 BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CONTENTS
2 Financial Highlights
4 Chairman‘s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review
8 Aviation
12 Materials Technology
15 Future strategy 
16 Financial Review
20 Our Portfolio
38 Board of Directors
40 Directors‘ Report
42 Corporate Social Responsibility
43 Directors‘ Corporate
Governance Report
49 Directors‘ Remuneration Report 
57 Independent Auditors‘ Report
58 Consolidated Income Statement
59 Consolidated  Balance Sheet
60 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
61 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
62 Accounting Policies
66 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
93 Independent Auditors‘ Report
94 Company Balance Sheet
95 Accounting Policies
97 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
102 Principal Subsidiary and
Associated Undertakings
103 Five Year Summary
104 Shareholder Information
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of
the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether
any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures
can provide absolute assurance in this area. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
This Annual Report is addressed to the members of BBA Group plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors accept or assume responsibility to any
person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the
production of this Annual Report under the requirements of the Companies Act
1985.  Sections of this Annual Report, including the Chairman's Statement,
Chief Executive's Review, Financial Review and Directors' Report, contain
forward-looking statements, including statements relating to: the expected
separation of Fiberweb; future demand and markets for the Group's products
and services; research and development relating to new products and
services; liquidity and capital resources; and implementation of
restructuring plans and efficiencies.  These forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on
circumstances that will or may occur in the future.  Accordingly, actual
results may differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking
statements as a result of a variety of factors, including: changes in
interest and exchange rates, commodity prices and other economic conditions;
negotiations with customers relating to renewal of contracts and future
volumes and prices; events affecting international security, including
global health issues and terrorism; changes in regulatory environment; and
the outcome of litigation.
The following paragraphs are relevant to the audit opinions
as found in the 2005 Annual Report on this website:  Leaders
in Aviation
Services
and Materials
Technology
BBA Group
  2. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Financial
Highlights
£m (other than percentages and per share amounts in pence) 2005 2004 change
Revenue
Continuing operations 1,510.8 1,373.8 10%
Underlying operating profit* 
Continuing operations 129.6 127.1 2%
Operating profit from continuing operations 81.3 98.5 (17)%
Underlying operating margin
Continuing operations 8.6% 9.3%
Net interest (21.4) (11.9)
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations 108.2 115.2 (6)%
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items (48.3) (28.6)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 59.9 86.6 (31)%
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 1.9 6.4 
Profit/(loss) on disposal after tax 21.5 (2.8)
Profit for the period 75.3 67.9 11%
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Before restructuring costs and non-recurring items 18.3p 19.7p (7)%
Unadjusted 15.9p 14.3p 11%
Continuing operations:
Before restructuring costs and non-recurring items 17.9p 18.3p (2)%
Unadjusted 11.0p 13.5p (19)%
Diluted
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Before restructuring costs and non-recurring items 18.1p 19.0p (5)%
Unadjusted 15.8p 14.0p 13%
Continuing operations:
Before restructuring costs and non-recurring items 17.7p 17.7p -%
Unadjusted 10.9p 13.2p (17)%
Dividends per ordinary share 11.8p 11.3p 4%
Cash generated by operations 183.7 145.4 26%
Free cash inflow** 86.3 60.0 44%
Net debt 527.1 511.6 
Gearing (net debt to shareholders’ funds) 72% 76%
Interest cover*** 6.1x 10.7x
* operating profit before restructuring costs and non-recurring items
** cash generated by operations plus dividends from associates, less tax, interest, preference dividends and net capital expenditure
*** underlying operating profit divided by the net interest charge
† basic earnings per share from continuing operations before restructuring costs and non-recurring items
†† underlying operating profit from continuing operations
The definitions as outlined above are consistently applied throughout the financial statements.
  3.
OPERATING PROFIT
††
£129.6m
EARNINGS PER
SHARE
†
17.9p
TURNOVER
£1,510.8m 4. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chairman’s
Statement
Financial Results
2005 continued to see strong revenue growth of 10 per cent for
the Group to £1.5 billion. This is reflected in the performance of
both our divisions. Underlying operating profits were up 2 per
cent to £130 million with 9 per cent growth in aviation offset
partially by a continued increase in raw material prices in
Fiberweb, our materials technology division. After restructuring
costs and non-recurring items, operating profit from continuing
operations for the year was £81 million. After preference share
conversion, and higher interest rates, particularly in the USA,
mitigated by a lower tax rate, we are able to report adjusted
earnings per share from continuing operations of 17.9 pence
[2004: 18.3 pence].
Acquisitions
During the year the Group continued its strategy to enhance
market position and global presence in Aviation Services and 
we invested £28 million in a number of bolt-on acquisitions and
£73 million in capital expenditure. Strategic disposals resulted 
in a cash inflow of £47 million.
Dividends 
Following the interim dividend of 3.5 pence, paid on 4 November
2005, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.3 pence
[2004: 7.95 pence] payable on 22 May 2006 to shareholders on
the register at 18 April 2006. This will result in total dividends
for 2005 of 11.8 pence [2004: 11.3 pence].
Board and People
We announced on 28 February 2006 that Roy McGlone had
stepped down as Group CEO by mutual agreement. Michael
Harper replaces him as interim CEO until a permanent
successor is appointed. Michael joined the Board as a non-
executive director in February 2005 and is the former Chief
Executive of Kidde Group plc.
We thank Roy for his contribution over 10 years, first as Finance
Director and then, from 2001, as Chief Executive. He has led the
Company successfully through some difficult times. However,
BBA is undergoing significant change and both the Board and
Roy believe the Company needs a different kind of leadership as
it separates Fiberweb and concentrates on Aviation Services. 
At senior management level, Daniel Dayan joined us as CEO of
BBA Fiberweb Division in June last year.
We extend our thanks to our 14,100 employees who make up 
the success of BBA. We are appreciative of their hard work 
and efforts.
Corporate Social Responsibility
BBA continues to take its role as a responsible corporate citizen
seriously. During 2005, our CSR Committee embarked on a
number of initiatives, including the assembly of CSR metrics for
our businesses, that will be used as guidance by our companies
on important issues such as workplace diversity and equal
employment opportunities. In addition, a detailed review of our
Group Legal Policies Manual was carried out during the year.
The policies contained in this Manual set the benchmark for
responsible and mandatory business conduct within the Group.
We are also proud of the efforts and support our companies and
its people gave to their communities that were affected by the
devastating hurricanes in 2005. Actions included matching
charitable donations and the contribution of products and
services in support of relief efforts in the Gulf Coast region.
In 2005, BBA repeated its participation in the Business in the
Community (BitC) Corporate Responsibility Index. As we begin to
reap the benefits of our various CSR initiatives and programmes,
we hope to see improved placement. Our fourth Annual CSR
report was published during the year and can be found on our
website at www.bbagroup.com.
Outlook
During the year we made an important announcement about the
future direction of the Group. As a Board we recognise that
having built two highly successful, but individual businesses, the
time has come when we believe shareholders’ best interests will
be served by focusing the future of each of our divisions
independently. We look forward to the next year with continued
confidence.
Roberto Quarta Chairman  Chief
Executive’s
Review
6. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
  7.
BBA Group enters 2006 with two
strong businesses, Aviation Services
and Fiberweb, each with market
leading positions and strong 
growth potential. 
In November 2005, the Board decided
to separate the businesses by the sale
of Fiberweb or via demerger, a
strategy which will allow them the
freedom to pursue their own separate
strategies in their separate markets.
AVIATION
SERVICES
REVENUES
£892m
FIBERWEB
REVENUES
£619m 8. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Review
Aviation
Strategy
The primary markets we currently serve are:
• Airport Services
• Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul
Our strategy is focused on building a balanced portfolio 
of aviation business, concentrating on airport services 
and aftermarket businesses with good returns and 
strong cash flows.
Since 2001, in constant currencies, sales have grown from
£649 million to £892 million, a compound annual growth 
rate of 8 per cent of which roughly half has been organic and 
half through acquisitions funded through free cash flows.
During this period, our focus has remained on services and
aftermarket support. This growth has come against a
backdrop of wars, SARS, record oil prices, turmoil in aviation
markets and economic slowdowns, which is a reflection of the
resilience and potential of the business.
Performance
The market for both business and commercial aviation
continues to grow. Sales for the year increased by 9 per cent
to £892 million. Whilst fuel costs have risen to record levels
during the year, the impact on our profits has been minimal
as we do not take ownership of fuel in commercial aviation,
and in business aviation increases have been passed through
our retail pricing. 
Airport Services
Airport Services saw sales growth of 23 per cent to £515
million, underlying operating profits up by 20 per cent to 
£60 million. Underlying operating margins were slightly 
lower at 11.7 per cent down from 11.9 per cent.
Signature Flight Support is the world’s largest and leading
FBO network and service provider to business aviation with 
80 locations at airports worldwide. In the last two years, we
have doubled our position outside North America from 17 to
34 bases. 
AIRPORT 
SERVICES
02 03 04 05
0
200
400
600
800
1000
AVIATION REVENUES AT
CONSTANT CURRENCY AIRPORT
SERVICES
£515m
AVIATION
£892m
MAINTENANCE
REPAIR AND
OVERHAUL
£377m 10. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Review
During the year we acquired a total of five FBO’s for a total of 
£17 million and those acquisitions made in 2004 have been
successfully integrated. Signature continued to grow its
network with acquisitions in Cape Town, Paris Le Bourget,
Long Beach and Oxnard California, with investment in further
capacity at London Luton. Signature now has 80 locations
worldwide of which 34 are now outside North America,
making us the largest and only truly international business
aviation support chain in the world. A three-year agreement
to provide advertising space in selected locations was signed
with Clear Channel during the year.
Our strategy is to grow Signature and our business aviation
interests aggressively both in North America and the rest of
the world.
ASIG is the leading fueller of commercial aircraft in the USA
and the UK, and overall the world's fourth largest independent
provider of support services for fuelling, ground handling, 
de-icing, cargo and other related services. It operates in 65
cities worldwide, including 44 of the world's top 100 airports.
Our acquisitions of AGI and Boker in 2004 were successfully
integrated and have performed to plan since acquisition. New
contracts were won with Disney, Northwest Airlines, All
Nippon, Cathay Pacific and Singapore Airlines. Coronet
Aviation Services was purchased in September 2005 providing
ASIG with a good initial position in executive lounge services
at London Heathrow.
In the commercial aviation market we see opportunities to
grow geographically and through expansion of product
offerings in niche areas where we can see good returns.
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul
We are the industry's leading independent turbine engine
repair and overhaul provider, focused on business and
regional jet engines, with growing positions in military and
industrial platforms. We will continue to focus on these areas
in the near term whilst looking for geographic growth
opportunities.
In Component Repair, Overhaul and Distribution, we have a
number of speciality companies with high returns. We will be
looking to grow this sector via further acquisitions.
  11.
Acquisitions
and New
Business
Wins
APPH
$7m contract to design
and develop landing
gear system for Korean
military
Sales were down from £402 million to £377 million reflecting
the relocation of the Millville, New Jersey sites and lower
revenues from Spey engines, offset by growth in the newer
TFE731 programme. Underlying operating profits were £34
million (2004: £37 million) and underlying operating margins
were unchanged at 9.1 per cent (2004: 9.1 per cent).
At Dallas Airmotive, the Pratt & Witney PW300 and 500
programmes, for which we reported winning full authorisations
last year, started to build in the second half. In the UK, H&S
Aviation received approval to overhaul the Pratt & Witney
JT15D in Europe. 
Our speciality components businesses, ITS and Barrett, 
saw growth in sales and margins and we acquired
International Governor Service (IGS) in Colorado, specialising
in turbine engine fuel system accessories, which will provide
around US$ 10 million incremental sales on a full year basis.
At APPH, our hydraulics and landing gear business in the 
UK, demand increased with the upturn in the aerospace cycle.
In the first quarter of 2006 APPH acquired Arnoni Aviation
Services Inc., based in Houston, Texas, for a consideration 
of up to £4 million. This repair and overhaul and spares
distribution company specialises in support for a number of
aircraft including Raytheon HS125 Hawker Series. Sales are
expected to be £7 million in 2006. In December, APPH was
awarded the contract to design and develop the landing gear
system for the Korean Military Helicopter Programme with a
value of $7 million over six years with further potential for
long term revenues for logistic support and repair and
overhaul.
In Oxford Airport (UK) training demand improved and the
airport is seeing more business jet activity where we are
investing in increasing hangar capacity and enhancing the
runway.
Finally, Becorit, our railway brake equipment company in
Germany, which is included in this business grouping, had
another satisfactory year.
Dallas Airmotive
New contracts from US
Air Force and Netjets
ASIG 
Coronet Aviation
Services purchased 12. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Review
Materials Technology
Strategy
The strategy for Materials Technology is:
• To grow differentiated, tailored non-woven solutions in 
attractive industrial sectors, such as construction, 
filtration and graphic arts
• To expand in fast growing markets in Asia and 
Latin America
• To further develop our leading customer relationships 
in large, growing hygiene markets
• To continue to improve productivity, particularly in 
North America.
Performance
In 2005, Materials Technology, under the brand name
'Fiberweb', increased sales by 12 per cent to £619 million.
Underlying operating profit declined by £5 million to £44
million due to the continued increase in raw material input
prices which adversely impacted operating profits by £12
million compared to 2004. Operating cash flow was good
again at £44 million despite the cash cost incurred in closing
the Toronto plant and relocating its two production lines to
existing plants in Mexico and Germany.
Midway through the year a new management team, led by
Daniel Dayan, joined the business and after reaffirming the
strategic direction of the business has accelarated the
implementation of cost reduction measures and investment in
product innovation.
At the end of the first half we sold our 40 per cent investment
in Finotech, based in Germany, to Clopay, our joint venture
partner. Sale proceeds were £46 million and this resulted in a
gain to the Group of £24 million.
Following high raw material costs at the start of the year
there was some reduction by the half year and at the time of
our interim announcement there was an expectation that
prices could ease further through to the year end. In the
event, the dual impact of rapidly rising oil prices and
hurricane damage to the petrochemicals capacity on the US
Gulf coast, led to tight supply conditions and record prices
during the fourth quarter. 
£619m
02 03 04 05
0
200
400
600
800
1000
MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY
REVENUES AT 
CONSTANT CURRENCY
MATERIALS
TECHNOLOGY INVESTING 
FOR 
GROWTH
STRATEGY
CONTINUE 
TO IMPROVE
PRODUCTIVITY 
FURTHER 
DEVELOP OUR
CUSTOMER
RELATIONSHIPS
IN HYGIENE 
MARKET
TO EXPAND IN
FAST GROWING
MARKETS
TO GROW
DIFFERENTIATED,
TAILORED 
NON-WOVEN
SOLUTIONS  14. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Review
Since the end of 2005, prices have eased somewhat although
the outlook for the rest of the year remains uncertain. We
continue to focus on a wide range of productivity initiatives 
to optimise yields and improve recycling. 
In North America the closure of our Toronto site and the
reconditioning and relocation of two production lines to
Mexico and Berlin is on schedule to be completed in the
summer of 2006. Full year savings are expected to be in the
region of £5 million with cash pay back expected within three
years. The Mexican site at Queretaro will enable Fiberweb 
to consolidate and expand in the Americas region, and the
resulting 40 per cent capacity increase in Berlin will allow
Fiberweb to exploit further rapid growth in construction
markets in Eastern Europe. 
In the Industrial business, significant progress has been 
made in accelerating new product development. During 2005,
Fiberweb housewrap sales grew by 20 per cent, the sixth
straight year of volume and value growth. The launches of
products capable of protecting property by withstanding
hurricane-force winds have generated significant interest 
in coastal areas of the US. In pool and spa filtration, where
Fiberweb is the market leader, the launch of a biocide
impregnated filter resulted from a real focus on the needs
and concerns of the consumer. Further sales and marketing
investment has been initiated in Brazil to accelerate the
growth of industrial products in South America, and
developing growth plans for industrial segments in Europe
and Asia are priorities for 2006.
In the Hygiene business the focus has been on cost reduction
and improving customer relationships. The authorisation of 
a major new spunbond line in Sweden, expected to be
commissioned in early 2007, will increase quality and
productivity in the European market. A number of
collaborative development programmes with customers 
have demonstrated that product development continues to 
be a core strength and differentiator. 
New Product
Development
FIBERWEB
Production to start in
2007 at the world’s
largest spunbound
production line in
Sweden 15.
Future Group Strategy
In November last year, we announced our intention to
separate Fiberweb from BBA. Over the last few years both
businesses have been grown, both organically and by
acquisition, so that each of them have achieved the critical
mass that now allows them to stand alone as strong,
independent companies in their own right. Each business has
an excellent market position, with leadership in several areas,
and they are increasingly international in their presence. We
believe both businesses have a strong sense of focus and are
well positioned to grow further, acting as consolidators in
their markets. These are the reasons why we have decided
that it is the correct time to separate Fiberweb from the BBA
Group and we are convinced that this will deliver more
shareholder value in the long-term.
As we proceed with the separation of Fiberweb we are also
accelerating the efforts to improve our operational
performance, particulary in our Fiberweb North American
Hygiene and our Aviation Engine Repair businesses. The
growth of our Aviation businesses both organically and by
acquisition remains a priority.
We therefore look forward to a challenging year with
confidence.
Michael Harper 
Chief Executive
  Financial
Review
Revenue for continuing operations increased by 10 per cent
to £1,510.8 million (2004: £1,373.8 million). Underlying
operating profits increased by 2 per cent to £129.6 million
after absorbing additional raw material costs in Materials
Technology of £12 million. Underlying operating margins
reduced to 8.6 per cent due, in particular, to increased raw
material costs in Fiberweb and higher fuel costs in our
Aviation businesses which together reduced margins by just
over 1 percentage point. After restructuring costs and non-
recurring items of £48.3 million (2004: £28.6 million),
operating profits from continuing operations were
£81.3 million (2004: £98.5 million).
The Group produced underlying profit before tax from
continuing operations of £108.2 million (2004: £115.2 million)
with higher interest costs (principally due to US$ interest
rates) which increased from £11.9 million in 2004 to £21.4
million in 2005, the main reason for the reduction in headline
earnings. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing
operations were 17.9p (2004 18.3p). For the first time in many
years movement in exchange rates had little impact on the
comparison with the prior period with the average dollar rate
ending the year at $1.82 (2004: $1.83) and the euro was € 1.46
(2004: 1.47). Total profit for the period was £75.3 million
(£67.9 million) with unadjusted earnings per share of 15.9
pence, up 11 per cent on the prior period. 
Our free cash flow at £86.3 million recovered well in the second
half of the year as anticipated and was some 40 per cent higher
than the prior period (2004: £60.0 million). The improvement
against the prior period reflected a significantly improved
working capital position (2005: inflow £14.2 million) (2004:
outflow £38.4 million) partially offset by higher capital
expenditure of £73.3 million (2004: £61.7 million). We invested
£28 million in acquisitions during the year to expand our
business aviation network and to add to our parts distribution
portfolio.
  17.
Revenue and Operating Profit by Division
Airport Services
Sales grew by 23 per cent to £514.4 million, of which increased
fuel prices contributed 8 per cent. Underlying operating profits
increased to £60.0 million from £50.1 million in the prior year,
an increase of 20 per cent. Underlying operating margins were
slightly lower at 11.7 per cent (2004: 11.9 per cent) although the
increased fuel prices reduced underlying margins by 0.8 per
cent. Operating profits and margins were impacted in the second
half by a charge of £2 million in respect of a bad debt reserve for
North West Airlines at ASIG, which went into Chapter 11 in
September 2005, and by the settlement of a legal claim. 
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul
Sales reduced by 6 per cent to £377.1 million (2004: £401.6
million) with lower demand for Spey/Tay overhauls and the
impact of exchange rates at our UK businesses being offset by
increased demand for TFE731 and a strong performance by our
parts distribution businesses. Underlying operating profits were
£34.4 million (2004: £36.6 million) and underlying operating
margins were unchanged at 9.1 per cent. As we enter 2006 we
expect market conditions to improve and we are confident that
results should show an improvement over 2005. 
Materials Technology
Materials Technology revenue increased 12 per cent to £619.3
million, of which 4 per cent was due to the impact of higher raw
material costs being passed on to customers. Underlying
operating profits reduced by £4.8 million to £43.8 million (2004:
£48.6 million - restated for the disposal of Finotech) and
underlying operating margins were 7.1 per cent (2004: 8.8 per
cent). Significantly increased raw material costs, net of recovery
through price increases, reduced underlying profits by
approximately £12 million compared to the prior period. 
Exchange Rates
A significant proportion of BBA's earnings are generated in
US dollars and in euros. The movements in these exchange
rates since 2002 are shown in the table below:
2002 2003 2004 2005
US Dollars 1.50 1.64 1.83 1.82
Euros 1.59 1.45 1.47 1.46
2005 is the first year for some time that the dollar has not
weakened against sterling and distorted the comparison with the
prior year.
Restructuring Costs and Non-Recurring Items
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items amounted to £48.3
million (2004: £28.6 million). Further details of these amounts
can be found in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Disposal of Businesses
During the period the Group disposed of its 40 per cent interest
in Finotech, a Non-Wovens joint venture in Germany. The Group
also completed the closure of a loss-making Fiberweb
distribution business in Japan. Before their closure or disposal
these operations produced profit after tax of £1.9 million (2004:
£6.4 million), which have been classified as discontinued
operations. The net profit associated with the disposals or
closure amounted to a profit of £21.5 million (Finotech profit
£23.7 million) compared to a loss of £2.8 million in the prior
period. 18. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Financial
Review
Acquisitions 
The Group acquired six businesses during the year for a total
consideration of £28.0 million. We acquired a number of bases to
further expand our business aviation network and also added
IGS (International Governor Services) to our portfolio of parts
distribution businesses. These businesses, which are detailed in
the Directors' report, are expected to contribute approximately
£25 million of turnover in 2006 and will generate operating
margins of more than 10 per cent. The fair market value of the
acquisitions was £6.8 million, debt acquired £nil, and the
resulting goodwill was £23.4 million.
Tax and Dividends
The effective tax rate was 22 per cent of the profit before
goodwill amortisation and all exceptional items (2004: 25 per
cent). The reduction in the rate principally reflects the release
of a provision for a potential tax exposure in the UK, which was
no longer required as the matter was cleared with the tax
authorities during the year. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.3 pence
bringing the dividend for the year to 11.8 pence (2004: 11.3
pence), an increase of 4 per cent. The dividend is covered 1.5
times by adjusted basic earnings per share (2004: 1.6 times). 
Pensions
The overall value of our scheme assets has grown to £500 million
(2004: £435 million), whilst liabilities have also risen to £565
million (2004: £505 million). This has resulted in a net deficit of
£65 million at the end of the year compared to £70 million at the
end of 2004. The deficit can be broken down between UK
schemes £15 million and overseas schemes £50 million.
Following an actuarial valuation of the UK schemes in 2004,
the company made a special contribution of £5 million during
2005 and a further contribution of £5 million will be made in
2006, after which the situation will be reviewed again.
The overseas deficit includes unfunded schemes valued at 
£27.3 million.
Cash Flow and Debt
The Group produced positive free cash flow of £86.3 million
(2004: £60 million) with the increase over the prior year
principally reflecting an improvement in the Group’s 
working capital position.
Capital expenditure increased to £73.3 million (2004: £61.7
million) and represents 1.0 times depreciation (2004: 0.8 times).
Aviation expenditure amounted to £40.5 million (2004: £36.4
million) and Materials £32.8 million (2004: £25.3 million). For
2006 we expect capital expenditure to increase to 1.2 times
depreciation due to the authorisation of new non-wovens lines
in both Sweden and Italy.
A significant proportion of our debt is held in US dollars as a
hedge against our US dollar assets. The strengthening of the
US dollar against sterling has had a significant impact on the
translated value of our dollar debt increasing. A profile by
currency is shown in the table below:
(DEBT)/CASH PROFILE BY CURRENCY 2005 2004 
Sterling 503 314 
US Dollars (810) (586) 
Euros (183) (204)
Others (37) (36) 
Total (527) (512) 19.
The Group currently has a syndicated multi-currency loan for
£950 million which will expire in 2009. We currently have
headroom of approximately £200 million and have the flexibility
to capitalise on investment opportunities as they arise.
The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is to only have
deposits with pre-approved banks with credit ratings of A1/P1
and with limits on the amount deposited with each institution
dependent on their credit rating. Deposits are generally for
short-term maturity (less than three months).
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies 
The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and
liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures.
The management of these risks is performed by a central
Treasury department that reports directly to the Group Finance
Director and operates according to objectives, policies and
authorities approved by the Board. The overall policy objective is
to use financial instruments to manage financial risks arising
from the underlying business activities and therefore the Group
does not undertake speculative transactions for which there is
no underlying financial exposure.
Funding and liquidity: The Group's operations are financed by
a combination of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
Borrowings are generally raised at Group level from banks and
then lent on to operating subsidiaries on commercial terms. 
The Group maintains sufficient available committed borrowing
facilities to meet any forecasted funding requirements. 
At the end of 2005 the Group had committed bank facilities of
£950 million of which £374 million was undrawn. In addition, the
Group maintains uncommitted facilities for daily working capital
fluctuation purposes. At the end of 2005 the undrawn amount of
these uncommitted facilities totalled £28 million.
Interest rate risk management: The interest rate exposure
arising from the Group's borrowing and deposit activity is
managed by using a combination of fixed and variable rate debt
instruments and interest rate swaps. The Group's policy with
respect to interest rate is to fix portions of debt for varying
periods based upon our debt maturity profile and an assessment
of interest rate trends. At the end of 2005 approximately 30 per
cent of the Group's borrowings were fixed at weighted average
interest rates of 4.4 per cent for varying terms up to three years.
Currency risk management: The Group's policy is to hedge
all significant transactional currency exposures through the use
of forward currency contracts. It is also the Group's policy to
hedge overseas capital employed, including recognised goodwill,
between 50 and 85 per cent by means of currency loans and
currency swaps.
International Financial Reporting Standards
This is the first annual report to be produced in accordance with
IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). A summary
of the main differences between UK GAAP and the new standards
can be found in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
  OUR PORTFOLIO
  WE GROW THE
BUSINESSES 
WE OWN AND 
ARE COMMITTED 
TO DELIVERING 
VALUE. SIGNATURE
Unrivalled business aviation
services network in
80 locations worldwide
80
        24.
SIGNATURE
Our strategy is to grow Signature
and our business aviation interests
aggressively both in North America
and the rest of the world
GROW
     ASIG
ASIG is the leading fueller 
of commercial aircraft in 
the USA and the UK
REFUEL
    ASIG
New cargo services 
contracts were won with 
Disney, Northwest Airlines, 
All Nippon, Cathay Pacific 
and Singapore Airlines
LOAD
     DALLAS AIRMOTIVE
We are the industry's leading
independent turbine engine repair
and overhaul provider 
SERVICE
    DALLAS AIRMOTIVE
New contracts were 
also won from the 
US Air Force and NetJets
MAINTAIN
    BBA FIBERWEB
In 2006 we aim to continue 
growing higher return, 
value-added product lines
RESPOND
    BBA FIBERWEB
We are looking to further develop 
our leading customer relationships in 
large, growing hygiene markets
DEVELOP
    BBA FIBERWEB
Our strategy is to expand in fast 
growing markets such as 
Asia and Latin America
EXPAND
   CONTENTS
38 Board of Directors
40 Directors‘ Report
42 Corporate Social Responsibility
43 Directors‘ Corporate
Governance Report
49 Directors‘ Remuneration Report 
57 Independent Auditors‘ Report
58 Consolidated Income Statement
59 Consolidated  Balance Sheet
60 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
61 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
62 Accounting Policies
66 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
93 Independent Auditors‘ Report
94 Company Balance Sheet
95 Accounting Policies
97 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
102 Principal Subsidiary and
Associated Undertakings
103 Five Year Summary
104 Shareholder Information
   38. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
1. ROBERTO QUARTA (56)
Non-executive Director, Chairman
He was appointed Chairman in March
2001. He is a principal in Clayton, Dubilier
& Rice, a private equity firm. From 1993
until March 2001 he was Group Chief
Executive of BBA Group plc. He is the
chairman of Italtel SpA and Rexel SA, and
a non-executive director of BAE Systems
plc and Azure Dynamics Corporation, a
Canadian listed company. He is also a
Trustee of the College of the Holy Cross.
2. MICHAEL HARPER (61)
Chief Executive
He was appointed Chief Executive with
effect from 27 February 2006. He joined
the Board in February 2005 as a
non-executive director . An engineer by
training, he was a director of Williams plc
and on the demerger in 2000 became
Chief Executive of Kidde plc. He is
Chairman of Vitec Group plc and
a non-executive director of UMECO plc,
Ricardo plc and Catlin Group Limited.
3. ANDREW WOOD (54)
Group Finance Director
He was appointed to the Board as Group
Finance Director in January 2001. A
chartered management accountant, he
was formerly Group Finance Director of
Racal Electronics plc.
4. BRUCE VAN ALLEN (50)
President and CEO, 
BBA Aviation Services
He was appointed to the Board in May
2002. He joined Signature in 1993 and
has held various posts since that date,
including most recently, CEO of BBA
Aviation North America. 
5. BOB PHILLIPS (67)
Non-executive Director
He was appointed to the Board in May
2000. He is a managing director of
The Clarecastle Group, a New York
marketing firm. He is also a Senior
Advisor at Peter J. Solomon Company,
a New York independent investment
advisory firm. He was a board director
of Unilever plc and Chairman of Unilever’s
North American Committee, positions
from which he retired in May 2000.
6. JOHN ROQUES (67)
Non-executive Director, 
Chairman, Audit Committee
He was appointed to the Board in January
1999. He is Chairman of Portman Building
Society, a non-executive director of Premier
Farnell plc and Henderson Group plc.
He was formerly a partner at Deloitte &
Touche, retiring in 1999 as Senior Partner .
7. DAVID ROUGH (55)
Non-executive Director,
Senior Independent Director
He was appointed to the Board in March
1998. He is also a non-executive director
of Emap plc, Land Securities plc, Mithras
Trust, Xstrata Group plc and Brown,
Shipley & Co. Ltd. For ten years, until
December 2001, he was Group Director,
Investments at Legal & General plc.
8. RICHARD STILLWELL (55)
Non-executive Director, 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
He was appointed to the Board in March
1998. A practising barrister, he is also
a non-executive director of Penna
Consulting plc. Until August 2000, he
was Executive Vice-President Industrial
Specialties at Imperial Chemical
Industries plc, where he had held
various posts since 1974.
Board of
Directors EXECUTIVE 
MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE 
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
MICHAEL HARPER 
Chief Executive
ANDREW WOOD 
Group Finance Director 
BRUCE VAN ALLEN 
President and CEO,
BBA Aviation Services
DAVID STANTON
Corporate Development Director
DANIEL DAYAN
CEO, BBA Fiberweb
SARAH SHAW 
Group Secretary
GREGORY MURRER
General Counsel – Americas
1 23
45 6
7 8 40. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Directors’
Report
The directors present their report together with the audited
financial statements of the Group for the year ended
31 December 2005.
Principal activities and business review
BBA Group plc is an international group of Aviation and
Materials Technology businesses. A review of the development
of the business of the Group during the year is set out on pages
6 to 15 which is included as part of this report.
Group results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the consolidated income
statement on page 58.
The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share
dividend for 2005 of 8.3p net per share on 22 May 2006
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on
18 April 2006, which together with the interim dividend paid on
4 November 2005 makes a total of 11.8p net per ordinary share
for the year (2004: 11.3p).
Acquisitions and disposals
1. Acquisitions
1.1 On 19 January 2005, the Group acquired the FBO business
of Harrods Aviation Limited for £0.7 million.
1.2 On 30 June 2005, the Group purchased International 
Governor Services Inc. for an immediate cash consideration
of $18 million (£10 million) and a deferred contingent cash
consideration of up to $10 million (£5.6 million).
1.3 On 10 August 2005, the Group acquired the entire share
capital of PrivatAir SA from TransAir Holding SAS at Le
Bourget Airport in Paris for US$12 million (£6.8 million).
1.4 On 24 August 2005, the Group acquired the entire share
capital of National Airways Corporation Cape Town
(Proprietary) Limited and Cape Aviation Business Centre
(CABC) at Cape Town International Airport in South Africa
from National Airways Corporation (NAC) for Rand 20
million (£1.7 million).
1.5 On 15 September 2005, the Group acquired the entire share
capital of Coronet Aviation Services Limited for £1 million.
1.6 On 1 November 2005, the Group acquired the stock of Long
Beach Million Air, Inc. for an immediate cash consideration
of $12 million (£7 million).
2. Disposals
2.1 On 13 April 2005, the Group disposed of its parts supply
business to CSE Parts Supply Limited for £1 million,
payable in two £0.5 million tranches, the first on completion
and the second within six months from completion.
2.2 On 30 June 2005, the Group disposed of its 40 per cent
minority interest in Finotech GmbH for an immediate cash
consideration of $76 million (£42.6 million) and a deferred
cash consideration of $6 million (£3.4 million). The total
consideration was received in the second half of the year.
The profit on disposal of Finotech amounted to £23.7 million.
The consideration relating to the various acquisitions and
disposals stated above reflects exchange rates at the date
of announcement of the relevant transaction.
  41.
Change in share capital
Changes in share capital are shown in note 23 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99
per cent of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2005 Annual
General Meeting and Class Meeting of the 6.75 per cent
convertible preference shareholders. The authority will expire
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May 2006
unless renewed. Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting. The Company was also given authority to purchase up
to 14.99 per cent of its 6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable
convertible preference shares at the 2005 Annual General
Meeting. The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary or
6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable convertible preference
shares during the year. All of the outstanding 6.75 per cent
cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares were
either converted into ordinary shares or redeemed in 2005.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase
ordinary shares are included with the Notice of Annual General
Meeting enclosed with this Report. 
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been notified under section 198 of the
Companies Act 1985 (as amended) of the following interests,
which represented 3 per cent or more of the existing issued
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 March 2006:
Number %
Standard Life Investments 28,939,522 5.95
Barclays PLC 16,684,209 3.43
AEGON UK plc 15,381,366 3.16
Legal & General Group plc 15,347,390 3.15
Research and development
The Group continues to devote considerable effort and resources
to research and development of new processes and products.
Costs are charged against income as incurred.
Market value of land and buildings
The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the
Group’s properties are not substantially different from the values
included in the Group’s financial statements.
Financial risk management and treasury policies
The financial risk management and treasury policies of the
Group are set out on page 19 and in note 19 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Board of directors
The current directors of the Company at the date of this report
appear on pages 38 and 39. Apart from Mr Harper who was
appointed to the Board on 23 February 2005, all directors held
office throughout the financial year under review.
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ interests in shares and share options are contained in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Suppliers payment policy
The Company and Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment
with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to
ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment
and to abide by the terms of the payment.
People and the environment
Set out on page 42 is the Directors’ Report on Corporate Social
Responsibility which is included as part of this report. 
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 17 May
2006. Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual
General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to be
considered and approved at the meeting. These are explained
in a letter from the Chairman which accompanies the Notice.
Charitable and political donations
Group donations to charities worldwide were £143,000 (2004:
£182,000) with UK charities receiving £4,000 (2004: £15,000).
No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of
the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board on 20 March 2006 and signed on its
behalf by:
Andrew Wood
Group Finance Director
  42. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Corporate
Social
Responsibility
During the first half of 2005 BBA Group Legal in conjunction
with the Group senior management team revisited each of the
policies contained in the BBA Group Legal Policies Manual.
This exercise is regularly undertaken to ensure that each policy
fully satisfies all relevant laws and regulations and accurately
reflects the philosophy of the Board and senior management on
the manner in which BBA Group’s business should be conducted.
As a consequence of this review, in June 2005 new policies
were issued and existing policies were updated or revised.
These include our policies on Competition Law Compliance, 
Data Protection and Privacy, Gifts, Business Courtesies, Gratuities
and Favours, Equal Opportunity and Anti-Harassment. In
addition, in August 2005 our Market Abuse and Inside
Information Policies were completed. Our existing policies on
Corporate Social Responsibility, Business Ethics and Disclosure
of Unethical Conduct issued in 2004, remain unchanged. The
Legal Policies Manual, including each of these policies, was
then released to all members of BBA Group senior management
as well as the management of BBA operating companies. We
regard this Manual as core guidance to our entire management
team on responsible, mandatory business conduct and require
that management certify their understanding, implementation
and compliance with the directives contained in the Manual.
Our CSR Steering Committee (“the Committee”) remained
active during 2005. In addition to continuing various 2004
projects, the Committee initiated the assembly of CSR metrics
for our businesses. Details of labour and employment data for
the Americas were completed in August 2005. This data includes
male to female ratios, employee ethnicity, employee grievances,
turnover and absenteeism. The same exercise will be undertaken
in 2006 for our European and Asian businesses. The Committee
intends to utilise the data as guidance for BBA Group companies
on matters such as workplace diversity and equal employment
opportunity. The Committee also worked with BBA Group
Internal Audit to enhance a CSR module that has been added 
to our internal audit protocol as a mechanism for verifying CSR
awareness, compliance and progress within our companies. As in
prior years BBA Group continued to participate in the Business
in the Community (BitC) Corporate Responsibility Index.
In April 2005 the BitC advised BBA Group that it placed 60
th
among the top 100 participants in the 2004 CSR Survey and 2
nd
within the Transport sector. Although we are pleased with the
Group’s continuing improvement as reflected in these results,
we have also embraced BitC’s suggestions for further
improvement. We are hopeful that our efforts during 2005 will
result in an even higher placement of the Group when the 2005
CSR Survey results are announced in early 2006. 
In 2005, several BBA sites and personnel experienced direct
losses as a result of hurricanes that caused unprecedented
damage in the United States. BBA Group is proud of the actions
taken by its companies and its employees to assist those who
were affected by these disasters, including matching charitable
donation programmes and the contribution of products and
services in the support of relief efforts in Gulf Coast region. 
  43.
Directors’ 
Corporate
Governance 
Report
1. Compliance
The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate
governance are maintained at BBA.
The Company applies the principles of corporate governance
set out in Section 1 of the revised Combined Code issued in
July 2003 through its own behaviour, by monitoring corporate
governance best practice and by adopting appropriate
recommendations of relevant bodies. 
The directors can confirm compliance throughout the year
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
except that bonuses and benefits in kind of certain executive
directors are historically pensionable. This is explained further
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 49.
The auditors’ report concerning the Company’s compliance
with the Combined Code appears on page 93.
2. The Board’s Role
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success
of the Company. Its role includes providing effective leadership
and setting the Group’s strategic aims. It assesses business
opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate controls are
in place to assess and manage risk. It is responsible for
reviewing management’s performance and oversees senior level
succession planning within the Group. The Board is responsible
for setting the Company’s values and standards, ensuring the
Company’s obligations to its shareholders are met. 
The full Board met on seven occasions during 2005 and
these meetings were attended by all the directors, except that
Ross McMillan was absent from two meetings prior to his date
of resignation from the Board on 23 February 2005. These
meetings concentrate on strategy, financial and business
performance. Additional meetings are called as required to deal
with specific matters. The agenda is set by the Chairman in
consultation with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance
Director and the Group Secretary. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision including approval of matters such as: 
• strategy and objectives;
• Group policies;
• annual budgets;
• dividends;
• acquisitions and disposals of businesses;
• expenditure over a certain limit;
• financial results; and
• appointments to the Board.
Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided
by management in accordance with delegated authorities
approved by the Board and Audit Committee. The schedule
of matters is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The Board’s policies and procedures are set out in a Directors’
File which is provided to all directors on appointment and which
is routinely updated. 
3. The Board and Independence 
At the date of this report, the Board comprises three executive
and five non-executive directors who contribute a wide range of
complementary skills and experience. A short biography of each
current director is set out on page 38.
The Board is headed by Roberto Quarta, who has been
Chairman since March 2001. During the year he was appointed
non-executive director of BAE Systems plc.
The Chief Executive is Michael Harper. During the year under
review, the Group Chief Executive was Roy McGlone. The Board’s
Senior Independent Director is David Rough. He is available to
shareholders if they have concerns that normal channels of
contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive would not resolve. 
John Roques’ appointment as a non-executive director was
renewed for a further period of three years with effect from
11 January 2005. His re-appointment was fully reviewed in the
light of the Board’s performance evaluation and additional Board
discussion took place. Michael Harper was appointed a non-
executive director of the Board on 23 February 2005 for a period
of three years. On 27 February 2006, he was appointed Chief
Executive following Roy McGlone’s resignation as a director on
the same date. The Board intends to renew Bob Phillips’
appointment as a non-executive director for a further term of
one year with effect from 5 May 2006. His intended
re-appointment was fully reviewed in the light of the Board’s
performance evaluation and additional Board discussion took
place.
Andrew Wood, Bob Phillips and Richard Stillwell retire
by rotation and intend to seek re-appointment at the
forthcoming AGM. 
The Board believes that Bob Phillips and Richard Stillwell
should be re-elected by shareholders as non-executive directors
because each continues to be effective and demonstrates
commitment to his role. The Board believes that each director
will continue to do so. 
The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors
are independent in character and judgement. As specified in the
revised Combined Code, such assessment is not required for a
serving Chairman. 
However, the Board believes that its Chairman,
Roberto Quarta, should be considered independent although
he was Group Chief Executive of the Company for a number of
years until 2001. The Board considers that there are substantial
benefits to having a Chairman who is familiar with the business
and that the Chairman has, throughout his period of office,
demonstrated his independence.
1. COMPLIANCE
2. THE BOARD’S ROLE 
3. THE BOARD AND INDEPENDENCE
4. CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE
5. BOARD APPOINTMENTS
6. INFORMATION AND 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
7. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
8. BOARD COMMITTEES
9. AUDIT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
(A) FINANCIAL REPORTING
(B) AUDIT COMMITTEE
(C) SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL 
CONTROL
10. SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
THIS SECTION ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTAINS INFORMATION ON THE FOLLOWING:
  44. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
During the year, the Chairman held a meeting at which only the
non-executive directors were present. In addition, the non-
executive directors met the Senior Independent Director without
the Chairman present. There were several other occasions
during the year when discussions between various directors
took place. 
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the
Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other
company. Executive directors may retain the fees from any such
directorship. During 2005, Roy McGlone was paid £33,500 in fees
in respect of his non-executive directorship of Aggreko plc.
4. Chairman and Group Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and this is reinforced by
a written statement of the division of responsibilities approved
by the Board. The Chairman, a non-executive director, is
primarily responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its
effectiveness. He is responsible for setting the Board agenda
and ensuring the directors receive information in an accurate,
clear and timely manner. He is responsible for promoting
effective decision-making, ensuring the performance of the
Board, its committees and individual directors are evaluated on
an annual basis and that appropriate Board training and
development occurs. The Group Chief Executive is responsible
for the development and implementation of Board strategy and
policy, the running of the Group’s business, ensuring that the
business activities are effectively communicated and promoted
within and outside the business and for building positive
relationships with the Company’s stakeholders. 
5. Board Appointments 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and
progressive refreshing of the Board. It believes that the
necessary arrangements to manage succession issues promptly
and effectively are in place. There is a formal and transparent
procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, the
prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination
Committee. The appointment process is initiated by the Board
and a selection procedure established to identify suitable
external search consultants for the vacancy. The process will
differ in its detail depending on whether the appointment is for
an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials will
remain the same. Following the appointment of a suitable
external consultant, details of the role and capabilities required
for the appointment will be prepared. The consultant then draws
up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist is created
through consultation amongst Committee members. The Board
as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the
appointment process. Meetings as appropriate are arranged with
Committee members and the Committee aims to ensure that
each Board member is given the opportunity to meet the final
candidates. The Nomination Committee will then meet to finalise
a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
The Board has a written framework for the induction of
new directors. This includes site visits, meetings with senior
management and advisers and the provision of corporate
documentation. A personal induction programme is prepared
for each new director tailored to the experience and needs of
the individual. Major shareholders will be offered the opportunity
of meeting new directors.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the
Board for an initial term of three years. This term is subject
to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory
performance of duties following the Board’s annual performance
evaluation. Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic
but may be made by mutual agreement. In addition, it is the
Company’s practice that all directors are subject to re-election
at least every three years. 
The fees of the non-executive directors, including the
Chairman, are determined by the Board as a whole on the
recommendation of the Group Chief Executive. No director is
involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees. Letters of
appointment for the non-executive directors are available to
review on request. 
6. Information and Professional Development 
The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors
receive accurate, timely and clear information with Board and
Committee papers being circulated in advance of the meeting.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of corporate
governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise
and receive appropriate briefings. For example, the
Remuneration Committee arranges an annual market review
from its independent external advisers whilst the Audit
Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical
matters by senior management and the external auditors. 
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman
maintains regular contact with the Group Chief Executive and
other directors to discuss specific issues. Senior management
from the Group’s Divisions present to the Board on a regular
basis and opportunities exist during the year for informal
contact. Board site visits are arranged, collectively and
individually, and non-executive directors are free to meet
members of the senior management team.
The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its
current directors, the identification of individual development
needs is best left to the individual director’s discretion. If any such
needs became evident through the annual performance evaluation,
the director would be encouraged to pursue the necessary
development. The Company will provide the necessary resources
for developing and updating the directors’ knowledge and skills. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure 
Directors’
Corporate
Governance
Report 45.
whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their
duties may take independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in
respect of legal actions against its directors.
7. Performance Evaluation
A formal appraisal process for the Board and its main Committees
is conducted annually. In 2005, the evaluation was conducted
internally on a confidential basis and was led by the Senior
Independent Director in conjunction with the Chairman. As in prior
years, the main body of the evaluation centred on a review of the
conduct of, and processes for, Board and Committee meetings,
corporate governance issues, overall performance and an
assessment of the contribution of individual directors. The
appraisal also included an assessment of information provided
to the Board and its Committees, including strategic, financial,
operational, corporate governance and CSR information. 
The Senior Independent Director reported the Board and
Committee evaluation outcomes to the Board, whilst directors
were individually briefed regarding their own performance. Overall,
the Board was satisfied with its performance and that of its
Committees. The review concluded that there had been significant
improvements in the Board’s processes, procedures and culture
since the first performance evaluation in 2003, with notable year
on year improvements. Individual director’s performance was
also agreed to be acceptable with each actively contributing to
the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
Overall, directors were satisfied with the level and quality
of information provided to them. Specific actions with which
management has been tasked following the evaluation include
increased depth in the strategy presentations made to the
Board.
8. Board Committees
The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination
Committee and an Audit Committee. Written terms of reference
for each Committee are available on request.
(a) Remuneration Committee
Composition 
During 2005, the Remuneration Committee comprised the
following independent non-executive directors: Richard Stillwell,
Chairman, Michael Harper (appointed 23 February 2005),
Bob Phillips, David Rough and John Roques. These directors
were in place at the time of determining remuneration for the 
year ended 31 December 2005, apart from Michael Harper.
Michael Harper ceased to be a member of the Remuneration
Committee on the date of his appointment as Chief Executive.
During 2005, the Remuneration Committee met on four occasions
and meetings were attended by all Committee members. 
The Chairman and the executive directors may attend these
meetings by invitation. 
Role
The Committee has two principal functions: first, making
recommendations to the Board on the framework and broad
policy on executive directors’ remuneration; and second,
determining on behalf of the Board the specific remuneration
package for each of the executive directors, including pension
rights and any compensation payments. 
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for
developing and monitoring a compensation framework for senior
executives in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive. During
the year it was agreed that Remuneration Committee should
also be responsible for reviewing the specific remuneration
package for certain senior executives as designated by the Board.
The detailed implementation of the compensation framework,
except as regards the executive directors and the designated
senior executives, is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee
appear in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
(b) Nomination Committee
Composition
The Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive
directors and two executive directors. During the year under
review, its composition was as follows: Roberto Quarta,
Chairman, Roy McGlone, David Rough, Andrew Wood and
Richard Stillwell. Roy McGlone ceased to be a member of the
Nomination Committee following his resignation as a director
on 27 February 2006 and was replaced by Michael Harper.
Other directors may attend Nomination Committee meetings
by invitation.
Role
The Nomination Committee meets as required. During 2005,
the Committee met on one occasion with attendance by all
Committee members. This was supplemented with individual
briefings and meetings. The principal role of the Committee is
to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment
of the Company’s executive and non-executive directors. It is
responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill
Board vacancies. In making appointments, the Committee
evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
on the Board and in the light of this evaluation considers
the capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a
non-executive appointment, the time available to fulfil the role.
Use is made of independent recruitment consultants and the
final appointment rests with the full Board. More information
on the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in ’Board
Appointments’ above. 
  46. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in paragraph
9(b) on page 46.
9. Audit and Accountability
(a) Financial Reporting
Directors’ responsibilities for the preparation of financial
statements
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In
preparing the financial statements the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for the system of internal control and
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern
In compliance with corporate governance requirements, the
directors consider that after a critical review of the Group’s 2006
budget and medium-term plans the Company and the Group
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the financial statements
have been prepared on a going concern basis.
(b) Audit Committee
Composition
During 2005, the Audit Committee comprised the five
independent non-executive directors as follows: John Roques,
Chairman, Michael Harper (appointed 23 February 2005), Bob
Phillips, Richard Stillwell and David Rough. Michael Harper
ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on the date of
his appointment as Chief Executive. 
The Chairman has relevant and recent financial experience and
a professional accountancy qualification as required by the
Smith Guidance. In addition the other Committee members all
have experience of corporate financial matters.
During 2005, the Audit Committee met on three occasions,
generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and
audit cycle. There was full attendance by all the Committee
members. The external auditors and Head of Group Internal
Audit regularly attend these meetings. The Chairman, Group
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial
Controller and Divisional Chief Executives also generally join at
least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation. The
Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any
director or the Company’s external auditors.
Role
The Committee may consider any matter that might have a
financial impact on the Group. However, its primary role is: first,
reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and the
internal audit work programme; and second, reviewing the
annual and interim reports before they are presented to the
Board. In addition, the Committee reviews the work of the Risk
Committee as described and assesses compliance with the
directors’ responsibility statement. The Committee also reviews
the Group’s Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy under which
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations
to the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its
external auditors. It is the policy of the Audit Committee to
review such appointment at least every five years. It discharges
its responsibilities through the review of written reports
circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these
reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and
management. At least once a year the Audit Committee holds a
confidential session without management present with each of
the external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit. 
Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness
Central to the Audit Committee’s work is the review and
monitoring of the external auditors’ independence and objectivity
and the effectiveness of the audit process. During the year the
Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service assessment
including a review of audit plans, the qualifications, expertise,
resources, effectiveness and independence of the external
auditors. The Audit Committee has also carried out a detailed
performance evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the
requirements of the Combined Code and the Smith best practice
guidelines. The Audit Committee has confirmed that during the
year it had formal and transparent arrangements for
considering financial reporting and internal control principles
and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external
auditors. 
Directors’
Corporate
Governance
Report 47.
A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence
is the Committee’s policy on the provision of non-audit services
by its external auditors. This policy is reviewed annually. It
prohibits the Group’s external auditors from carrying out certain
additional services for the Group including book-keeping,
internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial
systems design and implementation. Services which the external
auditors may be permitted to carry out include assurance
services such as reporting accountant work and tax services.
The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services
supplied by Deloitte & Touche LLP are compliance-related and
represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
As a matter of principle, the Group’s policy is not to use the
external auditors for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it appropriate or conflicts
arise, suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be asked
to tender. Only in exceptional and unusual circumstances will
this include the external auditors.
The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain
permitted services, which may exceed set financial limits. Non-
audit fees paid or due to the external auditors are regularly
reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services
currently provided by its external auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP
does not impair their independence or objectivity.
(c) Systems of Internal Control
Overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this
system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has
done so. The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing
process embedded in the Group’s businesses for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the
Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks. The
Group considers that it has adequate information to identify and
assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and
short-term value.
This process has been in place for the year ended 31
December 2005 and up to 28 February 2006 and the directors
can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness
in accordance with the internal control requirements of the
Combined Code throughout that period.
The Group’s internal system of control is reviewed annually
by the directors and accords with the Turnbull Guidance. The
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives. It can provide reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking account of costs
and benefits.
The key features of the Group’s internal control system are 
listed below.
1. The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance
Director and comprising senior executives, meets at least twice
a year to review and analyse how business risks are being
managed. These reviews assess the following categories of risk:
• business;
• financial;
• compliance; and
• operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
Central to this process is a detailed written self-assessment of
risks by company and division, which is reviewed by the internal
audit department. Functional risk assessments are also carried
out by the responsible executive. If significant control issues
arise between meetings, these can be brought to the attention
of senior executives at regularly scheduled meetings of the
Executive Management Committee. The outcome of the work of
the Risk Committee is reported to the Audit Committee, which in
turn reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
control on behalf of the Board. The Audit Committee receives a
report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director
detailing the work undertaken by the Risk Committee. Based on
these reviews, the Board recommends action to be taken by the
Group at both divisional and company levels to mitigate
identified risks and seize opportunities that may add value to
the Group.
2. An organisation structure is in place at both head office
and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for
operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company
secretarial and insurance functions. 
3. An internal audit function undertakes a programme of
reviews aligned to the risks existing in the Group’s businesses of
controls, risks and business processes. The role of internal audit
is defined in a ’Group Internal Audit Charter’ and this includes
its terms of reference, the standards which it adheres to, the
scope and coverage of its work and its reporting processes. The
Audit Committee receives a report from internal audit at each
meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and
effectiveness of controls by site, a summary of key issues, work
schedules and details of any action required. In accordance with
recent revisions to the Combined Code, the Audit Committee
regularly monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal
audit utilising outside specialists and self-assessment
techniques. 
4. A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies,
financial controls and reporting procedures applicable to all
reporting units. The Group accounting policies are aligned with
the latest International Accounting Standards and International
Financial Reporting Standards. 48. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
5. An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets
for each of the Group’s reporting units.
6. Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to
management which measure actual performance against
budget, together with forecasts of sales, profits and operating
cash for the next three months and to the end of the year.
A monthly report is provided to the Board highlighting key issues
and summarising the detailed financial information provided by
the operating units.
7. Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets,
authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by
the Group directors and by post-investment appraisals.
8. Defined procedures are laid down for investments,
currency and commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and
use of treasury products.
9. A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the
Group’s senior executives and their direct reports in relation to
acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee
contracts and treasury matters. This matrix is authorised by the
Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an
annual basis. Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed
as part of the internal audit process.
10. All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or
businesses are approved by the Board.
11. A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures
regarding the following: business ethics, business gifts and
gratuities, equal opportunities, competition law, legal policy,
external communications and share dealing. A bi-annual review
of compliance with such policies by Group companies is carried
out and the results communicated to the Risk Committee and
the Board. Senior executives are also required to confirm annual
compliance with certain policies. These Group policies are
complemented by divisional and company-led initiatives,
including community policies. These policies are supplemented
by a ’Disclosure of Unethical Conduct’ policy which includes a
24 hour ‘hotline’ available to all employees which is supported
by a formal investigation protocol and regular reporting to the
Audit Committee.
12. A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details
policies, standards and procedures which are applicable
throughout the Group. Further details are set out on page 42
under ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ and on our website.
Annual self-assessments are carried out at company level
against Group standards. A monthly report is prepared and
circulated to the Executive Management Committee on
environmental and safety matters within all Group companies
from the internal Group HSE function and external specialists.
In addition to a formal annual review, the Board receives regular
reports on HSE matters. Senior managers’ performance and
related financial incentives are tied in part to their success
against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
10. Shareholder Relations 
The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate
governance developments and the views of BBA’s major
shareholders. This is achieved through regular meetings during
the year between the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance
Director and major shareholders, which are then reported to the
Board as a whole. The Board also receives formal written
reports from its brokers regarding the views of its principal
shareholders following its preliminary and interim results
announcements and at other times as appropriate. The
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other non-executive
directors are available to meet with major shareholders and a
number of such meetings took place during the year. The Board
considers that its non-executive directors, including its Senior
Independent Director, David Rough, have a good level of
understanding of the issues and concerns of major
shareholders, as required by the revised Combined Code.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders,
fund managers and analysts takes place each year. The directors
seek to encourage a continuing dialogue. The Company
maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders
about directors’ remuneration in the same way as for other
matters. The Company’s AGM is used as an opportunity to
communicate with private investors. It is intended that notice
of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least
20 working days before the meeting. Roberto Quarta, as Chairman
of the Board and Nomination Committee, John Roques as
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Richard Stillwell as
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will answer questions,
as appropriate, at the AGM. The Senior Independent Director,
David Rough will also be available. Shareholders are given
the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the
AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures (for and
against and abstentions) on each resolution. The voting results
of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior
to the meeting are also made available on request and on the
Company’s website. The results of the AGM are also announced
to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
Approved by the Board on 20 March 2006 and signed on its
behalf by:
Andrew Wood 
Finance Director
Directors’
Corporate
Governance
Report 49.
This report covers the remuneration policy for directors and
includes specific disclosures relating to directors’ emoluments,
their shares and other interests and is being put to shareholders
at the forthcoming annual general meeting for an advisory vote. 
Throughout 2005 the Company complied with the provisions
of the July 2003 Combined Code (the “Code”) except in respect 
of the historical pensionability of bonuses and benefits in kind,
which is referred to in paragraph 3d below. This report includes
information which is required to be audited and this information
is stated as such in the relevant table.
1. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Although the Board considers itself ultimately responsible for
both the framework and the cost of executive remuneration, it
has delegated prime responsibility for executive remuneration 
to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board
consisting exclusively of independent non-executive directors,
details of which are set out on page 45. It is responsible for
determining executive directors’ remuneration and reviewing
proposals in respect of other senior executives. The Committee
also determines targets for performance related share schemes
operated by the Company and oversees any major changes in
employee benefit structures throughout the Group. Further
details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out
on page 45.
Inbucon Consulting, an independent remuneration-consulting
firm, is consulted by the Remuneration Committee and
management in respect of executive remuneration and share
schemes. Inbucon Consulting provides no other services to the
Company other than the calculation of total shareholder return
for the 2004 Share Plan.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Remuneration
Committee is independently advised by Sean O’Hare, Head of
Executive Compensation at KPMG LLP. 
The Committee also consults with the Chairman (who is not 
a member of the Remuneration Committee), the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Secretary in connection with its work. 
2. REMUNERATION POLICY
The Group’s remuneration policy is to ensure that executive
directors’ and other senior executives’ remuneration properly
reflects their duties and responsibilities and is sufficient to
attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management
collectively capable of delivering the goals of the Company. 
The Committee recognises the need to remain competitive in 
the different geographic areas in which the Company operates.
Furthermore, the Committee aims to ensure that incentive
schemes are in line with best practice and promote the interests
of shareholders. Executive directors’ remuneration is reviewed
at least annually whilst the Committee reviews its remuneration
policy on an ongoing basis. 
The main components of executive directors’ remuneration
are set out below. Total executive remuneration is structured to
deliver potential upper quartile rewards for superior performance
with a significant proportion of variable pay subject to stretching
performance targets. The Committee believes that the executive
directors’ remuneration packages contain a suitable balance of
directly performance related remuneration which links both the
short-term financial performance of the Group and long-term
shareholder returns with the executives’ total remuneration. 
During 2006, the Remuneration Committee intends to
undertake a detailed formal review to ensure that its policy and
all components of remuneration are appropriate to the
Company’s circumstances and prospects following the
separation of the Fiberweb Division from the Group.
a. Salary and Service Contracts
The policy of the Committee is to provide salaries that are
positioned around median when compared to salary data. While
salary is reviewed by reference to market conditions, financial
and individual performance, the Committee would not regard
this element of remuneration as directly performance related. 
In addition to basic salary, executive directors receive traditional
benefits in kind, principally a company car or car allowance,
private medical insurance and death in service benefits. 
The policy of the Committee is to make new executive
director appointments with a rolling service agreement which
can be terminated by the Company on giving 12 months’ notice.
b. Bonus 
Annual cash bonuses for executive directors and senior
management are based on financial performance and personal
objectives which are set annually. Currently, approximately 
75 per cent of the maximum bonus is based on financial objectives.
More details of the bonus arrangements are set out below.
c. Long-Term Incentives
The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant
element of executive directors’ remuneration should be linked 
to performance related long-term incentives. The Company’s
schemes have been developed to reflect market practice and
provide long-term management focus and motivation. The
Committee has also recognised the need for flexibility in this
area to allow them to respond to changing market practices 
and different geographic norms. 
As part of its strategy to align shareholders’ and directors’
interests, the Remuneration Committee will expect all executive
directors to build and maintain a holding of shares with a value
at least equal to their base salary. 
d. Pension Provision
Pension provision for the executive directors varies and reflects
differing UK and US practice. Further details are set out on 
page 55. The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the impact
of the changes to the tax treatment of UK pensions due to take
effect in April on current arrangements for UK based employees,
including the executive directors. Details of the pensions policy
Directors’
Remuneration
Report 50. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
and new arrangements for UK executives are set out on page 55.
The intention is that the new arrangements will not result in an
increase in the overall costs to the Company. 
3. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION: DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
a. Salary and Service Contracts
Base salaries are reviewed annually by reference to comparator
groups selected on the basis of comparable size, geographic
spread and business focus. Individual salary decisions take into
account personal contribution, business performance and the
level of pay awards elsewhere in the Group. Following a review
at the end of 2005, the Remuneration Committee approved a
base salary increase of 3.5 per cent for each of the executive
directors with effect from 1 January 2006.
Each executive director who served during the year has a
12 month notice period under his contract of employment. 
R V McGlone contract dated 21 February 1996
A R Wood contract dated 13 February 2001
B Van Allen contract dated 1 January 2004
Mr McMillan, who resigned from the Board in February 2005,
also had a 12 month notice period under his contract dated
1 January 2004.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee
will, within legal constraints, determine the approach to be
taken according to the circumstances of each individual case,
taking account of the departing director’s obligation to mitigate
his loss. In certain circumstances, and except for termination
for non-performance, the executive directors may receive
compensation upon early termination of a contract which could
amount to up to one year’s remuneration based on basic salary,
bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice
period. Mr Van Allen is required to give 12 months’ notice and
Mr Wood 6 months’ notice of termination of their service
agreements.
Table 1 (page 53) sets out details of the executive directors’
salary and non-executive directors’ fees.
b. Bonus
Bonus payments made in respect of 2005 for Mr McGlone and
Mr Wood were calculated on the basis of the Group’s adjusted
earnings per share, Group free cash flow and the achievement of
measurable personal objectives. Mr Van Allen’s bonus reflects
his operational responsibility for the Aviation Services business.
His bonus arrangement for 2005 was based on the achievement
of budgeted operating profit, operating cashflow for the Aviation
Services Division, together with Group adjusted earnings per 
share and the achievement of measurable personal objectives.
For all executive directors, appropriate performance targets and
personal objectives were approved by the Committee at the start
of the financial year for which the bonus was payable. The
performance measures were chosen by the Committee because
each measure was a factor over which the individual had a direct
impact and each of the measures are collectively good indicators
of corporate performance that should link to long-term
shareholder reward.
The bonus was expressed as a percentage of salary and the
potential payout ranged from zero to a maximum of 65 per cent
of salary. In a year where budgeted financial targets are met this
would typically result in a payment of 27.5 per cent of basic
salary. Approximately 75 per cent of the bonus is based on
financial objectives, the remainder on measurable personal
objectives. The Committee retains discretion to reflect
exceptional circumstances by varying bonuses.
Table 1 (page 53) includes details of annual bonus payments
made in respect of 2005.
c. Share Scheme Incentives
In April 2004, shareholders approved the BBA Group 2004 Long-
Term Incentive Plan which replaces the previous BBA Group
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share
Option Scheme and the 1995 Share Appreciation Rights Plan.
Details of these plans are set out below.
BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ‘2004 Plan’)
allows the awards of options, conditional shares and matching
shares. The maximum number of options which an executive
may be granted in any year is limited to three times basic salary,
or four times basic salary if the Remuneration Committee
determines that an executive will not receive a conditional share
award in that year. Conditional awards of shares are limited to
one times the executive’s basic salary or two times basic salary
if the Remuneration Committee determines that the executive
will not be granted options in that year. Awards made to
executive directors in 2005 were limited to one times basic
salary for conditional awards and two times basic salary for
options. The Remuneration Committee consider the award levels
appropriate and in line with its policy to reward superior
performance with potential upper quartile remuneration.
The maximum number of shares in respect of which a
participant may be made matching awards in any year will be
limited to 50 per cent of the number of shares purchased with
his or her own money. Each executive may purchase shares to a
value not exceeding his or her gross annual bonus, subject to a
minimum of 25 per cent of net amount. The Plan rules also
permit matching on a net to gross basis. 
Directors’
Remuneration
Report 51.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the maximum
award levels are not excessive and are in line with current
market practice. When making awards, the Remuneration
Committee will take prevailing remuneration practice into
account. 
Options granted in 2005 under the 2004 Plan are subject to
the following performance conditions, which will be measured
from the financial year ending just prior to the grant over a three
year period:
Average EPS growth Proportion of options
above inflation exercisable
7% or more per annum 100%
3 to 7% per annum Pro rata between 33% and 100%
3% per annum 33%
Less than 3% per annum Nil
Options will lapse if performance conditions are not satisfied
and there will be no re-testing. In line with performance
conditions under earlier Company share option schemes, the
external auditors will perform certain agreed upon procedures
on the earnings per share calculation. The Remuneration
Committee will also seek external advice with regard to the
approach to adopt to take account of the move to International
Accounting Standards and the effect this has on earnings per
share based performance conditions and will endeavour to
ensure that performance is measured on a consistent basis.
Conditional shares will vest and be released to executives at
the end of a three year period if the Company’s total shareholder
return against a comparator group of companies consisting of
all of the FTSE 350 listed companies in the industrial
transportation, travel and leisure, chemicals and aerospace and
defence sectors is met.
Awards made in 2005 are subject to the following performance
conditions:
TSR ranking in Proportion of shares vesting
comparator group
Upper quartile 100%
Median to upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100%
Median 25%
Below Median Nil
If median position is not achieved, the whole award will lapse
and there will be no retesting. In line with performance
conditions under previous conditional awards, total shareholder
return will be calculated by an independent remuneration-
consulting firm. The vesting of matching awards is not
dependent on performance conditions. 
The Committee believes that the two performance measures
chosen for its incentive schemes – adjusted earnings per share
growth and comparative total shareholder return – each
represent a reasonable long-term indication of the financial
success of the Company. They are also measures that are
acceptable to the majority of the investors in the Company.
The performance measures in respect of the share incentive
schemes will be reviewed in 2006 as part of the detailed review
referred to on page 49.
The comparator group in respect of the 2005 award of
conditional shares is as follows:
Comparator Group 2005 Awards
Arriva Go-Ahead Group
Associated British Ports Holdings Imperial Chemical Industries 
Avis Europe Johnson Matthey
BAA Meggitt
BAE Systems Mersey Docks & Harbour Co
BBA Group National Express Group
BOC Group Northgate
British Airways Penninsular & Oriental Steam 
British Vita Navigation Company
Cobham Rolls-Royce Group 
Croda International Smith Group
EasyJet Stagecoach Group
Exel Ultra Electronics Holdings
FirstGroup VT Group
Forth Ports Yule Catto & Co
The Committee will be considering the composition of the
comparator group in respect of awards to be made in 2006.
Details of awards made to the Executive Directors under the
2004 Plan during the year are set out in Tables 3 and 4.
Share Option Schemes
All executive options awarded by the Company prior to 2005 have
been made under the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share Option
Scheme, which expired in April 2004. All outstanding options
granted under the scheme are subject to performance
conditions. Prior to March 2002, the BBA Group 1995 Executive
Share Appreciation Rights Plan was used to facilitate the grant
of options to US executives on the same basis as the 1994
Executive Share Option Scheme.
Between 1997 and 2000, the Executive Directors did not
receive options under the Company’s executive share option
schemes. Executive directors were granted options under the
scheme between 2001 and 2004 when shareholder approved
amendments facilitated grants of a combination of options and
awards under the 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the latter of
which is now closed, with no outstanding awards).
Under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, in any
financial year a participant could be granted options with an
exercise price not exceeding two times annual earnings. Such
options are only exercisable if the growth in the Company’s
earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three
consecutive years is at least 9 per cent greater than the
growth in inflation.
  52. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Super options granted under the 1994 executive share option
plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Company’s
earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of five
consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per
share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by
at least three-quarters of those companies which constitute the
FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period. No super
options have been granted since 1997 and the 2001
amendments to the 1994 scheme removed the facility to grant
such options.
Performance conditions in respect of options granted in
1999, 2000 and 2001 were not satisfied and did not become
exercisable at the end of their respective initial performance
periods. As required under the Scheme rules, the performance
conditions attached to these grants were re-tested in 2005 and
satisfied. In addition, the performance conditions attached to the
2002 grant of options were satisfied in 2005 and these options
also became exercisable. As stated above, performance
condition re-testing is not permitted under the 2004 Plan.
The Committee selected earnings per share as the
performance measure for the 1994 Executive Share Option
Scheme and the 1995 Share Appreciation Rights Plan as it is
accepted as being a good indicator of long-term corporate
performance. Options have an inherent share price performance
measure, being the condition that before any reward is given the
share price must increase.
Executive directors may be eligible to participate in the BBA
Group 2004 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is
open to all eligible UK employees. Options are granted under
three or five year SAYE contracts at a 20 per cent discount to the
stock market price at the offer date. The maximum overall
employee contribution is £250 per month.
Performance Charts 
The charts below show the Company’s total shareholder return
over the last five financial years compared with the equivalent
information for the FTSE 350 Transport sector which the
Committee considers to be a suitable broad-based equity
market index of which the Company is a constituent. Graph 1
shows the annual change in total shareholder return for the
Company and the index, while Graph 2 shows the cumulative
change in total shareholder return from January 2001.
Directors’
Remuneration
Report
02 01 03 04 06 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % 
CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR
BBA        FTSE 350 TRANSPORT 
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
05 
02 01 03 04 06 05
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN %
ANNUALISED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR
BBA        FTSE 350 TRANSPORT
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50 53.
Table 1 – Emoluments and fees (audited)
Basic salary
allowances Other Benefits Termination Annual Total Total
and fees emoluments in kind Payments bonus 2005 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
R Quarta 160 – 1 – – 161 159
R V McGlone 484 76* 5 – 157 722 688
A R Wood 312 – 1 – 122 435 395
B Van Allen 285 – 13 – 96 394 471
R H McMillan 38
†
–2
†
252≈ 2
†
294 320
J M Harper 25
‡
–– – – 25 –
R M Phillips 30 – – – – 30 30
D J S Roques 38 – – – – 38 37
D Rough 35 – – – – 35 34
R N Stillwell 38 – – – – 38 37
Total 1,4457622252≈3772,1722,171
* During the year Mr McGlone elected to receive a proportion of his entitlement under the FURBS arrangements as salary (£76,067). 
†
To date of resignation 23 February 2005. 
≈ Mr McMillan resigned from the Board on 23 February 2005 but remained an employee of the Group until 14 November 2005. Under his service contract, Mr McMillan is 
entitled to 12 months pay and benefits in lieu of notice and assistance with finding alternative employment. In accordance with his termination agreement, during 2005 
he was paid £251,537 in compensation which comprised his basic salary of £210,125 from the date of his resignation to 31 December 2005, a lump sum of £5,492 in 
respect of outplacement assistance, holiday pay, a car allowance and benefits in kind totalling £36,288. Car allowance and benefits in kind payments ceased on 
14 November 2005, the date Mr McMillan took up alternative comparable employment. 
‡ From date of appointment 23 February 2005.
Table 2
Ordinary 25p shares
Directors’ interests in share 1 Jan 2005 31 Dec 2005
capital (includes interests (or date of appointment, if later)
held by a director’s spouse) Beneficial Beneficial
R Quarta 38,020 38,020
R V McGlone 118,621 191,915
A R Wood 15,67140,537
B Van Allen 20,574 40,277
R H McMillan – –*
J M Harper 572 20,572
R M Phillips 3,000 3,000
D J S Roques 13,000 13,000
D Rough 22,226 22,226
R N Stillwell 5,000 5,000
*To date of resignation 23 February 2005
There were no changes in directors’ interests in share capital between 
31 December 2005 and 20 March 2006.
Table 3 – Conditional and Matched Shares (audited)
1 Jan during Award Release 31 Dec
Shares 2005 the year date date 2005
R V McGlone Conditional – 155,700 23 May 2005 23 May 2008 155,700
A R Wood Conditional – 100,000 23 May 2005 23 May 2008 100,000
B Van Allen Conditional – 91,300 23 May 2005 23 May 2008 91,300
Matched – 9,851 6 Jun 2005 6 Jun 2008 9,851
Notes
1. Conditional and Matched shares awarded under the 2004 Plan. The mid-market price of a BBA Group plc ordinary 25p share on 20 May 2005 was 298.75p. This was the price
used to determine the number of Conditional shares awarded to the Directors on 23 May 2005. At the end of a three year holding period, the Conditional shares will vest and
be released to the executives if and to the extent that the performance conditions set out on page 51 are satisfied. The mid-market price of a BBA Group plc ordinary 25p
share on the Matched shares award date was 306.75p.
  54. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Table 4 - Options to acquire ordinary shares (audited)
Exercised/ Exercise
Granted lapsed price per
1 Jan during the during 31 Dec share Exercisable Expiry
2005 year the year 2005 pence from date
R V McGlone
(1) 388,600 - 388,600 - 205.90 01.10.04 01.10.11
(1)185,750 - -185,750 288.20 25.03.05 25.03.12
(1) 846,013 - - 846,013 153.00 13.03.06 13.03.13
(1) 422,200 - - 422,200 275.25 01.03.07 01.03.14
(4) - 311,300 - 311,300 298.75 23.05.08 23.05.15
(2)29,000 - 29,000 - 290.00 09.10.00 09.10.05
(2)89,600 - - 89,600 323.33 11.04.01 11.04.06
1,961,163 311,300 417,600 1,854,863
A R Wood
(1)221,000 - 221,000 - 205.90 01.10.04 01.10.11
(1)107,400 - -107,400 288.20 25.03.05 25.03.12
(1)552,131 - -552,131 153.00 13.03.06 13.03.13
(1) 271,000 - - 271,000 275.25 01.03.07 01.03.14
(4) - 199,900 - 199,900 298.75 23.05.08 23.05.15
(5) - 3,816 - 3,816 245.00 01.12.08 01.06.09
1,151,531 203,716 221,000 1,134,247
B Van Allen
(3)36,000 - - 36,000 341.33 21.04.00 21.04.07
(3)23,000 - - 23,000 422.00 10.03.01 10.03.08
(3) 198,300 - 198,300 - 205.90 01.10.04 01.10.11
(1)94,350 - - 94,350 288.20 25.03.05 25.03.12
(1)585,686 - -585,686 153.00 13.03.06 13.03.13
(1) 225,300 - - 225,300 275.25 01.03.07 01.03.14
(4) - 182,600 - 182,600 298.75 23.05.08 23.05.15
1,162,636 182,600 198,300 1,146,936
R H McMillan
(3)198,300 - -198,300
†
205.90 01.10.04 23.02.06
(1)85,200 - -85,200
†
288.20 25.03.05 25.03.12
(1) 504,825 - - 504,825
†
153.00 13.03.06 13.03.13
(1) 208,600 - - 208,600
†
275.25 01.03.07 01.03.14
996,925 - -996,925
†
†
Details of Mr R H McMillan’s outstanding options as at date of resignation 23 February 2005. Mr McMillan retained the right to exercise his options granted in 2001 until
23 February 2006. The Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion under the Rules of the Schemes to allow his options granted in 2002, 2003 and 2004 to become
exercisable for a period of 12 months from the date the performance conditions are satisfied.
(1) 1994 (amended 2001) Executive Share Option Scheme
(2) 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme - super options
(3) 1995 Executive Share Appreciation Rights Plan 
(4) 2004 Plan
(5) 2004 Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Notes
1. BBA Group plc Ordinary 25p Shares: Mid-market price on 31 December 2005 was 328.50p. Mid-market price for 2005 was in the range 276.25p to 329.25p.
2. 29,000 super options granted to Mr McGlone under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme lapsed during the year.
3. There were no changes in the directors’ options to acquire ordinary shares between 31 December 2005 and 20 March 2006.
4. Options granted under the 1994 (amended 2001) Executive Share Option Scheme are only exercisable if the growth in the Company’s earnings per share, as adjusted, for any
period of three consecutive years is at least 9 per cent and is greater than the growth in inflation.
5. Super options granted under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme are only exercisable if the growth in the Company’s earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of
five consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by at least three quarters of those companies
which constitute the FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period. 
6. Options granted under the 2004 Plan are only exercisable after the third anniversary of the date of grant and if the performance conditions as set out on page 51 are satisfied.
7. Mr McGlone and Mr Wood exercised options under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme on 6 June 2005. Mr Van Allen exercised options under the 1995 Share
Appreciation Rights Plan on 6 June 2005. The mid-market price of a BBA Group plc ordinary 25p share on the date of exercise was 306.75p. Mr McGlone made a gain of
£391,903.10 and retained 73,294 shares on exercise. Mr Wood made a gain of £222,878.50 and retained 24,000 shares on exercise. Mr Van Allen made a gain of £199,985.55
on exercise.
Directors’
Remuneration
Report 55.
Table 5 (audited) – Defined Contribution Scheme 
Company Contributions
2004 2005
£000 £000
UK Directors
R V McGlone 108 114
A R Wood 66 69
Table 6 (audited) – Defined Benefit Schemes 
Transfer
value of real Increase
Accrued Transfer Real increase in in transfer Accrued Transfer
Director’s age Director’s pension at value at increase Increase in pension (less values less pension at value at
at 31 Dec contribution 31 Dec 31 Dec in accrued accrued director’s director’s 31 Dec 31 Dec 
2005 during year 2004 2004 pension pension contributions) contributions 2005 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
UK Directors 
R V McGlone 52 5 31 356 4 4 48 145 36 506
A R Wood 54 5 14 171 4 4 50 90 18 265
Notes
1. The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
2. The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN 11. 
The transfer value represents a liability of the Company / pension scheme not a sum due or paid to a director.
3. The increase in transfer values between 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005 is as a result of changes in pensionable salary, one year extra service, increase in the 
age of the directors and effects of changes in market conditions.
Table 7 (audited) – Defined Contribution Scheme 
Company Contributions
2004 2005
£000 £000
US Directors
B Van Allen 4 5
R H McMillan 4 1
†
†
Contribution to 401k plan to date of resignation as a director 23 February 2005.
d. Pension 
UK
Through the year under review, Mr McGlone and Mr Wood
participated in the Company’s UK defined benefit plans.
For Mr McGlone, who joined the plan prior to April 2000,
pensionable earnings are basic salary plus an average of three
years’ annual bonus together with the taxable value of benefits
in kind. As from April 2000, the bonus element of pensionable
earnings for existing directors such as Mr McGlone was capped
at 45 per cent of salary. Pensionable earnings for Mr Wood and
other new participants comprise basic salary only. It is the
Committee’s policy that the bonus of any new director joining
the Company’s UK pension plans from April 2000 will not be
pensionable.
Under the Defined Benefit Plan Rules, the normal retirement
age is 62. In the case of death before retirement, a contingent
widow’s pension equal to two thirds of the member’s prospective
pension is payable. Other dependant’s pensions may also be
paid. The Plan Rules guarantee pension increases in retirement
by RPI up to 5 per cent. Further discretionary increases are
possible if RPI is above 5 per cent.
All the Company’s UK Defined Benefit Plans were closed to
new entrants from April 2002; new employees from that date have
the option to join a Company sponsored Defined Contribution Plan
provided through an external investment manager. The Company
matches the employee’s contribution in a range of 3 per cent to
7.5 per cent up to the state defined Earnings Cap.
Mr McGlone and Mr Wood were restricted in the level of
benefits they can earn under the Group’s pension plan by the
state earnings cap (£105,600 for the tax year 2005/2006) and
therefore the Company has provided a funded unapproved
retirement benefits scheme (‘FURBS’) at its discretion for these
directors. The Company’s FURBS is closely related to the
contribution the Company makes to the approved Defined
Benefits Plan less expenses and any special funding. The rate
of contribution for both Mr McGlone and Mr Wood was 36 per
cent per annum of pensionable earnings in excess of the
earnings cap, although Mr McGlone has elected to receive a
proportion of his entitlement as salary (see Table 1). On 5 April
2006, the FURBS arrangements will cease as a result of the
“Simplification” regulations under the Finance Act 2004. 
From 6 April 2006 revised arrangements will apply to all
the Company’s UK pension arrangements as a result of both
the Finance Acts 2004 and 2005 and the Pensions Act 2004.
The Company and the Plan Trustee in respect of the Defined
Benefit Plan have agreed that a “Notional Earnings Cap” will be
implemented in place of the state earnings cap in order to limit
the Company’s exposure to increases in both Defined Benefit
liabilities and additional matching Defined Contribution
contributions. Directors and other employees whose earnings
are above the Notional Earnings Cap will be given a choice of
either a contribution to the Defined Contribution Plan or a cash
replacement equivalent to the contribution that would have been
paid to a FURBS. Executive directors who are close to or already
at the Lifetime Allowance under the new “Simplification”
legislation may opt to withdraw from the Company’s pension
arrangements and receive instead a “neutral cost” cash
compensation.
US
Mr Van Allen participates in the Group’s Senior Executive
Pension Plan for North America (’SEPP’). Mr McMillan, whilst
an executive director of the Company also participated in the
SEPP. The Company has funded the SEPP since January 2004.
  56. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Under the Plan, at age 62, both Mr Van Allen and Mr McMillan
are entitled to receive a lump sum retirement benefit. The Plan
also provides for a reduced benefit in the event of early
retirement. Mr. McMillan’s SEPP benefit became fixed on 14
November 2005 when he began new employment. Mr. McMillan
has elected to receive an early retirement benefit to be paid on 1
May 2006. That benefit is based upon a five-year averaging of
compensation, including bonus, less amounts received under
certain other employer pension plans, which include 401k plans. 
In the case of death before retirement, the accrued benefit
reverts to the participant’s widow, and is paid in a lump sum.
At the Company’s discretion, a reduced early retirement benefit
is available once the participant’s age plus credited service
exceeds 59. Increases in pension are not guaranteed under
the Plan.
Mr Van Allen also participates in the Group’s 401k plan.
Mr McMillan also participated in the 401k plan whilst he was
an executive director and continued that participation until
14 November 2005. Details of the contributions made to the
401k plan are set out in Table 7 (page 55).
Mr Quarta, whilst an executive director, participated in a
United States executive retirement plan. He retains benefits
which accrued whilst he was an executive director. The main
features of this plan included a normal retirement age of 60, no
individual contributions and an annual benefit upon retirement
equivalent to 50 per cent of the average of his highest three
years’ compensation, inclusive of bonus and taxable benefits in
kind less amounts received under certain other employer
pension plans.
Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration 
The non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment
which is available on request. No compensation would be
payable for the early termination of the appointment of any
non-executive director.
The level of fees is determined by the Board as a whole on
the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive using
independent market surveys. Fees are in line with current 
market practice of comparable organisations. The Chairman of
the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee each
receive an annual supplement of £7,500. The Senior Independent
Director receives an annual supplement of £5,000. The
supplements reflect the increased commitments and demands
placed upon each of the non-executive directors in performing
their duties on the Board and its principal committees.
Non-executive directors fees were last reviewed in 2004.
Details of the non-executive directors’ fees for 2005 are set out
in Table 1 (page 53). 
The dates of appointment or subsequent re-appointment and
unexpired term of the non-executive directors as at 20 March
2006 are set out below:
Date of Appointment / Re-appointment Unexpired Term as at 
20 March 2006
R Quarta 1 March 2004 11 months
R M Phillips 5 May 2004 1 month
D J S Roques 11 January 2005 22 months
D Rough 1 March 2004 11 months
R N Stillwell 1 March 2004 11 months
As mentioned on page 43 the Board intends to renew Mr
Phillips’ appointment as a non-executive director for a further
term of one year with effect from 5 May 2006. Directors retiring
by rotation and standing for re-election at the forthcoming
annual general meeting are also shown on page 43.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Company’s
share option schemes, long-term incentive plan or pension
arrangements. As disclosed in this report Mr Quarta retains an
entitlement to a pension which accrued whilst he was an
executive director. 
Approved by the Board on 20 March 2006 and signed on its
behalf by:
Richard Stillwell 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Directors’
Remuneration
Report
Table 8 (audited) – Defined Benefit Schemes 
Transfer
value of real Increase
Accrued Transfer Real increase in in transfer Accrued Transfer
Director’s age Director’s pension at value at increase Increase in pension (less values less pension at value at
at 31 Dec contribution 31 Dec 31 Dec in accrued accrued director’s director’s 31 Dec 31 Dec 
2005 during year 2004 2004 pension pension contributions) contributions 2005 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
US Directors 
B Van Allen 50 10 365 365 91 100 81 90 465 465
R H McMillan 55 10 200 200 89 94 79 84 294 294
R Quarta 56 – 174 2,056 – – – 312 174 2,368
Notes
1. Accrued pension amounts shown for Mr McMillan and Mr Van Allen are lump sums.
2. The accrued pension and transfer value for Mr McMillan are as of 14 November 2005.
3. Mr Quarta cannot receive his pension in lump sum form under the terms of his plan.
4. The increase in transfer values between 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005 is 
as a result of changes in pensionable salary, one year extra service and increase in 
the age of the Directors 57.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of BBA Group plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements (the
“financial statements”) of BBA Group plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 which comprise the income statement, the
balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of
recognised income and expenses, the statement of accounting
policies and the related notes 1 to 30. These financial statements
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the directors’
remuneration report are included in the individual company
annual report of BBA Group plc for the year ended 31 December
2005. We have reported separately on the individual company
financial statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 and on the information in the directors’
remuneration report included in the individual company annual
report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted for use in the European Union 
are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in
accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the
relevant framework and whether the financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you if, 
in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the
financial statements. We also report to you if the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and transactions with the Company and other members of the
Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we
report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 
the Board’s statements on internal control covers all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other information
contained in the annual report for the above year as described 
in the contents section and we consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December
2005 and of its profit for the year then ended; and
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
As explained in the Basis of Accounting, the Group in addition 
to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as
adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with
the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board. Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give 
a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the
year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
20 March 2006
Independent
Auditors’
Report BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 58.
Consolidated
Income
Statement
Underlying* Note i 2005 Underlying* Note i 2004
TOTAL Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 1,510.8 – 1,510.8 1,373.8 – 1,373.8 
Cost of sales (1,218.2) (15.9) (1,234.1) (1,089.6) – (1,089.6)
Gross profit 292.6 (15.9) 276.7 284.2 – 284.2 
Distribution costs (65.7) – (65.7) (64.0) – (64.0)
Administrative expenses (102.1) (3.2) (105.3) (97.6) – (97.6)
Other operating income 4.4 3.1 7.5 3.6 2.0 5.6 
Share of profit of associates 1.0 – 1.0 0.9 – 0.9 
Other operating expenses (0.6) (6.2) (6.8) – (3.0) (3.0)
Restructuring costs – (24.8) (24.8) – (22.7) (22.7)
Loss on disposal of businesses – (1.3) (1.3) – (4.9) (4.9)
Operating profit from continuing operations 2,3 129.6 (48.3) 81.3 127.1 (28.6) 98.5 
Investment income 4 35.8 – 35.8 31.3 – 31.3 
Finance costs 4 (57.2) – (57.2) (43.2) – (43.2)
Profit before tax 108.2 (48.3) 59.9 115.2 (28.6) 86.6 
Tax 5 (23.7) 15.7 (8.0) (29.2) 6.9 (22.3)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 84.5 (32.6) 51.9 86.0 (21.7) 64.3 
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 6 1.9 – 1.9 6.4 – 6.4 
Profit/(loss) on disposal after tax 6 – 21.5 21.5 – (2.8) (2.8)
Profit for the period 86.4 (11.1) 75.3 92.4 (24.5) 67.9 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 86.2 (11.1) 75.1 92.3 (24.5) 67.8 
Minority interest 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 – 0.1 
86.4 (11.1) 75.3 92.4 (24.5) 67.9 
* Before items described in note i below
Note i: Restructuring costs and non-recurring items as set out in note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
From continuing and discontinued operations:
Basic 8 15.9p 14.3p 
Diluted 8 15.8p 14.0p 
From continuing operations:
Basic 8 11.0p 13.5p 
Diluted 8 10.9p 13.2p  59.
Consolidated 
Balance
Sheet
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets: Goodwill 10 429.8 370.4 
Licences 10 22.3 23.1 
Other intangible assets 10 2.2 2.6 
Property, plant and equipment 11 746.4 713.2 
Investments in associates 12 18.4 33.4 
Trade and other receivables 14 14.2 18.8 
1,233.3 1,161.5 
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 13 234.2 219.3 
Trade and other receivables 14 294.2 336.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 174.9 134.0 
Tax recoverable 2.8 4.8 
706.1 695.0 
Total assets 2 1,939.4 1,856.5 
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 15 (278.3) (253.7)
Tax liabilities (53.9) (54.8)
Obligations under finance leases 16 (4.3) (2.8)
Bank overdrafts and loans 18 (44.0) (47.8)
Provisions 20 (7.0) (2.3)
(387.5) (361.4)
Net current assets 318.6 333.6 
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank loans 18 (585.2) (620.6)
Other payables due after one year (43.1) (6.5)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (64.6) (69.9)
Obligations under finance leases 16 (38.1) (36.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (59.5) (66.2)
Provisions 20 (25.3) (24.2)
(815.8) (823.8)
Total liabilities 2 (1,203.3) (1,185.2)
Net assets 736.1 671.3 
EQUITY
Share capital 23 121.6 169.0 
Share premium account 23 340.2 285.3 
Other reserves 23 3.9 3.9 
Treasury shares 23 (0.6) (7.4)
Capital reserve 23 15.8 15.2 
Hedging and translation reserves 23 (1.5) (19.8)
Retained earnings 23 256.7 225.1 
Total equity 25 736.1 671.3 
Equity attributable to:
Ordinary shareholders 735.8 615.0 
Preference shareholders – 56.2 
Minority interest 0.3 0.1 
Total equity 736.1 671.3 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by
R Quarta Chairman    A R Wood Group Finance Director BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 60.
Consolidated
Cash Flow
Statement
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net cash flow from operating activities 26 174.0 132.4 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Dividends received from associates 0.4 0.9 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (72.6) (56.5)
Purchase of intangible assets (0.7) (5.2)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.3 5.7 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 27 (28.0) (85.4)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and associates 46.7 0.2 
Investment in associates – (0.8)
Deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions (0.9) (1.7)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (51.8) (142.8)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Interest received 36.4 30.4 
Interest paid (50.6) (42.5)
Interest element of finance leases paid (2.0) (1.4)
Preference dividends paid (1.9) (3.8)
Dividends paid (53.0) (49.4)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 7.7 0.2 
Proceeds from sale of treasury shares 5.6 1.0 
(Decrease)/increase in loans (79.7) 67.4 
Decrease in finance leases (2.8) (15.5)
(Decrease)/increase in overdrafts (5.5) 3.8 
Decrease in other liquid assets 58.7 7.6 
Net cash outflow from financing activities (87.1) (2.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 134.0 154.7 
Exchange adjustments 5.8 (8.1)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 35.1 (12.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 174.9 134.0 
Net debt at beginning of year (511.6) (459.5)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 35.1 (12.6)
Decrease/(increase) in loans 79.7 (67.4)
Decrease in finance leases 2.8 15.5 
Decrease/(increase) in overdrafts 5.5 (3.8)
Decrease in other liquid assets (58.7) (7.6)
Bank loans acquired – (10.7)
Finance leases acquired (3.3) (1.9)
Exchange adjustments (76.6) 36.4 
Net debt at end of year (527.1) (511.6) 61.
Consolidated 
Statement
of Recognised
Income and
Expense
2005 2004
£m £m
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 98.7 (58.3)
Gains/(losses) on net asset hedges (79.5) 38.6 
Fair value movements in foreign exchange cash flow hedges (6.1) –
Fair value movements in interest rate cash flow hedges 9.3 –
Fair value movements in commodity contract cash flow hedges (3.4) –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (0.6) (15.7)
Net income recognised directly in equity 18.4 (35.4)
Conversion of preference shares 17.9 –
Transfer to profit or loss from equity on cash flow hedges (2.5) –
Tax on items recognised directly in equity 10.4 (0.7)
Profit for the period 75.3 67.9 
Total recognised income and expense for the period 119.5 31.8 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 119.3 31.7 
Minority interests 0.2 0.1 
119.5 31.8 
Fair value of foreign exchange cash flow hedges on
adoption of IAS39 8.2 –
Fair value of interest rate swaps on adoption of IAS39 (6.4) –
Reduction in net assets on initial adoption of IAS32 (17.2) –
Change of accounting policy on adoption of IAS32/39 (15.4) –
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (15.4) –
Minority interests – –
(15.4) – BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 62.
Accounting
Policies
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the
first time. The disclosures required by IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption
of International Financial Reporting Standards” concerning the
transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 1. The
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. They have
also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of Consolidation
The Group income statement, balance sheet and cash flow
statement incorporate the financial statements of all subsidiary
undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are
consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control
passed. Control is achieved where the company has the power to
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee so as
to obtain benefits from activities.
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of
the consideration paid over the fair value of the net tangible and
intangible assets acquired, is capitalised and tested for
impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
in the year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was
written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting
standards then in force. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2003 was amortised
on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, with a
maximum life of 20 years, again in accordance with the
accounting standards then in force. As permitted by current
accounting standards, the goodwill previously written off to
reserves or amortised through the profit and loss account has
not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than
subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to
exercise a significant influence, typically through participation in
the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. The
consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of
the post-acquisition reserves of all such companies.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary
and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for
impairment. In the Group’s financial statements, investments in
associated undertakings are stated at cost plus the Group’s
share of post-acquisition reserves less provision for impairment.
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at
the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the
balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange
prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change in
exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is
recognised in the income statement.
The income statements of overseas operations are translated
into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and their
balance sheets are translated into Sterling at the exchange rates
ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences
arising on consolidation are taken to equity. All other translation
differences are taken to the income statement, with the
exception of differences on foreign currency borrowing and
derivative instruments to the extent that they are used to provide
a hedge against the Group’s equity investments in overseas
operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange
difference on the net investment in those operations.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1,
derivative financial instruments have been accounted for and
presented on a UK GAAP basis for the year ended 31 December
2004. In accordance with UK GAAP, gains or losses on cash flow
hedges have been recognised in the income statement when
realised. Exchange differences arising on translation of the
opening net assets and results of overseas operations and on
foreign currency borrowings or other currency instruments, to
the extent that they hedge the Group's investment in such
operations, are dealt with through reserves. Compliance with
IAS 32 (Revised) “Financial Instruments – Disclosure and
Presentation” and IAS 39 (Revised) “Financial Instruments –
Recognition and Measurement” would require recognition of the
fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps
on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2004.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, derivative financial
instruments have been accounted for and presented under
IAS 32 and IAS 39. This initial application has been treated 
as a change in accounting policy in accordance with IAS 8
“Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors.” The main impact of this change in accounting policy is
to recognise the fair value of foreign exchange contracts,
interest rate swaps and commodity contracts on the balance
sheet with effect from the transitional date of 1 January 2005.
The effect of this change has been to reduce net assets by
£0.9 million at 31 December 2005.
  63.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise
interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and foreign
exchange contracts. All such instruments are used for hedging
purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of
the Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. All
derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair
value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments
depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge
and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges
are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is
recognised in the income statement. The ineffective portion of
such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement
immediately.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment
hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and
losses on the underlying net investment. The ineffective portion
of such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement
immediately.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all
of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges,
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the
profit and loss account using the effective interest method and
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent
that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their
nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for
goods supplied and services provided by the Group excluding
intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings
and sales taxes.
Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and
associated profit are recognised on a percentage completion
basis once the terms of the contract have been agreed with the
customer and the ultimate profitability of the contract can be
determined with reasonable certainty.
In our pilot training business, turnover is recognised evenly
over the duration of each course.
Research and Development Expenditure
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in
which it is incurred. An internally-generated intangible asset
arising from the Group’s development expenditure is recognised
only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable that
the asset will generate future economic benefits and the
development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
Post-Retirement Benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost
is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with
actuarial valuations being carried out annually on 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in
which they occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss and
presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting
from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the
present value of available refunds and reductions in future
contributions to the plan.
  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 64.
Accounting
Policies
Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined
by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries. In
certain overseas subsidiaries, to comply with local legislation
and to obtain taxation advantages, provision is made for the total
actuarial liability less the current surrender value of the
supporting investment.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at
cost. Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of
property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and
is calculated on a straight line basis over the following estimated
useful lives of the assets:
Land not depreciated
Buildings 40 years maximum
Plant and machinery (including 
essential commissioning costs) 3-18 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are
categorised within plant and machinery.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction
of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised
as part of those assets. The commencement of capitalisation
begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset
are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the
asset ready for use are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when
substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset
ready for use are complete.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the
impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the
asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested
for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that
the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued
amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would not have been determined had no impairment loss
been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior
years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued
amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is
treated as a revaluation increase.
Intangible Assets
Licenses are shown at amortised cost. Amortisation provided on
the cost of licenses is calculated on a straight line basis over the
useful life of the licenses.
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related
item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible
asset. Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs
incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated
on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of
intangible assets arising on acquisitions. An intangible asset will
be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from
contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be
measured reliably. Amortisation is provided on the fair value
of the asset and is calculated on a straight line basis over its
useful life.
  65.
Share-Based Payments
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-
based compensation plans. The fair value of the compensation is
recognised in the income statement as an expense. The total
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by
reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated
using the Black-Scholes valuation model. For cash-settled
options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance
sheet date. For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group
revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected
to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Leases
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as
if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are
shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values
of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the
shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the
assets concerned. The capital elements of future leases are
recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged
to the income statement over the period of the leases to produce
a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments
outstanding.
For all other leases (operating leases) the rental payments
are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis
over the lives of the leases.
Inventory
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate
proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in
progress and finished goods. Provision is made for slow moving
or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and
takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation
and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statement and the corresponding tax
bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for
using the balance sheet liability method.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates
where the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary
difference is not foreseeable.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of 
Estimation Uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year, are discussed below. The judgements used by
management in the application of the Group’s accounting
policies in respect of these key areas of estimation are
considered to be the most significant.
Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets
Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are
impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the
cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated
or the individual assets. The value in use calculation requires
the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from
the cash-generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate
in order to calculate present value. The carrying amount of
goodwill and tangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date was
£429.8 million and £746.4 million respectively. Details regarding
the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying value and
assumptions used in carrying out the impairment reviews are
provided in notes 10 and 11.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Determining the present value of future obligations of pension
and other post-retirement benefit schemes requires an
estimation of future mortality rates, future changes in employee
benefits and length of service. These assumptions are
determined in association with qualified actuaries. The net
pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes at the
balance sheet date was £64.6 million. Details regarding the
carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying
value are provided in note 21.
  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 66.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
1. ADOPTION OF IFRS
This is the first year that the Group has presented its financial statements under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore 1 January 2004.
AS AT AS AT
1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER
2004 2004
Notes £m £m
Reconciliation of shareholders' equity
Shareholders' equity under UK GAAP 680.6 659.1 
Adjustments
Share based payments 1 (0.9) (3.5)
Goodwill and acquired intangible assets 2 – 20.0 
Dividends 3 34.3 35.9 
Deferred taxation 4 14.9 11.2 
Pensions 5 (37.7) (51.4)
691.2 671.3 
2004
Notes £m
Reconciliation of profit for the period
Profit for the period under UK GAAP 49.8 
Adjustments
Share based payments 1 (3.0)
Goodwill and acquired intangible assets 2 20.7 
Deferred taxation 4 (2.5)
Pensions 5 2.9 
67.9 
Notes to the reconciliation of shareholders’ equity and profit for 2004
1. IFRS 2 “Share Based Payments” requires the recognition of a charge in the income statement for share-based payments based on the fair value of
the award as at the date of grant. The Group has recognised a charge in the income statement for the fair value of outstanding share options granted to
employees after 7 November 2002.
2. IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” requires that goodwill arising on acquisitions is not amortised, but is instead subject to annual impairment testing
in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”. The Group has applied the exemption allowing it not to restate business combinations prior to
1 January 2004.
3. IAS 10 “Events After the Balance Sheet Date” requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a liability at
the balance sheet date as the liability does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets”. As a result liabilities have been reduced by the amount of the proposed dividends at the balance sheet date.
4. IAS 12 “Income Taxes” requires recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to the temporary difference between the tax basis and carrying value (£nil)
of goodwill written off to reserves prior to the introduction of FRS 10 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. The Group has also recognised a deferred tax
liability for temporary differences relating to certain fixed assets without tax bases which were acquired as part of previous business combinations and
were non-qualifying items under UK tax law.
5. The Group has adopted the option within the amendment to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” to recognise the net pension obligation of all Group plans at
the transition date, with the obligation set against opening reserves. All actuarial gains and losses after the transition date are recognised in full through
the statement of recognised income and expenses. 
Further details of the transition to IFRS can be found in the IFRS Restatement document reported to the London Stock Exchange on 28 July 2005, which
is also available on the Group’s website www.bbagroup.com. 67.
2. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
MAINTENANCE,
AIRPORT REPAIR & TOTAL MATERIALS UNALLOCATED
SERVICES OVERHAUL AVIATION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATE TOTAL
Business Segments £m £m £m £m £m £m
2005
External revenue 514.4 377.1 891.5 619.3 – 1,510.8 
Underlying operating profit 60.0 34.4 94.4 43.8 (8.6) 129.6 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items (4.6) (15.3) (19.9) (20.5) (7.9) (48.3)
Segment result from continuing operations* 55.4 19.1 74.5 23.3 (16.5) 81.3 
Investment income 35.8
Finance costs (57.2)
Profit before tax 59.9
Tax (8.0)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 51.9 
Profit after tax from discontinued operations ** 1.9 
Profit after tax on disposal 21.5 
Profit for the period 75.3 
*Segment result includes £0.3 million and £0.7 million profit of associates within Airport Services and Materials Technology respectively.
** Profit after tax from discontinued operations primarily relates to the Materials Technology segment.
Other information
Capital additions 26.6 19.4 46.0 33.9 0.2 80.1 
Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 12.1 29.8 45.4 0.2 75.4 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss – – – 11.5 – 11.5
Balance sheet
Assets:
Segment assets 540.2 439.2. 979.4 761.4 180.2 1,921.0 
Investments in associates 9.9 – 9.9 8.5 – 18.4
Consolidated total assets 1,939.4 
Liabilities:
Segment liabilities (143.7) (69.8) (213.5) (201.6) (788.2) (1,203.3)
Consolidated total liabilities (1,203.3)
2004
External revenue 419.3 401.6 820.9 552.9 – 1,373.8 
Underlying operating profit 50.1 36.6 86.7 48.6 (8.2) 127.1 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items (0.9) (20.8) (21.7) (3.9) (3.0) (28.6)
Segment result from continuing operations* 49.2 15.8 65.0 44.7 (11.2) 98.5 
Investment income 31.3 
Finance costs (43.2)
Profit before tax 86.6 
Tax (22.3)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 64.3 
Profit after tax from discontinued operations** 6.4 
Loss after tax on disposal (2.8)
Profit for the period 67.9 
*Segment result includes £0.9 million profit of associates within Materials Technology.
**Profit after tax from discontinued operations primarily relates to the Materials Technology segment. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 68.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
2. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
MAINTENANCE,
AIRPORT REPAIR & TOTAL MATERIALS UNALLOCATED
SERVICES OVERHAUL AVIATION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATE TOTAL
Business Segments £m £m £m £m £m £m
2004
Other information
Capital additions 17.2 22.5 39.7 22.6 0.1 62.4 
Depreciation and amortisation 17.8 12.6 30.4 43.9 0.2 74.5 
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss – – – – – –
Balance sheet
Assets:
Segment assets 462.4 435.3 897.7 758.4 161.1 1,817.2 
Investments in associates 7.8 0.4 8.2 7.7 – 15.9 
Discontinued operations 23.4 
Consolidated total assets 1,856.5 
Liabilities:
Segment liabilities (96.9) (92.6) (189.5) (201.5) (793.5) (1,184.5)
Discontinued operations (0.7)
Consolidated total liabilities (1,185.2)
REVENUE FROM REVENUE FROM 
CONTINUING CONTINUING
OPERATIONS OPERATIONS CAPITAL 
BY DESTINATION BY ORIGIN ADDITIONS ASSETS
Geographical Segments £m £m £m £m
2005
United Kingdom 167.1 217.6 14.9 366.5 
Mainland Europe 442.1 287.0 11.3 336.0 
North America 831.3 954.9 47.4 1,151.7 
Rest of World 70.3 51.3 6.5 85.2 
Total 1,510.8 1,510.8 80.1 1,939.4 
2004
United Kingdom 129.0 217.8 8.0 418.9 
Mainland Europe 259.3 238.5 9.9 357.6 
North America 908.5 873.2 42.7 1,006.9 
Rest of World 77.0 44.3 1.8 73.1 
Total 1,373.8 1,373.8 62.4 1,856.5 
2005 2004
An analysis of the Group's revenue for the year is as follows: £m £m
Sales of goods 971.9 856.4 
Revenue from services rendered 538.9 517.4 
1,510.8 1,373.8  69.
3. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging / (crediting):
CONTINUING OPERATIONS DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS TOTAL TOTAL
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Net foreign exchange gains (0.8) (1.6) – – (0.8) (1.6)
Research and development costs 10.8 11.9 – – 10.8 11.9 
Depreciation and impairment of property,
plant and equipment 82.9 70.9 – – 82.9 70.9 
Amortisation of intangible assets
(included in administration expenses) 4.0 3.6 – – 4.0 3.6 
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 86.9 74.5 – – 86.9 74.5 
Total employee costs 356.4 338.2 0.1 0.3 356.5 338.5 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,060.1) (945.8) – – (1,060.1) (945.8)
Amounts paid to auditors:
– Audit fees 1.9 1.6 – – 1.9 1.6 
– Non-audit services 0.4 0.9 – – 0.4 0.9 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items included within statutory operating profit amounted to £48.3 million (2004: £28.6 million). The main items
included within this are:
– Non-recurring cost of sales £15.9 million (2004: £nil): A £4.4 million write-off of old WIP balances following the introduction of a new computer system
and closure of Millville; and a £11.5 million impairment charge in relation to a small number of production lines within the Fiberweb North America
Hygiene business. These impairments arise as a result of the negative impact on margins of increased energy costs and polypropylene prices, and
due to changes in customer demands for specialist products.
– Non-recurring administrative expenses £3.2 million (2004: £nil): This relates to the write-down of a receivable due from BBA Diagnostics following the
Group's decision to exit the joint venture.
– Non-recurring other operating income £(3.1) million (2004: £(2.0) million): Primarily relates to a curtailment gain on a post-retirement medical benefit
scheme, following the amendment of member benefits. 
– Non-recurring other operating expenses £6.2 million (2004: £3.0 million): Mainly includes costs of £4.3 million incurred to date in relation to the
separation of Fiberweb; and £1.5 million for the settlement of legal proceedings relating to the fuel farm operations of ASIG in Miami (The proceedings
involved the period from 1996 to the spring of 2003. ASIG was acquired by BBA in July 2001). 
– Restructuring costs £24.8 million (2004: £22.7 million): Includes costs of the closure of the Fiberweb Toronto facility; the completion of the closure of
the Millville facility; the closure of a manufacturing site in the UK Landing Gear business; the completion of the integration of AGI (acquired in October
2004); and a further rationalisation in Fiberweb USA and Sweden.
– Loss on disposal of businesses £1.3 million (2004: £4.9 million): This relates to the loss on disposal of CSE Parts, a small aviation parts supplier based
at Oxford Airport.
Net of tax and the profit/loss on disposal of discontinued business, total restructuring costs and non-recurring items included within profit for the period
amounted to £11.1 million (2004: £24.5 million). BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 70.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
4. INVESTMENT INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest on bank deposits 35.3 31.1 
Net finance income from pension schemes 0.5 0.2 
Total investment income 35.8 31.3 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (49.9) (41.6)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (2.0) (1.4)
Interest cost and dividends payable on preference shares (2.3) –
Other finance costs (0.4) (0.9)
Total borrowing costs (54.6) (43.9)
Less amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 1.0 0.7 
Fair value losses on interest rate swaps designated as
cash flow hedges transferred from equity (3.6) –
Total finance costs (57.2) (43.2)
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a
capitalisation rate in the range of 2.7 per cent to 5.3 per cent to expenditure on such assets.
5. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
CONTINUING OPERATIONS DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS TOTAL TOTAL
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax 18.6 8.1 0.6 2.3 19.2 10.4 
Adjustments in respect of prior years - current tax (6.4) – – – (6.4) –
Deferred tax (note 22) (4.2) 11.6 – – (4.2) 11.6 
Adjustments in respect of prior years - deferred tax – 2.6 – – – 2.6 
Income tax expense for the year 8.0 22.3 0.6 2.3 8.6 24.6 
Domestic income tax is calculated at 30 per cent (2004: 30 per cent) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is
calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
A deferred tax credit of £0.7 million has been accounted for within the profit on disposal of £21.5 million in the income statement.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit before tax:
continuing operations 59.9 86.6 
discontinued operations 2.5 8.7 
62.4 95.3 
Tax at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax
jurisdictions 34.5% (2004: 34.7%) 22.2 33.1 
Tax effect of share of results of associates (0.3) (2.3)
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in
determining taxable profit (3.2) (7.6)
Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised (3.2) (1.1)
Tax rate changes (0.5) (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6.4) 2.6 
Tax expense for the year 8.6 24.6 
The applicable tax rate of 34.5 per cent (2004: 34.7 per cent) represents a blend of the tax rates of the jurisdictions in which taxable profits have arisen.
The change on prior year is due to a change in the proportion of taxable profits that have arisen in each jurisdiction.
In addition to the income tax expense charged to profit or loss, current tax of £6.4million (2004: £nil) and deferred tax of £4.0 million (2004: £(0.7) million)
has been recognised in equity in the year. 71.
6. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Disposal of Finotech GmbH
On 30 June 2005, the Group disposed of its 40 per cent minority interest in Finotech GmbH for an immediate cash consideration of $76.0 million (£42.6
million) and a deferred cash consideration of $6.0 million (£3.4 million). The deferred consideration was received in full in December 2005. The profit on
disposal of Finotech amounted to £23.7 million. During the year, Finotech GmbH contributed £1.9 million (2004: £6.7 million) to the Group's profit for the
year, net of a tax charge of £0.9 million (2004: £3.9 million).
Closure of Fiberweb Japan
In 2005, the Group completed the closure of its Fiberweb sales operation in Japan. The loss on closure amounted to £2.2 million (2004: loss £1.0 million).
During the year, Fiberweb Japan contributed £nil (2004: loss £0.3 million).
7. DIVIDENDS
On 20 May 2005, the 2004 final dividend of 7.95 pence per share (total dividend £36.0 million) was paid to shareholders. In May 2004, the 2003 final
dividend paid was 7.60 pence per share (total dividend £34.3 million).
On 4 November 2005, the 2005 interim dividend of 3.50 pence per share (total dividend £17.0 million) was paid to shareholders. In November 2004, the
2004 interim dividend paid was 3.35 pence per share (total dividend £15.1 million).
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final dividend of 8.30 pence per share will be paid to shareholders on 22 May 2006. This
dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in accordance with IAS 10 “Post Balance Sheet Events” has not been
included as a liability in these financial statements. The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on 18 April 2006.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is £40.4 million.
  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 72.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
8. EARNINGS PER SHARE
CONTINUING OPERATIONS CONTINUING AND 
DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS
2005 2004 2005 2004
Earnings £m £m £m £m 
Basic:
Earnings
Profit for the period 51.9 64.3 75.3 67.9
Minority interests (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1)
Preference dividends – (3.8) – (3.8)
Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 51.7 60.4 75.1 64.0 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items 48.3 28.6 48.3 28.6 
(Profit)/loss after tax on disposal (discontinued operations) – – (21.5) 2.8 
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items (15.7) (6.9) (15.7) (6.9)
Adjusted earnings 84.3 82.1 86.2 88.5 
Diluted:
Earnings
Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 51.7 60.4 75.1 64.0 
Preference dividends – 3.8 – 3.8 
Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 51.7 64.2 75.1 67.8 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items 48.3 28.6 48.3 28.6 
(Profit)/loss after tax on disposal (discontinued operations) – – (21.5) 2.8 
Tax on restructuring costs and non-recurring items (15.7) (6.9) (15.7) (6.9)
Adjusted diluted earnings 84.3 85.9 86.2 92.3 
Number of shares
Weighted average number of 25p ordinary shares:
For basic earnings per share 471.0 449.0 471.0 449.0 
Exercise of share options 4.8 4.6 4.8 4.6 
Conversion of preference shares – 31.4 – 31.4 
For diluted earnings per share 475.8 485.0 475.8 485.0 
Earnings per share 
Basic:
Adjusted 17.9p 18.3p 18.3p 19.7p 
Unadjusted 11.0p 13.5p 15.9p 14.3p 
Diluted:
Adjusted 17.7p 17.7p 18.1p 19.0p 
Unadjusted 10.9p 13.2p 15.8p 14.0p 
Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and non-recurring items because the directors consider that
this gives a better indication of underlying performance. In calculating the diluted earnings per share for 2005, the effects of the convertible preference
shares have been omitted, as they are anti-dilutive.
From discontinued operations:
Unadjusted basic earnings per share for the discontinued operations is 4.9p per share (2004: 0.8p per share) and diluted earnings per share for the
discontinued operations is 4.9p per share (2004: 0.8p per share), based on the profit for the year from the discontinued operations of £23.4 million
(2004: £3.6 million) and the denominators detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share.
Adjusted basic earnings per share for discontinued operations is 0.4p per share (2004: 1.4p per share) and diluted earnings per share for discontinued
operations is 0.4p per share (2004: 1.4p per share), based on the profit for the year from the discontinued operations before restructuring costs and
non-recurring items of £1.9 million (2004: £6.4 million) and the denominators detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share. 73.
9. EMPLOYEES
2005 2004
NUMBER NUMBER
Average monthly number (including Executive Directors)
By segment
Airport Services 7,977 7,184 
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul 2,314 2,481 
Materials Technology 3,027 2,955 
13,318 12,620 
By region
United Kingdom 2,239 1,738 
Mainland Europe 1,391 1,249 
North America 9,325 9,281 
Rest of World 363 352 
13,318 12,620 
£m £m
Employment costs
Wages and salaries 302.1 288.4 
Social security costs 42.8 37.9 
Pension costs 11.6 12.2 
356.5 338.5 
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
GOODWILL LICENCES OTHER TOTAL GOODWILL LICENCES OTHER TOTAL
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Beginning of year 370.4 29.8 2.7 402.9 316.1 22.4 – 338.5 
Exchange adjustments 31.8 2.2 – 34.0 (17.5) (0.4) – (17.9)
Acquisitions 23.4 – 0.3 23.7 70.5 – 2.7 73.2 
Additions – 0.7 – 0.7 – 7.8 – 7.8 
Disposals (1.9) – – (1.9) (0.9) – – (0.9)
Acquisitions in prior years 6.1 – (0.4) 5.7 2.2 – – 2.2 
End of year 429.8 32.7 2.6 465.1 370.4 29.8 2.7 402.9 
Amortisation
Beginning of year – (6.7) (0.1) (6.8) – (3.2) – (3.2)
Amortisation charge for the year – (3.7) (0.3) (4.0) – (3.5) (0.1) (3.6)
End of year – (10.4) (0.4) (10.8) – (6.7) (0.1) (6.8)
Carrying amount
End of year 429.8 22.3 2.2 454.3 370.4 23.1 2.6 396.1 
Licences are amortised over the period to which they relate, which is on average 10 years.
Other intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives which is on average 10 years.
The £6.1 million arising on acquisitions in prior years is as a result of the finalisation of fair value exercises. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 74.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the
business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Airport Services:
ASIG US 85.8 73.6 
Signature US 99.2 84.1 
Signature UK 16.5 15.1
Other – (several CGUs) 19.7 12.0 
Engine Repair and Overhaul:
Dallas Airmotive 46.4 41.5 
H&S Aviation 10.7 10.7 
Oxford Aviation Services 14.3 14.3 
Other – (several CGUs) 23.9 11.5 
Materials Technology:
Veratec 55.0 50.8 
Tecnofibra 14.5 15.0 
Tenotex 22.7 22.8 
Other – (several CGUs) 21.1 18.9 
429.8 370.4 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those
regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount
rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are
based on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in
the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next three years and
extrapolates cash flows for the following years based on an estimated growth rate of 2.5 per cent. This rate does not exceed the average long-term
growth rate for the relevant markets. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs is 11.15 per cent. 75.
11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
LAND AND FIXTURES AND LAND AND FIXTURES AND
BUILDINGS EQUIPMENT TOTAL BUILDINGS EQUIPMENT TOTAL
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
Beginning of year 367.9 758.5 1,126.4 378.9 759.2 1,138.1 
Exchange adjustments 30.8 45.4 76.2 (20.8) (29.6) (50.4)
Transfers to stock – –– – (4.9) (4.9)
Acquisition of businesses 3.1 1.0 4.1 7.4 15.3 22.7 
Additions 22.6 56.8 79.4 10.9 43.7 54.6 
Disposals (3.8) (12.2) (16.0) (8.4) (10.6) (19.0)
Asset write downs (1.2) (10.1) (11.3) (0.1) (14.6) (14.7)
End of year 419.4 839.4 1,258.8 367.9 758.5 1,126.4 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year 106.4 306.8 413.2 97.3 282.5 379.8 
Exchange adjustments 9.9 22.1 32.0 (5.8) (11.4) (17.2)
Depreciation charge for the year 14.6 56.8 71.4 16.5 54.4 70.9 
Disposals (2.7) (7.0) (9.7) (1.6) (9.7) (11.3)
Impairments – 11.5 11.5 – ––
Asset write downs (0.1) (5.9) (6.0) – (9.0) (9.0)
End of year 128.1 384.3 512.4 106.4 306.8 413.2 
Carrying amount
End of year 291.3 455.1 746.4 261.5 451.7 713.2 
2005 2004
Capital commitments £m £m
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for 12.1 5.6
The carrying amount of the Group's fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £15.4 million (2004: £27.4 million) in respect of assets held under
finance leases.
Where assets have been impaired the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value in use, estimated using a discount rate 
of 11.15 per cent.
12. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost of investment in associates 13.7 14.6 
Share of post acquisition profit, net of dividends received 4.7 18.8 
18.4 33.4 
The names and interests in major associated undertakings are shown on page 102.
2005 2004
Aggregated amounts relating to associates £m £m
Total assets 40.9 95.5
Total liabilities (13.2) (28.2)
Net assets 27.7 67.3
2005 2004
£m £m
Revenue 68.3 127.9
Profit for the year 8.0 21.3
Group's share of profit for the year 2.9 7.6
Included within the Group’s share of profit for the year is £1.9 million (2004: £6.7 million) which is reported within discontinued operations on the face of
the income statement. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 76.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
13. INVENTORIES
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials 106.2 104.4 
Work-in-progress 34.1 35.5 
Finished goods 93.9 79.4 
234.2 219.3 
14. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
2005 2004
Trade and other receivables £m £m
Trade receivables 228.0 202.2 
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 66.2 134.7 
Trade and other receivables due within one year 294.2 336.9 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates – 3.0 
Trade and other receivables due after one year 14.2 15.8 
Receivables due after one year 14.2 18.8 
308.4 355.7 
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods of £7.1 million (2004: £4.5 million). This allowance has been
determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The
carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by
international credit-rating agencies.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful
receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction
of the cash flows.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade payables 144.8 130.8 
Other taxation and social security 7.6 7.1 
Other payables 66.2 54.9 
Accruals and deferred income 59.7 60.9 
278.3 253.7 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 77.
16. OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
PRESENT VALUE OF
MINIMUM LEASE MINIMUM LEASE
PAYMENTS PAYMENTS
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 5.1 4.3 4.3 2.8 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 15.6 15.5 9.2 11.0 
After five years 37.2 34.2 28.9 25.4 
57.9 54.0 42.4 39.2 
Less: future finance charges (15.5) (14.8) N/A N/A
Present value of lease obligations 42.4 39.2 42.4 39.2 
Less: Amount due for settlement within
12 months (shown within current liabilities) (4.3) (2.8)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 38.1 36.4 
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The average lease term is seven years for equipment and
20 years for Fixed Based Operations (FBO) leasehold improvements. For the year ended 31 December 2005, the average effective borrowing rate was
3.9 per cent (2004: 3.0 per cent). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date or vary based on prevailing interest rates.
Finance lease obligations are denominated in the following currencies: US Dollars £33.5 million; Euros £3.0 million; Swedish Kroner £5.9 million.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
17. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2005 2004
The Group as lessee £m £m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases
recognised as an expense in the year 36.5 33.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Within one year 37.0 32.1 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 113.2 102.9 
After five years 202.4 163.0 
352.6 298.0 
Operating lease payments represent amounts payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, plants, FBOs, and equipment. Leases are
negotiated for an average term of eight years for office properties, ten years for plants and warehouses, seventeen years for FBOs, and five years
for equipment. Rentals are generally fixed or adjusted based on inflation.
The total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases at 31 December 2005 were £33.9 million. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 78.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
18. BANK OVERDRAFT AND LOANS
2005 2004
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 30.7 29.3 
Bank loans 596.6 633.9 
Loans other than from banks 1.9 5.2 
629.2 668.4 
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 44.0 47.8 
In the second year 5.9 6.7 
In the third to fifth years inclusive 579.1 613.7 
After five years 0.2 0.2 
629.2 668.4 
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months
(shown under current liabilities) (44.0) (47.8)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 585.2 620.6 
The fair value of the Group's borrowings are not materially different from their carrying values.
The carrying amounts of the Group's borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
STERLING US DOLLAR EURO OTHER TOTAL
31 December 2005 £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 21.6 6.2 1.7 1.2 30.7 
Bank loans 18.0 441.9 111.8 24.9 596.6 
Loans other than from banks 0.2 1.3 0.4 – 1.9
39.8 449.4 113.9 26.1 629.2
31 December 2004
Bank overdrafts 22.5 2.8 3.4 0.6 29.3 
Bank loans 105.7 392.0 114.4 21.8 633.9 
Loans other than from banks – 1.4 3.8 – 5.2 
128.2 396.2 121.6 22.4 668.4 
The average interest rates on borrowings are as follows:
2005 2004
Sterling 5.4% 5.1%
US Dollar 4.0% 2.0%
Euros 2.6% 2.4%
All borrowings are arranged at floating rates thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. All bank loans are unsecured (2004 secured borrowings: £2.2 million). 
The effective interest rates on borrowings are not materially different from their nominal interest rates.
The Group has one principal bank loan which is a multicurrency revolving credit facility dated 24 August 2004 for £950 million (2004: £950 million) which
is due to expire in August 2009. This facility is an unsecured committed bank facility.
At 31 December 2005, the Group had available £374.4 million (2004: £349.4 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met. 79.
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
FAIR VALUES
31 DECEMBER 2005
ASSET LIABILITIES
£m £m
Cash flow hedges:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.7 2.1
Interest rate swaps 4.4 1.5
Commodity Futures – 3.4
6.1 7.0
Analysed as maturing in:
Less than 1 year 1.4 4.7
2-5 years 4.7 2.3
More than 5 years ––
6.1 7.0
Foreign exchange contracts not designated
as cash flow hedges:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.8 1.7
2.8 1.7
Analysed as maturing in:
Less than 1 year 2.8 1.7
2-5 years – –
2.8 1.7
Net investment hedges:
Cross currency swaps 1.8 32.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 0.6
1.8 32.9
Analysed as maturing in:
Less than 1 year 1.4 0.6
2-5 years 0.4 32.3
1.8 32.9
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments shown in the table above are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance
sheet date and are held as assets and liabilities within other receivables and other payables.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, derivative financial instruments have been accounted for and presented on a UK GAAP basis for
the year ended 31 December 2004. The disclosures required by FRS 13 “Derivatives and other Financial Instruments: Disclosures” in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2004 are detailed in the Appendix below. 
Currency Risks
The overall policy of the Group is to use currency derivatives to manage the foreign currency risk arising within the underlying businesses. It is the
Group's policy not to undertake any speculative currency transactions using derivatives. The Group manages its transactional currency risk by hedging
significant currency exposures in accordance with foreign exchange policies that our subsidiaries have in place which have been pre-agreed between
Group Treasury and the subsidiary. Each subsidiary with significant foreign exchange exposures has its own pre-agreed foreign exchange policy with
each policy individually tailored to the foreign exchange exposure within the relevant subsidiary. Transaction currency risk is managed through the use
of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Forward foreign exchange contracts that are not designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge currency flows through the BBA Group plc company
bank accounts and to ensure that the Group is not exposed to foreign exchange risk through the management of its international cash pooling structure.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £448.8 million (2004: £347.1 million) of forward foreign exchange contracts 
to buy or sell foreign currency.
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to £0.4 million has been deferred in equity
during the year. 
An amount of £2.5 million has been transferred to the income statement in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts that matured during the period.
Changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts which have not been designated as cash flow hedges amounting to £1.7 million have
been transferred to the income statement in the year.
The Group manages its translational currency risk by hedging between 50 and 85 per cent of overseas net assets through the use of foreign currency
denominated loans, forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps. 
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £503.5 million (2004: £332.9 million) of cross currency swaps and a notional
amount of £44.4 million (2004: £nil) of additional forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge overseas net assets.
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as net investment hedges amounting to £31.1 million has been deferred in equity. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 80.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest Rate Risks 
The Group's policy with regards to interest rate risk is to use a combination of debt and derivative instruments to fix portions of the exposures for varying
periods based upon the debt maturity profile and the expectation of future interest rates.
The majority of the Group's debt and cash balances are based on floating interest rates. The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to
movements on these floating interest rates.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £337.2 million (2004: £409.4 million) of interest rate swaps which are used to
hedge the Group's interest rate exposure.
The fair value of interest rate swaps designated and effective as cash flow hedges of £2.9 million has been deferred in equity. An amount of £3.7 million
has been offset against hedged interest payments made in the period.
Commodity Risks
The Group's non-woven business, BBA Fiberweb, has commodity raw material price exposure to a number of raw materials with the majority of the
exposure relating to polypropylene. The Group's policy is to manage its polypropylene exposure through a combination of physical factors in managing
the business as well as using derivative instruments including fixed price swaps and futures contracts in accordance with a pre-agreed policy.
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had committed to a notional amount of £16.6 million of polypropylene futures contracts which are used to hedge BBA
Fiberweb's polypropylene raw material price exposure.
The fair value of commodity swaps designated and effective as cash flow hedges of £3.4 million has been deferred in equity.
Appendix: FRS 13 “Derivatives and other Financial Instruments: Disclosures” as at 31 December 2004:
Interest rate profile
After taking into account interest rate swaps and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the interest rate profile of the Group's financial liabilities at
31 December 2004 was as follows: 
FLOATING
FIXED RATE RATE TOTAL
£m £m £m
Sterling – 128.2 128.2 
US Dollar 306.4 335.9 642.3 
Euro 73.6 151.5 225.1 
Other – 44.9 44.9 
Financial liabilities excluding non-equity capital 380.0 660.5 1,040.5 
Non-equity capital:
Cumulative preference shares 0.2 – 0.2 
Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares 56.0 – 56.0
Total financial liabilities 436.2 660.5 1,096.7 
Of which:
Total borrowings 707.6 
Notional value of derivative financial instruments 332.9 
Non-equity capital 56.2 
Total financial liabilities 1,096.7  81.
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Further analysis of the interest rate profile at 31 December 2004 is as follows:
FIXED RATE
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
WEIGHTED PERIOD FOR
AVERAGE WHICH RATE
INTEREST RATE IS FIXED
% YEARS
US Dollar 4.3 3.3
Euro 3.5 0.4
Total borrowings 4.3 3.1
Non-equity capital:
Cumulative preference shares 5.0 –
Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares 6.8 –
6.8 –
The interest rate on floating rate financial liabilities is linked to sterling LIBOR in the case of sterling liabilities and the relevant currency LIBOR for
currency denominated liabilities.
FLOATING
FIXED RATE RATE TOTAL
£m £m £m
The Group held the following financial assets:
Sterling 73.4 369.3 442.7
US Dollar – 56.3 56.3 
Euro – 20.7 20.7
Other – 9.2 9.2 
Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year – 18.8 18.8
Total financial assets 73.4 474.3 547.7
Of which:
Cash at bank and short-term deposits 134.0
Notional value of derivative financial instruments 394.9
Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year 18.8
Total financial assets 547.7
The fixed rate on the sterling assets is in relation to interest rate swaps with a weighted average interest rate of 4.1 per cent which were due to mature
during the second half of 2005.
Cash at bank and short-term deposits earn interest determined with reference to the relevant money market deposit rates. Vendor notes relate to
disposals made in previous years and earn interest determined with reference to the relevant LIBOR.
Currency exposures
The extent to which the Group’s operating entities hold monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than in their local currency has been reviewed.
Taking into account the impact of forward currency contracts and other derivative instruments, the Group had no material profit and loss exposure to
foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as at 31 December 2004.
Gains and losses on hedges
The Group enters into forward currency contracts to eliminate the currency exposures that arise on sales denominated in foreign currencies immediately
those sales are transacted. It also uses interest rate swaps and currency swaps to manage its interest rate profile and translation exposures. Gains and
losses on hedges are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 82.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The table below sets out unrecognised gains and losses in respect of hedges at the beginning and end of the year: 
£m
Net losses on hedges at 1 January 2004 (13.2)
Net losses arising in previous years included
in 2004 results 8.1 
Net losses arising in previous years and not included
in 2004 results (5.1)
Net gains arising in 2004 and not included in 2004 results 6.9 
Net gains on hedges at 31 December 2004 1.8 
Of which:
Net losses expected to be recognised in 2005 or after (0.6)
Net gains expected to be recognised in 2006 or after 2.4
1.8
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:
2004
£m
In one year or less 50.6
In more than one year but not more than two years 9.5
In more than two years but not more than five years 621.9 
In more than five years 25.6 
707.6 
Borrowing facilities
The Group had undrawn committed facilities at 31 December, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met, as follows:
2004
£m
Expiring in one year or less 2.1 
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years –
Expiring in more than two years 347.3 
349.4 
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group's financial assets and liabilities at 31 December:
2004
BOOK VALUE FAIR VALUE
£m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:
Short-term financial liabilities and current proportion of long-term borrowings (50.6) (50.6)
Long-term borrowings (657.0) (657.5)
Non-equity capital (56.2) (91.1)
Cash deposits 134.0 134.0 
Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year 18.8 18.8 
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile:
Interest rate swaps – (6.4)
Currency swaps 62.0 62.0
Forward foreign currency contracts – 8.2
Commodity swap ––
The fair value of the non-equity capital, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts have been determined by reference
to prices available from the markets on which the instruments involved are traded. All the other fair values shown above have been calculated by
discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The interest rates on currency swaps are based upon short-term floating rates and therefore the difference between the book value and fair value
is immaterial. 83.
20. PROVISIONS
EXCHANGE
BEGINNING TRANSFERRED RATE CHARGED UTILISED END
OF YEAR FROM PAYABLES ADJUSTMENTS IN YEAR IN YEAR OF YEAR
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Restructuring provisions 2.3 0.2 0.5 5.8 (1.8) 7.0 
Discontinued operations 24.2 – – 0.3 (1.8) 22.7
Environmental provisions – 3.0 0.3 0.1 (0.8) 2.6 
26.5 3.2 0.8 6.2 (4.4) 32.3
Restructuring provisions represents cost provided in relation to decisions made at the balance sheet date for reorganisations which are expected to
occur within one year of the balance sheet date, including the closure of our facility in Canada. The charges to the restructuring provision relate
principally to the Fiberweb business including the closure of our facility in Canada. The spend represents costs relating to the Millville closure and prior
year disposals. 
Discontinued operations represents a provision for environmental liabilities relating to businesses that have been disposed of by the Group.
The liabilities have been assessed over a remaining period of 25 years. The provision of £22.7 million is partially offset by expected recoveries from
third parties of £13.3 million (2004: £13.3 million), which are included within trade and other receivables due after one year in note 14.
Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities within businesses that have been acquired by the Group. The liabilities have a expected
life of up to 5 years.
2005 2004
Analysed as: £m £m
Current liabilities 7.0 2.3 
Non-current liabilities 25.3 24.2 
32.3 26.5 
21. PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Group operates a number of plans worldwide. The main plans, which cover the majority of employees, are of the funded defined benefit type. The
normal pension cost for the Group, including early retirement costs, was £11.6 million (2004: £12.2 million) of which £6.5 million (2004: £8.8 million) was
in respect of foreign schemes. This includes £6.0 million (2003: £5.8 million) relating to defined contribution schemes. The pension costs are assessed in
accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, where practicable, using a variety of methods and assumptions and otherwise, in respect
of certain foreign schemes, in accordance with local regulations.
The Group’s main UK pension commitments are contained within a final salary defined benefit scheme with assets held in a separate trustee
administered fund. Contributions to the scheme are made and the pension cost is assessed using the projected unit method. The latest actuarial
valuation of the scheme was as at 31 March 2004.
The Group's foreign pension schemes mainly relate to a number of funded final salary defined benefit pension arrangements in North America. Pension
costs have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method and assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place.
The overseas deficit includes unfunded schemes valued at £27.3 million.
The Group also operates a number of plans in North America which principally cover healthcare and life assurance benefits for its retirees. The costs of
these other post-retirement benefits are assessed by independent qualified actuaries.
In accordance with IAS 19, and subject to materiality, the latest actuarial valuations of the Group's defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare
plans have been reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2005. The following weighted average financial assumptions have been adopted:
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD
p.a. (%) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Discount rate 4.8 5.3 5.5 5.4 6.0 6.2 4.2 5.2 5.7
Rate of increase to pensionable salaries 4.4 4.4 4.3 0.5 3.7 3.7 2.3 2.0 3.7
Price inflation 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.1 1.0 2.0
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.8 2.7 2.7 – – – 1.2 1.0 1.5 BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 84.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
21. PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
The fair value of the assets and liabilities of the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
£m 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Assets
Equities 123.4 119.2 130.6 27.0 25.1 21.4 0.5 0.3 0.2 150.9 144.6 152.2 
Government bonds 162.4 205.9 192.1 18.8 9.5 16.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 181.3 215.5 208.7 
Corporate bonds 78.1 – – 15.6 – – – – – 93.7 – –
Property 45.1 36.1 33.7 – – – – – – 45.1 36.1 33.7 
Insurance policies 8.8 7.9 8.8 1.3 17.7 12.2 – – – 10.1 25.6 21.0
Cash 19.0 12.8 3.7 – – – – – – 19.0 12.8 3.7 
Total fair value of scheme assets 436.8 381.9 368.9 62.7 52.3 50.1 0.6 0.4 0.3 500.1 434.6 419.3 
Present value of defined
benefit obligations 452.2 415.3 388.0 101.5 82.0 79.4 11.0 7.2 6.7 564.7 504.5 474.1 
Liability recognised
on the balance sheet (15.4) (33.4) (19.1) (38.8) (29.7) (29.3) (10.4) (6.8) (6.4) (64.6) (69.9) (54.8)
The funding policy for the United Kingdom and majority of the North American schemes is reviewed on a systematic basis in consultation with the
independent scheme actuary in order to ensure that the funding contributions from sponsoring employers are appropriate to meet the liabilities of the
schemes over the long term.
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA
RESTATED
Long Term Expected Return on Assets (%) 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Equities 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.3 8.5 9.0
Government Bonds 4.0 5.0 5.0 4.4 5.5 5.7
Corporate Bonds 4.5 – – 5.1 5.5 –
Other 6.5 5.6 5.6 4.0 3.0 3.2 
In preparing the financial statements we have restated the 2004 long term expected return on assets based on advice from our actuaries.
£m UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
Analysis of income statement charge 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Current service cost 4.7 5.7 0.8 1.5 0.9 0.2 6.4 7.4 
Past service cost 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Interest cost 21.8 21.0 5.0 5.0 0.3 0.3 27.1 26.3 
Expected return on assets (23.8) (23.2) (3.7) (3.3) – – (27.5) (26.5)
Gain due to settlements/curtailments and terminations – – (0.8) (2.0) – – (0.8) (2.0)
Expense recognised in income statement 2.8 3.6 1.3 1.2 1.2 0.5 5.3 5.3 
Current and past service costs have been recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses. Net interest income has been recognised
within investment income. Settlement losses have been recognised within other operating expenses and curtailment gains have been recognised within
other operating income.
£m UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the year 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 415.3 388.0 82.0 79.4 7.2 6.7 504.5 474.1 
Current service cost 4.7 5.7 0.8 1.5 0.9 0.3 6.4 7.5 
Interest cost 21.8 21.0 5.0 5.0 0.3 0.2 27.1 26.2 
Contributions by plan participants 0.9 1.1 0.1 0.1 – – 1.0 1.2 
Actuarial losses on scheme liabilities* 25.4 20.6 8.6 4.7 4.2 – 38.2 25.3 
Net benefits paid out (16.0) (21.2) (4.8) (4.4) (0.5) – (21.3) (25.6)
Past service cost 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Gains due to settlements and curtailments – – (1.1) (2.0) – – (1.1) (2.0)
Termination benefits – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 –
Foreign currency exchange rate changes – – 10.6 (2.3) (1.1) – 9.5 (2.3)
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 452.2 415.3 101.5 82.0 11.0 7.2 564.7 504.5
*Includes changes to the actuarial assumptions 85.
21. PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
£m UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
Changes to the fair value of scheme assets during the year 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 381.9 368.9 52.3 50.1 0.4 0.3 434.6 419.3 
Expected return on assets 23.8 23.2 3.7 3.3 – – 27.5 26.5 
Actual employer contributions 8.7 4.5 4.8 2.3 0.6 – 14.1 6.8 
Contributions by plan participants 0.9 1.1 0.1 0.1 – – 1.0 1.2 
Net benefits paid out (16.0) (21.2) (4.8) (4.4) (0.5) – (21.3) (25.6)
Actuarial gains on assets 37.5 5.4 – 1.1 0.1 0.1 37.6 6.6 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes – – 6.6 (0.2) – – 6.6 (0.2)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 436.8 381.9 62.7 52.3 0.6 0.4 500.1 434.6 
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Actual return on scheme assets 61.3 28.6 3.7 4.4 0.1 0.1 65.1 33.1 
£m UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
Analysis of amounts recognised in SoRIE 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in year 12.1 (15.2) (8.6) (3.6) (4.1) 0.1 (0.6) (18.7)
Cumulative amount of gains/(losses) recognised in SoRIE (3.1) (15.2) (12.2) (3.6) (4.0) 0.1 (19.3) (18.7)
A 1 per cent increase in assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate charge in the income statement by £0.1 million and increase
the net liability by £1.0 million. A 1 per cent decrease in assumed medical cost trend rates would reduce the aggregate charge in the income statement
by £0.1 million and reduce the net liability by £0.8 million.
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
£m 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
History of Asset Values, Defined Benefits Obligation, Surplus/Deficits in Schemes and Experience Gains and Losses
Fair value of assets 436.8 381.9 368.9 62.7 52.3 50.1 0.6 0.4 0.3 500.1 434.6 419.3 
Defined benefits obligation 452.2 415.3 388.0 101.5 82.0 79.4 11.0 7.2 6.7 564.7 504.5 474.1 
Deficit (15.4) (33.4) (19.1) (38.8) (29.7) (29.3) (10.4) (6.8) (6.4) (64.6) (69.9) (54.8)
Experience gains 
on scheme assets 37.5 5.4 n/a – 1.1 n/a 0.1 0.1 n/a 37.6 6.6 n/a
Experience losses
on scheme liabilities (0.2) (9.0) n/a (2.4) (1.6) n/a (2.8) – n/a (5.4) (10.6) n/a
UNITED KINGDOM NORTH AMERICA REST OF WORLD TOTAL
Employer contributions for 2006 
are estimated to be as follows: £8.6m £8.3m £0.5m £17.4m
  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 86.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
22. DEFERRED TAX
FIXED OTHER GOODWILL & TAX LOSSES & RETIREMENT SHARE BASED TOTAL
ASSETS ASSETS INTANGIBLES TAX CREDITS BENEFITS PAYMENTS
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Beginning of year (88.3) 15.7 (10.0) 2.5 12.5 1.4 (66.2) 
Charged in year 4.0 (1.8) (5.2) 7.6 (1.4) 1.7 4.9 
Recognised directly in equity – – – – 4.0 – 4.0 
Acquisitions/disposals – 0.3 – 0.3 – – 0.6 
Exchange adjustments (4.9) 1.8 (2.0) 0.7 1.6 – (2.8) 
End of year (89.2) 16.0 (17.2) 11.1 16.7 3.1 (59.5) 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial
reporting purposes:
2005 2004
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities (59.5) (66.2)
Deferred tax assets --
(59.5) (66.2)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses and other temporary differences of £35.5 million (2004:
£35.4 million) available for offset against future profits. These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of future profits in the relevant
countries and legal entities can not be accurately predicted at this time.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred
tax liabilities have not been recognised was £16.2 million (2004: £12.2 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because
the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.
23. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
ALLOTTED, CALLED
UP AND FULLY PAID AUTHORISED
2005 2004 2005 2004
MILLIONS MILLIONS MILLIONS MILLIONS
Share capital
Number of shares
Ordinary 25p shares 486.6 451.3 600.0 600.0 
5% Cumulative preference £1 shares 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 
6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference £1 shares – 56.0 95.0 95.0 
Nominal value of shares £m £m £m £m 
Equity shares
Ordinary 25p shares 121.6 112.8 150.0 150.0 
Non-equity shares
5% Cumulative preference £1 shares – 0.2 0.2 0.2 
6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference £1 shares – 56.0 95.0 95.0 
– 56.2 95.2 95.2 
121.6 169.0 245.2 245.2 
Issue of share capital
On 6 June 2005, the Company issued 30,958,035 ordinary 25p shares following the exercise of conversion rights on 31 May 2005 by holders of 54,075,172
6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable preference £1 shares. On 25 July 2005, the Company issued 1,087,689 ordinary 25p shares following the exercise of
conversion rights on that day by holders of 1,899,866 6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable preference £1 shares. The remainder of the holders of the
6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable preference £1 shares were sent the proceeds to redeem their holding of 25,654 shares.
During the year a total of 3,272,326 ordinary 25p shares were issued under the BBA Group share option schemes. The consideration for shares issued
in respect of share options was £7.7 million. During the year a total of 2,011,400 ordinary shares were released from the BBA Group Employee Share
Trust to satisfy the exercise of options under the BBA Group 1994 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share
Option Scheme. The consideration for shares issued in respect of share options was £5.6 million.
  87.
23. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued
2005 2004
£m £m 
Reserves attributable to equity interests
Share premium account
Beginning of year 285.3 285.3
Premium on shares issued 54.9 0.3 
End of year 340.2 285.3 
Other reserve
Beginning and end of year 3.9 3.9 
Treasury shares
Beginning of year (7.4) (9.0)
Recognition of share-based payments 6.8 1.6 
End of year (0.6) (7.4)
Capital reserve
Beginning of year 15.2 14.8 
Share option costs 0.6 0.4 
End of year 15.8 15.2 
Hedging reserve
Beginning of year – –
Effects of changes in accounting policy 1.8 –
Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives (0.2) –
Transfer to income (2.5) –
End of year (0.9) –
Translation reserve
Beginning of year (19.8) –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 19.2 (19.8)
End of year (0.6) (19.8)
Total other 17.6 (8.1)
Retained earnings
Beginning of year 225.1 217.1 
Effects of changes in accounting policy 0.7 10.3 
Deferred tax on items taken directly to reserves 10.4 (0.7)
Actuarial losses (0.6) (15.7)
Dividends paid (53.0) (49.4)
Preference dividends paid – (3.8)
Loss on release of ESOP shares (1.2) (0.6)
Profit for the year 75.3 67.9 
256.7 225.1 
The ESOP Trust represents shares of the Company held under an Employee Share Trust and comprise 3,986 ordinary 25p shares (2004: 2,137,111 shares). BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 88.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
23. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued
Rights of non-equity interests
5 per cent Cumulative preference £1 shares:
i. entitle holders, in priority to holders of all other classes of shares, to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at a rate of 5.0 per cent per annum per
share payable half yearly in equal amounts on 1 February and 1 August;
ii. on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital together with a premium of 12.5p per share and a sum
equal to any arrears or deficiency of dividend; this right is in priority to the rights of the convertible preference and ordinary shareholders;
iii. carry the right to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company only if, at the date of the notice convening the meeting, payment of the dividend
to which they are entitled is six months or more in arrears, or if a resolution is to be considered at the meeting for winding-up the Company or reducing
its share capital or sanctioning the sale of the undertakings of the Company or varying or abrogating any of the special rights attaching to them.
6.75 per cent Cumulative redeemable convertible preference £1 shares:
i. entitle holders (subject to the prior rights of the 5 per cent cumulative preference £1 shares) to a fixed cumulative preference dividend at a rate of 6.75
per cent per annum per share, payable half yearly in equal amounts on 31 May and 30 November;
ii. carry the right to be converted into ordinary shares at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years 2004 to 2005 inclusive at the rate of 57.25
ordinary shares for every £100 nominal of convertible preference shares;
iii. will be redeemed by the Company on 31 May 2006 at par (if not previously converted or redeemed) and any arrears of dividend will be paid;
iv. on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital and payment of accrued dividends in priority to
ordinary shares but after the 5 per cent cumulative preference £1 shares;
v. carry the right to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company only if, at the date of the notice convening the meeting, payment of the
dividend to which they are entitled is six months or more in arrears, or if a resolution is to be considered at the meeting for winding-up the Company,
or for modifying or abrogating any special rights attaching to them.
24. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group plans provide for a grant price equal to the average of the middle market price of the BBA Ordinary Share for up to five dealing days prior to
the date of grant. The waiting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options
expire. Furthermore, options are generally forfeited if the employee leaves the group before the options vest.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2005 2004
WEIGHTED WEIGHTED
NUMBER AVERAGE NUMBER AVERAGE
OF SHARE EXERCISE OF SHARE EXERCISE
OPTIONS PRICE OPTIONS PRICE
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 25,453,491 239p 24,028,735 236p 
Granted during the year 9,057,139 199p 4,235,900 275p 
Reinstated during the year –– 42,639 270p 
Cancelled –– (39,800) 275p 
Exercised during the year (5,283,726) 235p (597,104) 205p 
Expired during the year (2,426,510) 258p (2,216,879) 286p 
Outstanding at the end of the year 26,800,394 224p 25,453,491 239p 
Exercisable at the end of the year 5,230,022 334p 8,031,226 296p 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 304p. The options outstanding at
31 December 2005 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 87 months. 89.
24. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated using the
Black-Scholes valuation model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
ISSUED IN ISSUED IN
MARCH 2003 OTHERS MARCH 2003 OTHERS
Weighted average share price (pence) 153 290 153 273
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 153 224 153 268
Expected volatility (%) 14.5% 12.8% 21.5% 16.9%
Expected life (months) 6 33 25 33
Risk-free rate (%) 4.0% 4.2% 3.9% 4.1%
Expected dividends (%) 3.8% 3.8% 5.5% 4.2%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the the period of time equivalent to the
remaining contractual life of the option. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects
of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.6 million (2004: £0.4 million) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year.
Cash-settled share-based payments
The Group issues to certain employees share appreciation rights (SARs) that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of the SAR to the employee
at the date of exercise. The fair value of the SARs is determined using the Black-Scholes model using the assumptions noted in the above table. The
Group has recorded liabilities of £7.6 million (2004: £3.5 million) and total expenses of £4.1 million (2004: £2.6 million). The total intrinsic value of vested
SARs at 31 December 2005 was £0.2 million (2004: £1.3 million).
Other share-based payment plan
The Company’s savings – related share option scheme is open to all eligible UK employees. Options are granted at a price equal to the average three day
middle market price of a BBA Group ordinary share prior to the date of grant, less 20%. Options are granted under three or five year SAYE contracts. The
maximum overall employee contribution is £250 per month. Pursuant to this plan, the Group issued 24,772 ordinary shares in 2005.
25. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
2005 2004
£m £m
Total recognised income and expense for the period 119.5 31.8 
Equity dividends paid (53.0) (49.4)
Preference dividends paid – (3.8)
Equity movement in capital reserve 0.6 0.3 
Movement on treasury shares 5.6 1.0 
Issue of shares 7.7 0.2 
Net movement in total shareholders’ equity 
for the period 80.4 (19.9)
Change of accounting policy on adoption of IAS32/39 (15.6) –
Total shareholders’ equity at beginning of period 671.3 691.2 
Total shareholders’ equity at end of period 736.1 671.3  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 90.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
26. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
2005 2004
£m £m 
Operating profit from continuing operations 81.3 103.6 
Operating profit from discontinued operations 1.9 8.5 
Share of profit from associates (2.8) (9.6)
Profit from operations 80.4 102.5 
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 71.4 70.1 
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.0 3.6 
Profit on sale of property, plant & equipment (0.2) –
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1.8 (0.4)
Additional pension scheme contributions (7.6) –
Other non-cash items 19.8 8.0 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 169.6 183.8 
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 14.1 (38.4)
Cash generated by operations 183.7 145.4 
Income taxes paid (9.7) (13.0)
Net cash flow from operating activities 174.0 132.4 
Dividends received from associates 0.4 0.9 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (72.6) (56.5)
Purchase of intangible assets (0.7) (5.2)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.3 5.7 
Interest received 36.4 30.4 
Interest paid (50.6) (42.5)
Interest element of finance leases paid (2.0) (1.4)
Preference dividends paid (1.9) (3.8)
Free cash flow 86.3 60.0 
Share of profit from associates above includes discontinued operations which are included within profit after tax from discontinued operations on the
face of the income statement.
Non-cash transactions
Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to £3.3 million were financed by new finance leases. Additions of £0.8 million in 2004
were acquired on deferred payment terms, and were settled in the current period. 91.
27. ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year which are detailed in the Directors' Report on page 40. The directors have performed an
exercise to establish the provisional fair value of the assets and liabilities of these acquisitions. The net assets acquired and the goodwill arising on
these acquisitions are as set out below:
ADJUSTMENTS PROVISIONAL
TO ALIGN FAIR
BOOK ACCOUNTING VALUE TO
VALUE REVALUATIONS POLICIES BBA GROUP
£m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 0.3 – – 0.3
Property, plant and equipment 3.4 0.7 – 4.1
Investments –– – –
Inventories 0.2 – – 0.2
Receivables 4.1 – – 4.1
Payables (2.4) – – (2.4)
Taxation 0.5 – – 0.5 
Net borrowings –– – –
Net assets 6.1 0.7 – 6.8 
Goodwill 23.4 
Cash consideration 30.2 
Deferred consideration (2.2)
Net cash consideration paid in 2005 28.0 
The fair values set out above are provisional and may be subject to amendment on finalisation of the fair value exercises.
The acquisitions noted above contributed £1.4 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £nil in respect of net returns on investment and
servicing of finance, paid £nil in respect of taxation, paid £nil in respect of capital expenditure and utilised £nil for investing activities. 
If the acquisitions had been completed on 1 January 2005, total revenue for the period from acquisitions would have been £24.8 million, and profit for
the year would have been £4.7 million.
28. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including specific product liability and environmental
claims in BBA Non-wovens North America and BBA Aviation respectively. Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance, reserves
and third party indemnities.
Additionally, the Group has previously owned businesses that manufactured products containing asbestos. No BBA company has manufactured or sold
any products or materials containing asbestos for many years. A small number of former BBA companies have been named as defendants to asbestos
related claims. When these companies were sold, BBA retained certain obligations to indemnify the purchasers against such claims. Notwithstanding
such indemnity arrangements, the costs incurred by BBA in dealing with claims made against these former BBA companies have been immaterial to
BBA. During the period 1989 to 31 December 2005, BBA's costs of defending and disposing of all asbestos related claims, net of insurance coverage,
were approximately £3.5 million. BBA maintains a portfolio of insurance coverage in respect of the majority of such claims, including legal defence costs
and liability cover. State operated compensation programmes have also provided coverage. On the basis of its past claims experience, BBA does not
anticipate any material increase in the cost to it of resolving such claims.
The directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set out above either individually, or in aggregate, will have
a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 92.
Notes to the
Consolidated
Financial
Statements
29. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
The Group has made a number of acquisitions since the balance sheet date which are detailed in the Directors' Report on page 40. Exercises to establish
the fair value of the assets and liabilities of these acquisitions have not yet been performed. The provisional net assets acquired and the goodwill arising
on these acquisitions are as set out below:
ADJUSTMENTS PROVISIONAL
TO ALIGN FAIR
BOOK ACCOUNTING VALUE TO
VALUE REVALUATIONS POLICIES BBA GROUP
£m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 4.0 – – 4.0
Property, plant and equipment 3.4 – – 3.4
Investments – – – –
Inventories 8.3 (0.1) – 8.2
Receivables 4.2 (0.1) – 4.1
Payables (4.3) (0.5) – (4.8)
Taxation – – – –
Net borrowings 0.1 – – 0.1
Net assets/(liabilities) 15.7 (0.7) – 15.0
Goodwill 31.2
Cash consideration 46.2 
30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this
note. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are detailed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Short-term benefits 3.2 3.1 
Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.7 
Termination benefits 0.3 –
Share-based payments 1.6 1.0 
5.9 4.8 
Post-employment benefits include contributions of £0.3 million (2004: £0.3 million) in relation to defined contribution schemes.
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals
and market trends.
Other related party transactions
During the year a subsidiary provided services to a company controlled by a person who is a close family member of Roberto Quarta, a director of
BBA Group plc. These were provided in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis and amounted to £17,389 (2004: £12,572).
At 31 December 2005 £nil remained unpaid (2004: £538). 93.
Independent
Auditors’ 
Report 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of BBA Group plc
We have audited the individual Company financial statements
(the “financial statements”) of BBA Group plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet, the
statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 12.
These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in directors’ remuneration report that is described
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial
statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report,
the directors’ remuneration report and the individual Company
financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of
directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and
the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as
having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the
relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not
consistent with the financial statements. We also report to you if
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion , the Company has not
complied with any of the four directors’ remuneration disclosure
requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority. These comprise the amount of each
element in the remuneration package and information on share
options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money
purchase and defined benefit schemes. We give a statement, 
to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other information
contained in the annual report for the above year and described
in the contents section including the unaudited part of the
directors’ remuneration report and consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information
in the financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2005; and 
• the financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as having been audited 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
20 March 2006 BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 94.
Company 
Balance
Sheet
Restated
2005 2004
At 31 December 2005 Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 0.1 –
Tangible assets
Land and buildings 3 0.2 0.4 
Plant and machinery 3 3.8 3.7 
Investments 4 1,549.9 1,549.9 
1,554.0 1,554.0 
Current assets
Debtors due after one year 5 1.1 –
Debtors due within one year 5 1,235.6 1,259.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 52.1 18.5 
1,288.8 1,278.1 
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings and finance leases 6 (8.0) (3.0)
Others 6 (1,456.5) (1,479.4)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (175.7) (204.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,378.3 1,349.7 
Long-term liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings and finance leases 7 (575.8) (602.8)
Others 8 (32.2) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges (0.1) –
Total net assets 770.2 746.9 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 121.6 169.0 
Share premium account 10 340.2 285.3 
Revaluation reserve 10 3.5 3.5 
Other 10 250.1 239.9 
Profit and loss account 10 54.8 49.2 
Shareholders’ funds 770.2 746.9 
Shareholders’ funds
Equity 770.2 690.7 
Non-equity – 56.2 
770.2 746.9 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March and signed on its behalf by
R Quarta Chairman     A R Wood Group Finance Director
In accordance with the exemptions permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been presented.
The profit for the financial year in the accounts of the Company, after dividends from subsidiary undertakings, amounted to £59.0 million (2004: loss
(£5.1) million).
The Company audit fee is included within the Group audit fee in the current and prior year and cannot be separately identified.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets. 95.
Accounting
Policies
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed
assets and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are set out below. They have
all been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding
year with the exception of FRS 20 ”Share based payments”;
FRS 21 “Events after balance date”; FRS 25 “Financial
instruments (disclosure and presentation)” and FRS 26
“Financial instruments (measurement)” which have been adopted
for the first time this year. The comparative period has been
restated where applicable in respect of each of these standards.
FRS 20 “Share Based Payments” requires the recognition of a
charge in the income statement for share-based payments based
on the fair value of the award as at the date of grant. The Company
has recognised a charge in the income statement for the fair
value of outstanding share options granted to employees after
7 November 2002, resulting in an adjustment to retained profit
of £4.3 million (2004: £3.0 million) and a reduction in the profit
and loss reserve of £8.5 million (£4.2 million).
FRS 21 “Events After the Balance Sheet Date” requires that
dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be
recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date as the liability
does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37
“Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”. The
impact of this change on adoption of this standard is to increase
net assets at the balance sheet date by £4.5 million (2004:
£1.6 million).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained
in FRS 1 “Cash Flow Statements” and has not produced a cash
flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained
in FRS 8 “Related Party Transactions” and has not reported
transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are
stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling
at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the
balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange
prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from a change
in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is
recognised in the income statement.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 25,
derivative financial instruments have been accounted for and
presented on a UK GAAP basis for the year ended 31 December
2004. In accordance with UK GAAP in effect at the time, gains or
losses on cash flow hedges have been recognised in the income
statement when realised. Exchange differences arising on
translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas
operations and on foreign currency borrowings or other currency
instruments, to the extent that they hedge the Group’s
investment in such operations, are dealt with through reserves.
Compliance with FRS 25 and 26 would require recognition of the
fair value of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps
on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2004.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, derivative financial
instruments have been accounted for and presented under FRS
26 (Revised) “Financial Instruments – Financial Instruments –
Disclosure and Presentation”. This initial application has been
treated as a change in accounting policy and made in accordance
with the transitional provisions of FRS 26. The main impact of
this change in accounting policy is to recognise the fair value of
foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity
contracts on the balance sheet with effect from the transitional
date of 1 January 2005. The effect of this change has been to
reduce net assets by £0.5 million at 31 December 2005.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group
comprise interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps
and foreign exchange contracts. All such instruments are used
for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying
exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk management
policies. All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative
instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated
as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge. 
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges
are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item
is recognised in the income statement. The ineffective portion
of such gains and losses is recognised in the income
statement immediately.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges
are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the
underlying net investment. The ineffective portion of such gains
and losses is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits
The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority
of full-time employees through the Company’s defined benefit
scheme. It is not possible to identify the share of underlying
assets and liabilities in this scheme which is attributable to the
company on a consistent and reasonable basis. Therefore the
Company has applied the provisions in FRS17 to account for the
scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement
benefits are charged to the profit and loss account so as to
spread the costs over employees’ working lives within the
Company. The contribution levels are determined by valuations
undertaken by independent qualified actuaries. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 96.
Accounting
Policies
Share-Based Payments
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled
share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the
compensation is recognised in the income statement as an
expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting
period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options
granted and calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation
model. For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option
is revisited at each balance sheet date. For both cash and
equity-settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Tangible Fixed Assets
Plant and machinery, with the exception of tooling and motor
vehicles, was professionally valued at 31 December 1988 on an
existing use basis. Additions after that date are stated in the
balance sheet at cost. Land and buildings are stated at cost or
valuation (performed in 1988). Other tangible fixed assets are
stated in the balance sheet at cost. Depreciation is provided on
the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets less estimated 
residual value and is calculated on a straight line basis over
the following estimated useful lives of the assets:
Land not depreciated
Buildings 40 years maximum
Plant and machinery (including 
essential commissioning costs) 3-18 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are
categorised within Plant and Machinery in note 3 of the
accounts.
The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the
revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for
existing use and on the revaluation of plant and machinery
to net current replacement cost.
Leases
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights
similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as
if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are
shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values
of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the
shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the
assets concerned. The capital elements of future lease
obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest
elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the
period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on
the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases (operating leases) the rental payments
are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line
basis over the lives of the leases.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and
takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and
accounting purposes. Deferred tax is provided in full on all
liabilities. In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than
not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
have not been discounted.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising
from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the
balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has
been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for
rollover relief. 
  97.
Notes to the
Company
Financial
Statements
1. DIVIDENDS
On 20 May 2005, the 2004 final dividend of 7.95 pence per share (total dividend £36.0 million) was paid to shareholders. In May 2004, the 2003 final
dividend paid was 7.60 pence per share (total dividend £34.3 million).
On 4 November 2005, the 2005 interim dividend of 3.50 pence per share (total dividend £17.0 million) was paid to shareholders. In November 2004, the
2004 interim dividend paid was 3.35 pence per share (total dividend £15.1 million).
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final dividend of 8.30 pence per share will be paid to shareholders on 22 May 2006. This
dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in accordance with IAS 10 "Post Balance Sheet Events" has not been
included as a liability in these financial statements. The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on 18 April 2006.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is £40.4 million.
2. DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
Emoluments and interests
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Report on Remuneration on pages 49 to 56.
2005 2004
Employees Number Number
Average monthly number (including Executive Directors) 37 34
£m £m
Employment costs
Wages and salaries 4.0 3.2
Social security costs 0.6 0.5
Pension costs 0.4 0.5
5.0 4.2
3. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Land and Plant and
Buildings Machinery
£m £m
Cost or valuation
Beginning of year 0.6 5.3
Additions – 0.3
Reclassification (0.2) 0.1
End of year 0.4 5.7
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of year 0.2 1.6
Provided during the year – 0.3 
End of year 0.2 1.9 
Net book value end of year
Owned assets – 3.8
Leased assets 0.2 –
0.2 3.8
2005 2004
£m £m
Land and buildings
Freehold – 0.1 
Short leasehold 0.2 0.3 
0.2 0.4  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 98.
Notes to the
Company
Financial
Statements
4. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
2005 2004
£m £m
Subsidiary undertakings
Cost of shares
Beginning of year 1,487.8 1,486.8 
Additions – 1.0 
End of year 1,487.8 1,487.8 
Provisions
Beginning of year (54.3) (54.3)
End of year (54.3) (54.3)
Net book value end of year 1,433.5 1,433.5 
Loans to subsidiary undertakings
Beginning of year 116.4 116.4 
End of year 116.4 116.4 
Total
Fixed asset investments 1,549.9 1,549.9 
5. DEBTORS
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,218.8 1,171.1 
Other debtors, prepayments and accrued income 16.8 88.5 
Debtors due within one year 1,235.6 1,259.6 
Other debtors due after one year 1.1 –
Debtors due after one year 1.1 –
1,236.7 1,259.6 
6. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Restated
2005 2004
£m £m
Borrowings (note 7)
Bank loans and overdrafts 8.0 3.0 
8.0 3.0 
Others
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1,434.7 1,449.3 
Corporate Tax – United Kingdom 4.9 8.4 
Other taxation and social security 0.2 0.1 
Other creditors 5.3 7.2 
Accruals and deferred income 11.4 14.1 
Preference dividends – 0.3 
1,456.5 1,479.4  99.
7. BORROWINGS
2005 2004
£m £m
Borrowings summary
Medium-term loans
Repayable between one and two years – –
Repayable between two and five years 575.8 602.8 
575.8 602.8 
Short-term
Overdrafts, borrowings and finance leases repayable 
within one year 8.0 3.0 
Total borrowings and finance leases 583.8 605.8 
Cash at bank and in hand (52.1) (18.5)
Other liquid assets within other debtors (1.8) (62.0)
Other liquid assets within other creditors 32.3 –
Net borrowings and finance leases 562.2 525.3 
Borrowings analysis:
Unsecured
Bank loans and overdrafts
Sterling 19.0 105.6 
US dollar 433.7 380.3 
Euro 104.8 97.9 
Canadian dollar 24.9 21.8 
Other currencies 1.2 0.2 
Total borrowings and finance leases 583.6 605.8 
Cash at bank and in hand (52.1) (18.5)
Other liquid assets within other debtors (1.8) (62.0)
Other liquid assets within other creditors 32.3 –
Net borrowings and finance leases 562.0 525.3 
The interest rates on unsecured loans range from 2.4% to 5.2% per annum and repayments are due at varying dates up to 2009.
Operating lease commitments
Land and buildings
Within one year 0.2 0.2 
One to five years 1.2 1.2 
After five years 0.1 0.4 
1.5 1.8 
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees of subsidiary undertakings’ overdrafts
or loans and other guarantees 54.6 56.3 
Additional detail of contingent liabilities are provided within the Group accounts in note 28.
Foreign currency contracts
At 31 December 2005, the Company had £448.8 million (2004: £347.1 million) of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign currency. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 100.
Notes to the
Company
Financial
Statements
8. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
RESTATED
2005 2004
£m £m
Borrowings (note 7)
Bank loans 575.8 602.8 
Others
Other creditors 32.2 –
608.0 602.8
9. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the period 59.0 (5.1)
Dividends (53.0) (53.2)
6.0 (58.3)
Fair value movements in interest rate cash flow hedges 9.3 –
Equity movement in capital reserve 0.6 0.3
Movement on treasury shares 5.6 1.0
Issue of shares 7.7 0.2
Conversion of preference shares 17.9 –
Net movement in shareholders’ funds for the period 47.1 (56.8)
Change of accounting policy on adoption of FRS 25/26 (23.8) –
Change of accounting policy on adoption of FRS 21 35.9 34.3
Change of accounting policy on adoption of FRS 20 (3.5) (0.9)
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 714.5 770.3
Shareholders’ funds at end of year 770.2 746.9 101.
10. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Details of Company Share Capital are provided within note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
RESTATED
2005 2004
£m £m
Reserves attributable to equity interests
Share premium account
Beginning of year 285.3 285.0
Premium on shares issued 54.9 0.3
End of year 340.2 285.3
Revaluation reserve
Beginning and end of year 3.5 3.5
Other
Merger reserve
Beginning and end of year 99.3 99.3
Capital reserve
Beginning and end of year 147.9 147.6 
Share option costs 0.6 0.3 
End of year 148.5 147.9
ESOP Trust
Beginning of year (7.4) (9.0)
Released to satisfy share options exercised 6.8 1.6 
End of year (0.6) (7.4)
Hedging reserve
Beginning of year – –
Fair value movements in cash flow hedges 9.3 – 
Fair value of interest rate swaps on adaption of FRS 25/26 (6.4) –
End of year 2.9 –
Total other 250.1 239.8 
Profit and loss account
Beginning of year 49.3 75.1
Change in accounting policy 0.7 33.1
Loss on release of ESOP shares (1.2) (0.6)
Retained profit/(loss) for the financial year 6.0 (58.3)
End of year 54.8 49.3 
The ESOP Trust represents shares of the Company held under the Employee Share Trust and comprise 3,986 ordinary 25p shares (2004: 2,137,111
shares). The future use of these shares is yet to be determined. At 31 December the market value of the shares was £12,277.
11. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Details of Share-Based Payments are provided within note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
12. PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom, assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to the scheme are made and pension cost is assessed using the projected unit method.
Details of the UK Scheme are provided within note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 102.
Principal
Subsidiary
and Associated
Undertakings
The following is a list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group at 31 December 2005, each of which is wholly-owned unless
otherwise stated. A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is filed with the Company’s Annual Return.
ASSOCIATES % owned
CNC International Co. Limited 50 Thailand
*shares held by BBA Group plc.
Country of incorporation
MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY and principal operation
Bidim Industria e Comecio Ltda Brazil
BBA Nonwovens Canada Limited Canada
BBA (China) Airlaid Company Limited China
Fiberweb France S.A. France
BBA Nonwovens Berlin GmbH Germany
Corovin GmbH Germany
Linotec Development GmbH Germany
BBA Nonwovens Asia Pacific Limited Hong Kong
BBA Fiberweb Italia SpA Italy
Korma SpA Italy
BBA Fiberweb Tecnofibra SpA Italy
Tenotex SpA Italy
Veratec de Mexico SA de CV Mexico
BBA Fiberweb Tenotex, SAU Spain
BBA Fiberweb Sweden AB Sweden
Terram Limited* United Kingdom
BBA Nonwovens Simpsonville Incorporated USA
BBA Nonwovens Washougal Incorporated USA
Reemay Incorporated USA
Country of incorporation
AVIATION and principal operation
Signature Flight Support Le Bourget SA France
Signature Flight Support Paris SA France
APPH Limited United Kingdom
APPH Aviation Services Limited United Kingdom
ASIG Limited United Kingdom
Boker Aeroclean Limited United Kingdom
H+S Aviation Limited* United Kingdom
Oxford Aviation Services Limited United Kingdom
Signature Flight Support London Luton Limited United Kingdom
Signature Flight Support Heathrow Limited United Kingdom
Signature Flight Support UK Regions Limited United Kingdom
Aircraft Service International Group, Incorporated USA
Barrett Turbine Engine Company USA
Dallas Airmotive Incorporated USA
Signature Flight Support Corporation USA
Becorit GmbH Germany
  103.
Five Year
Summary
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m
Income Statement
Revenue 1,510.8 1,373.8 1,330.6 1,381.4 1,367.3 
Underlying operating profit (continuing operations)* 129.6 127.1 144.7 155.0 151.5 
Restructuring costs and non-recurring items (48.3) (28.6) (12.7) (15.4) (46.4)
Goodwill amortisation – – (48.1) (22.7) (19.0)
Interest (net) (21.4) (11.9) (16.7) (21.6) (30.0)
Profit before tax 59.9 86.6 67.2 95.3 56.1 
Tax (8.0) (22.3) (26.4) (21.5) (19.6)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 51.9 64.3 40.8 73.8 36.5 
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 1.9 6.4 –– –
Profit/(loss) on disposal of disposed businesses 21.5 (2.8) (12.0) (33.9) (21.5)
Profit for the period 75.3 67.9 28.8 39.9 15.0 
Minority interests (0.2) (0.1) – – (0.1)
Preference dividends – – (3.8) (3.8) (3.8)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 75.1 67.8 25.0 36.1 11.1 
Earnings per share
Basic:
Adjusted 18.3p 19.7p 19.7p 20.4p 18.1p 
Unadjusted 15.9p 14.3p 5.5p 7.9p 2.5p 
Diluted:
Adjusted 18.1p 19.0p 19.6p 20.4p 18.0p 
Unadjusted 15.8p 14.0p 5.5p 7.9p 2.5p 
Dividends
Dividends per ordinary share 11.8p 11.3p 10.8p 10.5p 10.1p 
Balance sheet
Employment of Capital
Non-current assets 1,233.3 1,161.5 1,120.2 1,199.3 1,256.1 
Net current assets 318.6 333.6 293.4 177.2 112.1 
Total assets less current liabilities 1,551.9 1,495.1 1,413.6 1,376.5 1,368.2 
Non-current liabilities (692.9) (697.0) (617.1) (529.9) (495.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (122.9) (126.8) (115.9) (100.8) (103.0)
736.1 671.3 680.6 745.8 770.2 
Capital employed
Called up share capital 121.6 169.0 169.1 171.9 170.8 
Reserves 614.2 502.2 511.5 573.9 598.8 
Shareholders’ funds 735.8 671.2 680.6 745.8 769.6 
Minority interests 0.3 0.1 – – 0.6 
736.1 671.3 680.6 745.8 770.2 
Capital expenditure 72.6 56.9 75.0 85.9 98.3 
Number of employees, end of year 14,070 13,674 12,311 12,837 13,246 
*For UK GAAP years this item represents total operating profit from continuing and discontinued operations. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 104.
Shareholder
Information
ANALYSIS OF Number of % of Number of % of
SHAREHOLDINGS shareholders total shares share 
capital
Size of holding
Ordinary shareholdings at 
31 December 2005
1 - 1,000 2,209 38.38 916,290 0.19
1,001 - 5,000 2,393 41.57 5,475,078 1.13
5,001 - 10,000 375 6.51 2,622,846 0.54
10,001 - 50,000 322 5.59 7,529,903 1.55
50,001 - 100,000 91 1.58 6,595,937 1.36
100,001 - upwards 366 6.36 463,449,531 95.24
5,756 100.00 486,589,585 100.00
Holders
Individuals 3,858 67.02 12,448,799 2.56
Insurance companies 1 0.02 36,894 0.01
Pension funds 35 0.61 2,803,357 0.58
Nominee and other 
companies 1,765 30.66 467,363,662 96.05
Others 97 1.69 3,936,873 0.81
5,756 100.00 486,589,585 100.00
OTHER
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, giving
ordinary shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a
cash dividend. Please contact the Company’s registrars for
further details.
Share dealing services
An ‘execution only’ postal share dealing service is available
through the Company’s stockbroker for the purchase and sale
of BBA Group plc shares. Information is available from
JP Morgan Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Telephone: 020 7155 5155 (direct line).
A share dealing service is also available for UK shareholders
from Capita Share Dealing Services to either sell or buy
BBA Group plc shares. For further information on this service,
please contact:
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing)
0870 4584577 (telephone dealing)
Individual Savings Accounts
The Company offers a Maxi Individual Savings Account (ISA)
through Barclays Stockbrokers Limited for BBA shares and
other qualifying shares and cash. In the tax year ending 5 April
2006, the annual subscription allowance is £7,000 of which a
maximum of £3,000 can be held as cash. In the tax year
beginning 6 April 2006, the annual subscription allowance will
be £7,000 of which a maximum of £3,000 can be held in cash.
To register and receive an information pack, please 
call 0845 6013000. Calls are charged at local rates; you can only
use this number if you are calling from the UK. For clients’
security, calls may be recorded and randomly monitored.
Barclays Stockbrokers is the group name for the business of:
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited, a member of the London Stock
Exchange and OFEX, Registered No 1986161; Barclays
Sharedealing, Registered No 2092410; Barclays Bank Trust
Company Limited, Registered No 920880. All companies are
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
KEY DATES Date payable
Financial calendar
Dividend and interest payments
Ordinary shares:
final 2005 22 May
interim 2006 3 November
5% cumulative preference shares 1 February and 1 August
Date announced
Announcement of Group results
Half year result September
Annual results February
Report and accounts Posted April
Share price information
The price of the Company’s shares is available from the
Financial Times Cityline Service:
BBA Group ordinary shares – telephone: 090 6843 1778 
Calls within the UK are charged at 50p per minute.
Registered office:
20 Balderton Street, London W1K 6TL
Telephone: 020 7514 3999 Fax: 020 7408 2318
http://www.bbagroup.com
web enquiries to: info@bbagroup.com
Company number: 53688
Company registrar:
Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park,
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Telephone: 0870 162 3131
e-mail shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
http://www.capitaregistrars.com
Please contact the registrars directly if you wish to advise
a change of name, address, dividend mandate or wish to
participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
You can access general shareholder information and
personal shareholding details from our registrars’ website.
You will require your unique holder code, which can be found
on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
  BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
BBA GROUP PLC REGISTERED OFFICE
20 BALDERTON STREET  LONDON W1K 6TL
TEL +44(0)20 7514 3999  FAX +44(0)20 7408 2318
COMPANY NUMBER 53688  WWW.BBAGROUP.COM
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
DESIGNED AND PRODUCED BY SASdesign.co.uk
PRINTED BY ST IVES WESTERHAM PRESS
