 Gulf Marine Services PLC 
Annual Report 2015
CONTINUED 
DELIVERY  
IN A 
CHALLENGING 
MARKET
GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC  Annual Report 2015 LEADING THE WA Y 
IN OFFSHORE SUPPORT 
SOLUTIONS FOR THE OIL,  
GAS AND RENEWABLE  
ENERGY INDUSTRIES
Financial Highlights
• Revenue increased by 12% to  
US$ 219.7 million (15% increase  
on a constant currency* basis)  
(2014: US$ 196.6 million).
• Healthy cash flows generated from 
operations, EBITDA up 11% to US$ 
138.5 million (16% increase on a 
constant currency* basis) (2014 
EBITDA: US$ 124.8 million). Good 
EBITDA margin of 63% (2014: 64%).
• Adjusted* net profit after taxation for 
the year increased by 4% to US$ 84.9 
million (2014: US$ 81.3 million excluding 
IPO costs), 11% increase on a constant 
currency* basis. 
• Adjusted* diluted earnings per share 
in the year was broadly flat at 24.05 
cents (2014: 23.71 cents), on a constant 
currency* basis growth was 7%.
• Final dividend for the year proposed 
of 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) per share 
taking total 2015 dividend payments 
to 1.61 pence (2.43 cents).
• Net debt of US$ 398.9 million 
(including obligations under  
finance leases of US$ 94.6 million)  
(2014: US$ 273.6 million) and recently 
negotiated committed undrawn  
bank facilities of US$ 225.0 million  
at 31 December 2015.
• New US$ 620.0 million debt facility 
secured in Q4 2015, improved 
borrowing margins, extended 
maturity and with no change to 
previous covenants. 
 Operational Highlights
• Continued high SESV fleet utilisation 
of 98% in 2015. 
• In 2015 the Group was awarded a new 
long-term contract for a Large Class 
vessel in the MENA region and its first 
decommissioning project was secured 
for a Large Class vessel operating in 
the Southern North Sea.
• A new long-term contract for a Large 
Class vessel operating in the Dutch 
sector of the North Sea commenced 
in 2015.
• Newly designed Mid-Size Class SESVs 
introduced to the fleet and well 
received by clients.
• All three new build vessels were 
delivered on time and within budget in 
the year and proceeded immediately 
to their first charters. 
• Exercise of purchase option to  
acquire the leased SESV Pepper  
for US$ 51.0 million. 
• Very good HSE performance sustained 
during a year of significantly increased 
man hours worked.
• Relocation of our integrated build 
model to a new yard, which will deliver 
greater operational efficiencies.
Outlook
• Secured backlog of US$ 443.9 million 
as at 1 March 2016, comprising US$ 
210.2 million firm and US$ 233.7 million 
extension options. 
• In 2016 EBITDA is expected to be 15 to 
20% lower than in 2015 and earnings 
per share is expected to be 
approximately 25 to 30% lower. 
• Expected peak net debt level in 2016 
of approximately US$ 435.0 million 
before reducing to around US$ 425.0 
million by year end. 
2015 – HIGHLIGHTS 1 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION 
2015 – Highlights IFC
GMS at a Glance 2
Chairman’s Statement 4
STRA TEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20
PERFORMANCE
Operational Review 26
Financial Review 30
Corporate Social Responsibility 32
GOVERNANCE 
Chairman’s Introduction 38
Board of Directors 40
Corporate Governance 42
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 45
Report of the Remuneration Committee 49
Report of the Nomination Committee 61
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 72
Company Financial Statements 102
ADDITIONAL INFORMA TION 
Notice of AGM 114
Glossary 120
Corporate Information IBC
The above highlights are based on the Group’s adjusted 
results. A full reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory results is contained in note 6 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
* Please refer to the Glossary.
•  Working with clients and actively 
expanding the existing services the 
fleet can deliver, with new cost-
effective solutions that will allow GMS 
to target a broader market share by 
supplanting more expensive less 
flexible non-propelled drilling rigs.
• Timing of future fleet expansion 
beyond 2016 will be driven by our 
assessment of factors affecting 
market demand, principally the oil 
price outlook.
• Following completion of the new build 
programme net debt levels should 
reduce and, subject to the market 
outlook, the Group will have the 
capacity to look to increase returns  
to shareholders through the most 
appropriate mechanism at the time. 
• Business model and strategy 
designed to help the Group navigate 
through the current challenging 
market conditions.  2 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
GMS AT A GLANCE
A WORLD LEADER  
IN SESVs
Gulf Marine Services is the operator  
of the world’s largest fleet of advanced  
self-propelled Self-Elevating Support  
Vessels (SESVs). 
About Us
GMS’ assets provide a stable platform 
for the delivery of a wide range of  
services performed by the Group’s clients 
throughout the total lifecycle of offshore 
oil, gas and renewable energy activities.  
The vessels are capable of operations in  
the Middle East, South East Asia, West 
Africa and Europe. 
The Group constructs and maintains  
its vessels at its yard in Abu Dhabi; its 
extensive new build programme makes  
the GMS fleet the most sophisticated in  
the industry. The current fleet of SESVs 
comprises 14 vessels; GMS will increase  
this to 15 vessels by the end of 2016.
Our Offering 
The Group’s SESV fleet is technically 
advanced and amongst the youngest  
in the industry, with an average age of  
seven years. The SESVs are four-legged 
vessels that move independently, with no 
requirement for anchor handling or tug 
support. They have a large deck space, 
crane capacity and accommodation facilities 
that can be adapted to the requirements  
of the Group’s clients. 
 
These vessels support GMS’ clients in  
a broad range of offshore oil and gas 
platform refurbishment and maintenance 
activities, well intervention work and 
offshore wind turbine maintenance  
work (which are opex-led activities) and 
offshore oil and gas platform installation  
and offshore wind turbine installation  
(which are capex-led activities). 
Small Class
• 8 units
• Average age: 11 years 
(8 years excl Naashi)
• Water depth: 45m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
Mid-Size Class
• 3 units
• Average age: less than a year
• Water depth: 55m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Large Class
• 3 units + 1 to be constructed
• Average age: 4 years
• Water depth: 65–80m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Three classes of vessels serve a range of client needs 3 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
GMS Fleet of SESVs 
Large Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Enterprise 2014
GMS Endeavour 2011
GMS Endurance 2010
Mid-Size Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Sharqi 2016
GMS Scirocco 2015
GMS Shamal 2015
Small Class Vessels Year of Delivery
Pepper 2015
Kinoa 2012
Keloa 2009
Kudeta 2008
Kawawa 2006
Kikuyu 2005
Kamikaze 1999
Naashi 1982
History 
GMS was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE  
in 1977. In 2007 the Group was acquired  
by a consortium of investors, led by private 
equity firm Gulf Capital, and a new senior 
management team was appointed, headed  
by the current CEO Duncan Anderson.  
At this time, the Group was operating  
three self-propelled SESVs (with a fourth 
undergoing refurbishment) and had another 
under construction. Within just eight years, 
GMS has successfully expanded its fleet  
and geographical coverage, from a local 
operation in Abu Dhabi to become the  
number one player in the Middle East, and  
is now the largest operator of self-propelled 
SESVs in the world. The Group listed on the 
London Stock Exchange in March 2014.
The current SESV fleet stands at 14  
vessels (as at March 2016); it also has an 
accommodation barge and two anchor-
handling tug support (AHTS) vessels.
The first Large Class vessel, which opened 
up a market sector where vessels can 
operate in harsh weather and deeper water 
environments, was constructed in 2010, with 
a second delivered in 2011. In 2010 when GMS 
Endurance was completed it was initially 
deployed in Saudi Arabia, whilst the second, 
GMS Endeavour, was mobilised to the North 
Sea; both markets were a first for GMS and 
allowed the Group to continue its growth 
strategy and to expand its geographic and 
client footprint beyond the UAE where it had 
predominantly been working up to that time. 
GMS operated entirely in the oil and gas 
sector until 2011 when it entered the offshore 
wind power installation market in North West 
Europe with one of its Large Class vessels, 
GMS Endeavour. 
In 2014 GMS embarked on a programme  
to expand the fleet by a further six SESVs. 
Five of these vessels have been successfully 
delivered on time and within budget and the 
sixth one, GMS Evolution, is scheduled for 
completion at the end of 2016.
The information in this section is as of 1 March 2016.
GMS Supports:
 – Well intervention services 
and enhanced oil recovery
 – Drilling support, completions  
and testing
 – Platform construction, 
hookup and commissioning
 – Platform restoration and 
maintenance
 – Coil tubing, wireline  
and snubbing
 – Well abandonment and 
decommissioning
 – Wind turbine installation  
and maintenance 4 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
I am very pleased to 
be introducing Gulf 
Marine Services’ 
second Annual Report. 
The Group performed 
very well in 2015 
against a background 
of low oil prices, 
successfully delivering 
on its business 
strategy.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 5 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
We can report a solid set of results for 2015. 
Revenue has grown 12% to US$ 219.7 million 
and EBITDA increased to US$ 138.5 million, 
with a continued good EBITDA margin  
of 63% (2014: 64%). Adjusted* net profit 
after taxation rose to US$ 84.9 million and 
adjusted* diluted earnings per share in  
the year was broadly flat at 24.05 cents. 
During 2015, three new build vessels were 
delivered on time and within budget and  
all three proceeded directly to their first 
contracts in the Middle East. Fleet expansion 
continues to be part of our strategy. Further 
additions to the fleet beyond 2016 are still  
to be decided upon and will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
 
An existing Large Class vessel commenced  
a new long-term contract in the Middle East 
and a further Large Class vessel was also 
chartered to a new long-term contract  
in Europe. 
As at 1 March 2016, our backlog stands at 
US$ 443.9 million, with approximately 50%  
of this being contracted during 2015 when 
the oil price averaged US$ 53.0 a barrel. 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend for the year 
of 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) per share subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
11 May 2016 and this will be paid on 16 May 
2016. The total dividend for the year is 1.61 
pence per share (2.43 cents) representing 
10% of adjusted* net profit. The Group’s 
dividend policy looks to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect GMS’ strong 
earnings and cash flow characteristics, while 
allowing the retention of sufficient capital to 
invest in long-term growth for the Group.  
As the period of intensive capital investment 
associated with the current new build 
programme concludes in 2016, the Board  
will consider the potential for further 
increased shareholder returns.
Throughout 2015 we continued to seek  
ways to enhance our offering. Early in 2016 
we were proud to announce that we are at 
the advanced design stage of a bespoke 
cantilever system for our SESVs. We 
anticipate that this exciting innovation will 
help to widen significantly the scope of work 
opportunities in supporting well services for 
GMS. Further information on this is included 
later in this report. 
In 2015 we saw a marked reduction in the  
oil price compared to recent years and this 
hampered the rate of growth we delivered in 
the year. While we are protected against the 
current market challenges to some extent  
as most of our operations are brownfield 
opex-related, with the majority of our 
vessels working in the low production cost 
MENA region, we did see some pressure on 
EBITDA margins in the latter part of 2015. 
We expect that a sustained low oil price will 
have a continued compression effect in 2016. 
While it is difficult currently to assess 
accurately what the impact on our trading 
will be, we are focused on maintaining vessel 
utilisation and our business model and 
strategy will help us continue our ongoing 
successful operations. 
As detailed elsewhere in this report, it  
has been a particularly busy year for the 
organisation. As staffing levels increased 
and the number of man hours worked rose 
significantly to 7.7 million, we maintained  
our focus on upholding our high levels of 
health and safety across the business and 
sustained a very good safety performance.  
I would like to take this opportunity to 
recognise and commend all staff and 
contractors, both onshore and offshore,  
for their hard work during the year and for 
successfully executing a significant number 
of projects. 
Looking forward, the Group is well-funded, 
with a healthy balance sheet and good 
operating margins. I am confident that under 
the leadership of our CEO Duncan Anderson 
and his strong management team, GMS is  
in a good position to manage the current 
challenges facing the industry. 
Simon Heale
Chairman
21 March 2016
* Please refer to the Glossary. 6 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 7 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20 8 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
GMS performed solidly 
in 2015. We maintained 
very high utilisation 
and good charter  
rates overall while 
successfully delivering 
on our business 
strategy to expand 
our fleet of SESVs  
and grow the business, 
although a background 
of low oil prices did 
hamper our rate of 
growth in 2015. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Group Financial Performance
Revenue increased by 12% compared to 
2014 to US$ 219.7 million (2014: US$ 196.6 
million). On a constant currency* basis the 
increase in revenue was 15%. During the 
year adjusted* net profit after taxation 
increased by 4% to US$ 84.9 million (2014: 
US$ 81.3 million excluding IPO costs), 11% 
increase on a constant currency* basis. 
EBITDA increased to US$ 138.5 million  
(2014: US$ 124.8 million after adding back 
non-operational IPO costs), with a good 
EBITDA margin of 63% (2014: 64%). The 
proposed final dividend for the year is 
recommended to be 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) 
per share subject to shareholders’ approval 
at the AGM on 11 May 2016 and this will be 
paid on 16 May 2016, giving a total dividend 
for the year of 1.61 pence (2.43 cents). 
The Group was pleased to announce in  
Q4 2015 a new US$ 620 million debt facility, 
which both extends the maturity of our  
debt profile and delivers lower borrowing 
margins. There was US$ 225.0 million of 
undrawn bank facilities at 31 December 2015, 
providing security of financing for the 
foreseeable future.
 
High Fleet Utilisation
GMS has maintained its very high SESV 
utilisation level achieving a rate of 98% in 
2015. Our cost-effective offshore solutions 
are continuing to be employed by our clients 
seeking to extract maximum value from  
their assets while minimising costs; this has 
become increasingly relevant in the current 
low oil price environment.
Order Book
The Group has a secured backlog of  
US$ 443.9 million as at 1 March 2016 
(comprising firm and extension options for 
existing charters); approximately 50% of this 
backlog was secured in 2015 when the oil 
price averaged US$ 53.0 per barrel. The 
backlog has been adjusted to reflect a known 
reduction in contract period agreed after this 
date for one of our Small Class vessels. 
The majority of our work is brownfield 
opex-related, which continues to be helpful 
as we navigate the current challenges facing 
the industry. During the year, we were 
pleased to win a major new long-term 
contract (four years including options to 
extend) in MENA for a Large Class SESV that 
commenced in Q1 2015. In 2015 we delivered 
three new build SESVs to their first new 
charters in MENA. Another Large Class 
SESV was chartered to a new long-term 
contract (four years including options to 
extend) in the Dutch sector of the North Sea. 
 
Operations
Health, safety and the environment (HSE) 
continues to be our top priority, with the 
lives of everyone with whom we work, and 
others who are impacted by our activities, 
dependent on us upholding our high 
standards. We take very seriously the 
requirement to provide both our employees 
and subcontracted personnel with a safe 
working environment and one of the ways 
we achieve this is by including all our 
subcontractors, who number in excess  
of 500 people during heavy new build 
construction phases, in our HSE coaching 
and performance monitoring. 
We sustained a very good health and  
safety performance throughout the year. 
While the number of man hours worked in 
2015 rose to 7.7 million (2014: 4.8 million) the 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)* for  
the year improved to 0.18 (2014: 0.25). We  
will maintain our focus on HSE, with zero 
incidents continuing to be the target. 
We have a fleet of 14 SESVs (as at March 
2016, including GMS Sharqi) with the majority 
located in the Middle East and two in Europe. 
The SESVs have been primarily engaged in 
well services and accommodation support  
in 2015. GMS Sharqi was only recently 
completed at the end of Q1 2016 and  
we are actively seeking a first charter. 
The GMS SESV fleet is the largest in the 
world and it is one of the youngest, with an 
average vessel age of just seven years. In 
2015 we were especially pleased to introduce 
the new Mid-Size Class to the fleet, which 
has been very well received by our clients. 
By operating such a modern fleet, we are 
able to provide our clients with cost-effective 
deployment methods and substantial 
operational efficiencies that are not typically 
offered by older less sophisticated vessels. 
The fleet performed very well during 2015 
and while we had a significant number of 
special projects during the year, the majority 
of which were bespoke modifications or 
mobilisations requested by our clients for 
new charters, we maintained a very high 
vessel utilisation level of 98% across the 
SESV fleet for the days available for charter. 
Charter rates sustained some downward 
pressure towards the end of the year 
primarily as a reflection of the fall in oil price. 
* Please refer to the Glossary. 10 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
We are very conscious of managing  
our costs appropriately in the current 
environment. However, when utilisation is 
high there is limited scope for material cost 
reductions as certain operating costs for 
vessels tend to remain relatively fixed. If 
utilisation levels were to reduce, there  
would be more flexibility to make further 
cost savings. 
In 2015 we successfully integrated the 
simulator we launched the previous year 
into our bespoke command course for our 
masters and masters in training; this is part 
of our strategy to ensure we have sufficient 
appropriately-skilled crew to command our 
vessels now and in the future. The simulator 
has increased training opportunities, 
operational efficiency and cost-savings and 
the first tranche of senior officers graduated 
during the year. 
In-House Build, Maintenance  
and Modification 
We are both the builder and operator of our 
own SESV fleet, with our well-established 
in-house build model enabling us to design, 
build, maintain and modify our vessels 
ourselves. We are able to construct our 
vessels up to 30% cheaper than our peers 
who rely on external shipyards; we also 
achieve considerable cost-savings by 
carrying out repairs, modifications and 
mobilisations at our own shipyard in the 
Middle East. Towards the end of 2015 we 
relocated our yard to a new, larger facility  
at Zayed Port in Abu Dhabi and this will 
significantly increase our operational 
efficiency and will allow us to carry out  
more of our own fabrication work in-house. 
I am pleased to report that, in December 
2015, we exercised our option to purchase 
the leased SESV Pepper for US$ 51.0 million, 
a new Small Class vessel we introduced to 
the fleet in Q1 2015; this transaction was 
completed in Q1 2016 and we believe that 
this represents an appropriate use of capital 
given the returns expected from acquiring 
this asset. 
2015 was an exceptionally busy year for  
the new build, modifications and special 
project teams. Three new SESVs were 
delivered on time and within budget in the 
first nine months alone. GMS Sharqi was 
then delivered in Q1 2016. The Large Class 
vessel GMS Evolution, which will complete 
the current new build programme, is 
scheduled for delivery in Q4 2016. Further 
fleet expansion beyond this, which will be  
on a vessel-by-vessel basis, has yet to be 
decided upon and will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
Markets
Middle East
We continue to be the leading SESV operator 
in the Middle East, where a high level of 
demand characterised the market in 2015. 
Our vessels in the region are chartered  
to clients who are very familiar with the 
cost-effective advantages our assets bring 
to brownfield maintenance, well intervention 
and enhanced oil recovery operations. Low 
production costs and demanding production 
targets have meant that both opex and 
capex-related activities have continued 
throughout the year. However, the sustained 
lower oil price will mean that operators  
in the region will continue to focus on cost 
reductions with inevitable pressure on day 
rates expected across the industry in 2016. 
Although four new quasi competitor vessels 
entered the regional market in 2015 (two of 
these vessels are not self-propelled and the 
remaining two vessels’ jacking systems are 
unsuited to the frequent jacking 
requirements of well services) we believe 
these vessels are really only suited to 
construction support projects rather than  
in well servicing where we predominantly 
operate. Accordingly, we expect the 
opex-related activities that provide much  
of the demand for our fleet to remain 
stronger relative to the capex/construction 
market in 2016. 
Europe
2015 saw the successful startup of a 
long-term contract in the Dutch sector  
of the North Sea on one of our Large Class 
SESVs. A significant milestone was also 
reached when our second Large Class SESV 
operating in the region transitioned from  
a maintenance to decommissioning role, 
remaining with the same client. We have 
been seeking to diversify into the 
decommissioning sector and this first 
charter demonstrated our ability to adapt 
our vessels to suit different types of work 
and changing market conditions. The vessel 
is carrying out the work very successfully 
and has been commended by our client. As 
decommissioning activity in the UKCS*, and 
elsewhere in the world, increases we would 
anticipate more business opportunities for 
GMS in this area. 
The introduction of the Mid-Size Class 
vessels in 2015 has provided us with greater 
flexibility on specification and pricing when 
bidding for shallower water contracts. 
However, in the second half of 2015 there 
was little new work starting up for short or 
long-term contracts in either the renewables 
or oil and gas sectors. Whilst GMS vessels  
in the region have remained fully utilised, a 
number of competitor vessels remained idle 
and we are likely to see strong competition 
for new opportunities in this region while oil 
prices remain low.
Rest of World
There have been limited opportunities 
outside of our core markets in 2015, with this 
a reflection of the lower oil price environment 
as clients defer work. However, we would still 
look to West Africa and South East Asia as 
good potential markets in the future. 
* Please refer to the Glossary.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 11 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Our Enhanced Offering –  
Well Intervention Services
We are actively seeking to broaden the 
services that we can offer from our vessels, 
particularly in competition with those 
provided by high operating cost and 
inflexible drilling rigs.
During 2015 we continued to build up our 
expertise in well intervention services and 
are developing cantilever systems for our 
Mid-Size Class and Large Class SESVs. The 
cantilever systems will allow GMS to deliver 
existing well intervention services more 
efficiently and quickly, and to provide a 
greater range of services from our SESVs. 
The delivery of our first large cantilever 
heavy well intervention system at the end  
of 2016, which will be installed on GMS 
Evolution, will enable GMS to compete for 
workover activity previously only able to be 
carried out from jackup drilling units. Unlike 
drilling rigs, the GMS SESV fleet is entirely 
self-propelled and does not require tugs or 
similar support vessels for moves between 
locations in the field; this makes them 
significantly more cost-effective and 
time-efficient than conventional offshore 
support vessels without self-propulsion, 
such as drilling rigs. We strongly believe  
this will be an attractive proposition for our 
clients both in the current market and when 
oil prices increase. 
Our People
Our people are at the very heart of our 
business. We employ personnel from more 
than 50 countries and are fortunate to 
benefit from the rich diversity this brings  
to GMS. 2015 was our busiest new build 
period in three decades. I would like to  
take this opportunity to personally thank  
all our staff for their dedication to GMS  
and continued commitment to maintaining  
our high standards. 
Outlook
The turbulence we have seen in oil and gas 
markets in 2015, we expect to continue 
throughout 2016. In recent conversations 
with clients it is clear that they continue to 
seek incremental cost savings both through 
the efficiencies that we can deliver through 
better working practices and innovative 
offerings, through lower charter rates,  
and in one instance, through the early 
termination of an existing vessel contract.  
In these demanding conditions, our focus is 
to maximise vessel utilisation and as a result 
we expect pressure on margins in 2016. 
While it is difficult at present to quantify with 
certainty what the impact on our trading will 
be, based on our expectations for existing 
charters and the timing and terms of new 
contracts, we currently expect EBITDA in 
2016 to be 15 to 20% lower than in 2015 and 
earnings per share (reflecting the increased 
depreciation charge for the enlarged fleet) 
to be approximately 25 to 30% lower. 
Expected peak net debt level for GMS in 
2016 is approximately US$ 435.0 million 
before reducing to around US$ 425.0 million 
by year end. Following completion of the 
new build programme net debt levels should 
reduce and, subject to the market outlook, 
the Group will have the capacity to look to 
increase returns to shareholders through 
the most appropriate mechanism at the time. 
In terms of future fleet expansion, whilst 
there are no current plans to increase our 
fleet size beyond 2016, the addition of any 
vessels in the future will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
 
We will continue to help our clients achieve 
cost efficiencies through the provision of  
our low cost, flexible and efficient vessels. 
We are also developing new cost-effective 
solutions that offer the Group the 
opportunity to target a broader market 
share by supplanting more expensive  
and less flexible non-propelled drilling rigs. 
We are confident that our opex focused 
business model, our state of the art SESV 
fleet and leading operational expertise will 
ensure the Group navigates through the 
current challenging market conditions. 
 
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2016
  12 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
CREA TE 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
OUR CORE V ALUES
Excellence
Enhance our O ﬀering
Innovate and
Clients
Business Partners
Investors
Sta ﬀ
Communities and Wider Society
Governments
Excellence Deliver Operational
Recurring Contracts
Focus on Long- T erm
O ﬀshore Support Vessels
and Modify Sophisticated
Design, Build, Maintain
our People
Continuously Develop
 (HSE) Performance
Safety and Environmental
Maintain the Highest Levels of Health,
Relationships
Responsibility
OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR KEY ST AKEHOLDERS
This service enables our clients primarily  
to carry out maintenance, modification and 
well services work on their offshore facilities, 
by providing a stable platform immediately 
adjacent to the facility. The vessel allows  
the storage and application of materials  
and equipment necessary for the client’s 
work, and for the accommodation of  
the workforce. 
We have developed an integrated approach 
focused around six key areas in order to 
deliver this business model.
Innovate and Enhance our Offering 
We have a long history of satisfying  
the requirements of our national and 
international oil company clients with our 
experience, technical expertise and ability to 
modify and enhance our vessels enabling us 
to efficiently address their evolving needs. 
We work alongside our clients to ensure the 
design and construction of our new vessels 
meets their expectations in terms of 
operational efficiency, safety and cost; our 
ability to further develop our offering at the 
design stage gives us a clear advantage 
over competitors who have to place their 
orders with third party shipbuilders. 
Through close collaboration with clients  
on a project-by-project basis, GMS offers a 
cost-effective model that provides optimum 
efficiency and minimum non-productive time 
during clients’ mobilisations or operations, 
whilst maintaining the flexible multi-role 
design as part of the Group’s core strategy 
for high utilisation. 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE  
FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Our business model is centred on the provision of highly cost-effective and sophisticated  
self-propelled self-elevating support vessels (SESVs) to clients operating in the offshore  
energy sector. 
The diagram above represents the Group’s business. The outer circle represents the environment in which GMS works. Within the image, 
our core values, which are central to everything we do, are captured along with the business model we apply to create shareholder value. 13 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Deliver Operational Excellence 
We continually strive for excellence in  
all aspects of our operations. Our skilled 
employees provide our clients with  
safe and high quality services from a fleet  
of sophisticated SESVs. In addition, we are 
continually looking for ways to improve  
our offering through significant market 
knowledge and experience, technical 
expertise, client collaboration and by 
forming strategic business partnerships. 
GMS offers a range of benefits to its clients, 
resulting in greater operational efficiency and 
significant time and cost savings for them, 
along with high utilisation and premium day 
rates for GMS. All of our SESVs have rapid 
jacking capability and have a four-leg design 
with better stability and jacking speed 
relative to three-leg SESVs. In addition,  
all of our SESVs are self-propelled and the 
Large Class and Mid-Size Class vessel designs 
include DP2, a dynamic positioning system 
that enhances the ability of SESVs  
to safely manoeuvre close to our clients’ 
offshore installations. These features also 
allow the vessels to move faster in-field than 
conventional non-propelled vessels. This 
competitive advantage for multi-move well 
location work particularly lends itself to well 
services projects, whereby our clients can 
save considerable expense using one of our 
vessels instead of a more expensive drilling 
rig. We are focused on ensuring the efficient 
management of our fleet, with our in-house 
maintenance programme ensuring timely 
repairs and routine maintenance have 
minimal effect on operations. 
Focus on Long-Term  
and Recurring Contracts 
The Group’s revenue is principally generated 
by the charter day rates we charge for each 
vessel. We target long-term contracts  
and our priority is to deliver high vessel 
utilisation, which provides the benefit  
of more predictable cash flows. 
GMS is active in the opex phase of the oil  
and gas cycle, predominantly supporting 
long-term oil production, traditionally in 
maintenance, refurbishment, repair and well 
services, and more recently expanding into 
well decommissioning. This means GMS is 
less prone to the cyclical nature of the oil 
industry than many oil service companies 
exposed to the capex-led exploration and 
development phases. The contract length 
for a Small Class vessel is usually three to 
five years, while for the Large Class vessels 
it typically ranges from one to four years. 
Contracts normally include both a firm and 
extension period; the extension period is at 
the client’s discretion and historically 90%  
of these periods have been exercised. 
Nearly all of the Group’s revenue is sourced 
from the opex-led activities of our clients, 
who generally will have an ongoing 
requirement for a SESV once all available 
option periods have been exercised. As the 
incumbent operator, GMS is well-placed  
to win recurring work when the renewal 
contract is tendered and we have been  
very successful in securing renewal 
contracts. This is demonstrated by two  
of our Small Class vessels, which between 
them have amassed more than 40 years  
of back-to-back contracts with the same 
clients, carrying out the same service. 
Design, Build, Maintain and  
Modify Sophisticated Offshore 
Support Vessels 
GMS has in excess of 35 years’ experience in 
the design and construction of SESVs solely 
for our own use. Our quayside construction 
facility in Abu Dhabi provides us with the 
in-house resource to speedily adapt or 
repair our vessels without relying on third 
parties; any client-requested modifications 
can be made to the vessels at minimum cost 
and time to our clients. 
The construction of an SESV takes around 
18 months with the four main processes 
being procurement of vessel components, 
hull construction that is outsourced to 
competitive yards, assembly at our yard in 
Abu Dhabi and commissioning. Since GMS  
is both builder and operator, we can closely 
manage our construction programme and 
are therefore well-placed to gear our fleet 
expansion programme according to our  
view of market demand.
Our ability to build SESVs for ourselves is 
essential to our low-cost integrated build 
model that allows management to better 
control the quality, componentry and 
timelines of delivery whilst also enabling 
construction of the vessels at around 30% 
cheaper than at a traditional shipyard. We 
can also respond rapidly to clients’ requests 
for bespoke specifications that can be 
efficiently incorporated at the build stage.  
In 2015, we successfully introduced a new 
class of vessel to the fleet, the Mid-Size 
SESV, in response to our clients’ evolving 
requirements and to widen our offering in 
line with our plans for continued growth.  
Our experience and flexibility enables us  
to bid on a wide variety of tenders. 
Maintain the Highest Levels of 
Health, Safety and Environmental 
(HSE) Performance 
We place a high priority on managing the 
risks inherent to our operations and comply 
with national and international HSE standards. 
We employ an integrated management 
system covering the quality, health, safety 
and environmental principles and objectives 
of our business, which is implemented 
throughout all offshore and onshore 
operations. This aims to provide innovative 
and sustainable solutions to monitor our 
HSE performance and continuously improve 
the necessary safeguards to protect our 
employees and minimise the impact on the 
environment. This system is fully ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 compliant,  
is externally audited and accredited, and  
is continually reviewed to capture best 
practice changes issued by the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers. We 
have also developed successfully UK and 
Dutch sector North Sea Safety Cases for the 
operation of our Large SESVs in that region. 
Information on our environmental reporting 
can be found on page 35.
Health and safety are considered by our 
clients when assessing bids for tenders  
and we regard our performance in this  
area as an advantage. We have consistently 
maintained low levels of lost time injuries 
(LTIs, meaning an injury that requires one or 
more days off work). Further details on our 
HSE performance can be found on page 27. 
Continuously Develop our People 
GMS operates in an industry where staff 
mobility rates are relatively high and as such, 
we seek to attract and retain high-calibre 
staff and ensure they are empowered to 
carry out their duties safely and effectively. 
We value the diversity of our employees and 
provide an environment where everyone  
can perform to their full potential and be 
rewarded for delivering excellence. 
The niche nature of our sector means that 
skilled and capable offshore crew members 
are traditionally in limited supply (however, 
the current low oil price environment has 
resulted in a wider talent pool currently 
available for certain roles) and we therefore 
pay attention to growing talent from within  
our organisation. We have a Competence 
Management System (CMS) in place based 
on recognised industry best practice.  
Its purpose is the integrated control of  
those activities within the Company that  
will assure competency of personnel, 
particularly in safety critical activities. 
Annual assessments are carried out for 
offshore personnel to ensure appropriate 
certification and competence to undertake 
operational roles. 
Competency gaps are closed via training 
supported by the GMS Academy. Much of the 
GMS Academy training is knowledge-based 
and delivered via computer-based training 
which employees are able to access at any 
time, irrespective of their location. However, 
all Academy training is supplemented with 
the coaching and mentoring of crew by their 
officers and complimented by the Group’s 
Offshore Performance Coaches who are 
responsible for embedding the knowledge 
delivered via the GMS Academy through 
effective real-time coaching. We also have  
a wide range of development initiatives, such 
as an externally accredited management 
development programme, our simulator 
programme for our Masters, and Fleet 
Management programmes. Further detail  
can be found in our Performance section  
on pages 26 and 27. 14 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
OUR STRATEGY
The Group’s core business consists of well support and maintenance 
services and the provision of accommodation in the offshore oil and gas 
sector. In the offshore wind energy sector we provide support services 
for installation, commissioning and maintenance. Our vessels operate 
exclusively in shallow waters, in depths of up to 80 metres. We continue 
to see the more stable demand going forward for our vessels in 
brownfield oil and gas opex-related work and further growth potential  
in well intervention activities, enhanced oil recovery work and 
decommissioning and plug and abandonment activities.
The four key principles of our strategy are set out below.
1. Provide Vessel Flexibility and  
Measured Fleet Expansion
GMS’ ability to design, build, 
maintain and modify its own 
technologically advanced fleet  
of modern SESVs has proved 
particularly helpful in the 
challenging oil price environment. 
The Group is able to deliver 
economies and efficiencies to  
its clients and is ideally placed  
to maintain competitive charter 
rates while also benefitting from  
the reward of high vessel utilisation.
The Group’s assets provide a stable 
platform from which a diverse range of 
services are carried out by our clients 
throughout the total lifecycle of offshore  
oil, gas and renewable energy activities. 
Our capability to modify our assets at our 
own in-house construction facility to suit  
the requirements of our clients’ operations, 
in short timescales, means we can often 
offer more cost-effective and time-efficient 
offshore solutions than our competitors.  
Our ability to ensure the flexibility of our 
existing vessels, and the fact that we can 
also enhance our offering at the design 
stage of our new build vessels, has proved 
advantageous when winning and executing 
work in different sectors of our market and 
we will continue to communicate these 
important benefits to our clients. 
Flexibility is the key to maintaining our high 
vessel utilisation and in order to preserve 
our competitive advantage and to increase 
our own operational efficiency, we relocated 
our construction and maintenance facility to 
a larger yard in Abu Dhabi at the end of 
2015/early 2016. When market conditions 
are favourable, accelerated growth of our 
market share is best achieved through 
measured fleet expansion. We increased  
our fleet of SESVs from nine to 13 vessels 
during the period 2014 to 2015 and, following 
another addition in early 2016, we now  
have 14 SESVs; a further vessel is due to be 
delivered towards the end of 2016. Future 
fleet expansion will be considered on a 
vessel-by-vessel basis according to our view 
on market demand and investment return. 
More information on vessel flexibility is 
available on page 17. 15 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
2. Maximise our Operational  
Expertise
GMS has a successful track  
record that spans more than  
three decades and having a team  
of highly experienced and skilled 
employees is a major advantage  
in an increasingly competitive 
industry. Our operational and 
technical expertise enables us to 
provide safe and effective solutions 
to our clients’ needs whilst upholding 
our reputation as a quality provider 
of an advanced and adaptable fleet. 
Our technical knowledge and experience  
in the construction of the SESVs we operate 
enable us to adapt our vessels efficiently  
in order to meet client-specific requirements, 
which in turn results in greater operational 
efficiency. The provision of highly 
sophisticated SESVs with comprehensive 
maintenance programmes, excellent client 
services and our in-depth knowledge  
of the markets in which we operate will 
continue to be our primary drivers when  
it comes to upholding exceptionally high 
operational standards. 
The Group also has a strong reputation  
born out of our commitment to safety, 
quality, innovation and delivery. While we 
believe we offer the best offshore solution, 
we are also continually looking to develop  
in terms of design and aim to exceed 
regulatory requirements and best practice. 
Our partnership with Abu Dhabi Ports 
Company to successfully develop a SESV 
simulator to better assess and train our 
senior offshore personnel demonstrates  
our continued pursuit of operational 
excellence. More information on the 
simulator can be found on page 27. 16 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED
We take a disciplined approach to making 
new investments and to how these are 
financed and have been significantly 
growing our business through fleet 
expansion. We target (and are currently 
exceeding) a minimum return on capital of 
over 20% prior to commencing construction 
of a new SESV. We seek to maximise returns 
through a prudent approach to borrowing 
by not exceeding a target net debt to 
EBITDA ratio of three times at the peak 
periods of our new build programmes.
Our integrated build model substantially 
reduces the whole-life cost of vessel 
construction, modification and fleet 
maintenance compared to outsourcing  
to third parties. It also provides us with  
far more flexibility to manage the timetable 
for these projects than would be possible  
by relying on an external shipyard.
GMS targets blue chip companies as  
clients and our strong secured backlog  
with long-term contracts provides good 
revenue visibility on future earnings. We 
believe that the high degree of contracted 
future revenues and strong cash flow from 
operations combine to support the prudent 
capital structure within the Group.
The Group’s dividend policy will look to 
maximise shareholder value and reflect  
GMS’ strong earnings potential and cash 
flow characteristics, while allowing the 
retention of sufficient capital to fund 
ongoing operating requirements and to 
invest in the Group’s long-term growth.
3. Seek Growth Opportunities in Existing and New Markets
The Group continues to be very well-positioned in the low production cost 
MENA region and is maintaining its presence in North West Europe. The 
expansion of our fleet provides the potential to increase our offering in our 
existing markets and to enter new regions where we believe the demand 
for our vessels exists in the longer term.
4. Ensure Responsible Financial Management
We seek to manage the finances of the business in a prudent manner, 
looking for sensible opportunities to invest to grow the business, but also 
recognising the value to shareholders of increased returns.
The primary demand for our SESVs in the 
MENA and North West Europe regions is  
in the brownfield market within the oil and 
gas sector. The brownfield market covers  
a broad range of repair and maintenance 
support services, including well and subsea 
maintenance services, for existing oil and 
gas fields. GMS will continue to capitalise on 
the inherent maintenance and modification 
support requirement of ageing offshore 
structures, with our vessels providing the 
stable platform from which clients can carry 
out diverse operations. The Group secured 
its first well decommissioning project during 
2015, establishing GMS as an early entrant 
into this potentially significant market; our 
intention is to seek further contract 
opportunities in this sector. In addition,  
and as part of our continued growth plans, 
we will be introducing new well intervention 
capabilities during 2016 which will result  
in the Group being able to offer its clients  
a more efficient and cost-effective solution  
in a sphere of activity that is currently 
dominated by more expensive non-propelled 
drilling rigs.
The offshore renewable energy market  
is less mature than the oil and gas market 
and there is currently less demand for 
maintenance services as the infrastructure 
is, on the whole, relatively new. However,  
as a critical mass of installed capacity is 
reached, it is expected that the demand  
for maintenance work on these assets will 
increase. GMS has previous experience in 
this sector and this, combined with the 
flexibility of our assets, places us in a good 
position to maximise opportunities in this 
maturing market as it develops. 17 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The Group’s SESVs are chartered to a 
high-quality worldwide client base and  
are used as customised work platforms  
for offshore oil, gas and renewable  
energy sectors. 
The vessels are operated by skilled 
employees and support our clients in a 
broad range of offshore oil and gas platform 
refurbishment and maintenance activities, 
well intervention work, decommissioning and 
offshore wind turbine maintenance work 
(which are opex-led activities) and offshore 
oil and gas platform installation and offshore 
wind turbine installation (which are 
capex-led activities). 
Our fleet of young and technically advanced 
SESVs has a niche and non-commoditised 
nature that allows competition against a 
diverse range of marine assets, including 
drilling rigs, accommodation service barges 
(non-propelled) and floating construction 
vessels. The SESVs are four-legged vessels 
that move independently and have a  
large deck space, crane capacity and 
accommodation facilities that can be readily 
adapted to the requirements of the Group’s 
clients. We are currently reviewing the 
option to enhance the heavy lift capabilities 
of our vessels to further expand our well 
intervention offering to our clients.
The four-legged design represents a 
significant competitive advantage over the 
more traditional non-propelled, three-legged 
barges available in the market in terms of 
both speed in jacking and safety. The SESVs 
are all self-propelled. The Large Class and 
Mid-Size Class vessel designs include DP2,  
a dynamic positioning system that enhances 
the ability of the SESVs to safely manoeuvre 
close to clients’ offshore installations. These 
features all enable an increase in the speed 
of movement around a client’s field of assets 
and remove the need for costly support 
vessels. Some of the specific benefits of  
our fleet are:
• Well intervention activities which require 
frequent changes in location are ideally 
suited to our self-propelled units. 
• The ability to relocate quickly within  
small weather windows allows our clients 
to work more efficiently. This in turn 
provides them with an immediate benefit 
through increased production as a result 
of the intervention performed.
• Accommodation can be installed, for  
150 to 300 persons, along with multiple 
access routes to the client facility. This 
allows clients to simultaneously open up 
multiple work fronts and achieve high 
levels of productivity.
• The high-capacity cranes are able to 
support construction and commissioning 
activities offshore where specialist crane 
barges would have previously been 
required, in addition to the 
accommodation barge.
GMS’ VESSEL FLEXIBILITY IS  
THE KEY TO HIGH UTILISATION
GMS provides a stable platform to support a variety  
of clients’ needs. This flexibility and our technological  
capabilities are reflected in our high vessel utilisation. 
TOPSIDE MAINTENANCE
COMMISSIONING AND 
ACCOMMODATION
WELL INTERVENTION 18 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Group uses a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to 
measure its performance and review the impact of its business strategy. 
The financial and operational KPIs adopted are kept under review to 
ensure that we focus on achieving our strategic objectives whilst 
addressing the principal risks facing the Group.
KPI Description Performance in 2015
Revenue and Utilisation Revenue reflects the value of operating activities  
and is derived primarily from the day rates and 
utilisation levels achieved.
SESV utilisation is the percentage of days SESVs are 
chartered on a day rate out of total available days.
The 12% growth in revenue primarily 
reflects the increase in fleet size 
combined with maintained high 
utilisation rates of SESVs.
Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA is a key profit measure and  
means earnings before interest, tax, depreciation  
and amortisation, excluding non-operational items. 
Adjusted EBITDA margin demonstrates our ability  
to convert revenue into profit.
Adjusted EBITDA rose by 11% from 
2014, reflecting the increase in 
revenue from the fleet. 
The Group’s adjusted EBITDA margin 
remained strong overall in 2015 with a 
continued focus on cost management.
Adjusted Net Income and DEPS Adjusted net income measures the net profitability  
of the business excluding non-operational items.
Adjusted DEPS means fully diluted earnings  
per share, which measures the level of net  
profit excluding exceptional items per ordinary  
share outstanding.
Adjusted net income rose by 4%  
in 2015 reflecting an improved 
performance during the year.
The levels of DEPS have remained 
relatively consistent year-on-year.
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Net debt to adjusted EBITDA is the ratio of net debt 
(including finance lease obligations) at year end to 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, excluding non-operational items. 
This KPI demonstrates the Group’s level of 
borrowing against operating cash flows.
The net debt to adjusted EBITDA 
ratio has risen as expected in 2015 
reflecting the increased further 
drawdown of funds to help finance 
the ongoing investment in the new 
build programme.
DEPS – Adjusted DEPS Bars – Adjusted Net Income
% – Adjusted EBITDA Margin Bars – Adjusted EBITDA
% – SESV utilisation Bars – Revenue
US$ 50
US$ 100
US$ 150
0
US$ 250
US$ 200
2013 2014 2015
US$ 184m
US$ 197m
US$ 220m
94%
97%
98%
US$ 30
US$ 60
US$ 90
0
US$ 150
US$ 120
2013 2014 2015
US$ 125m US$ 125m
US$ 139m 68%64%
63%
US$ 20
US$ 40
US$ 60
0
US$ 100
US$ 80
2013 20142015
US$ 72m
US$ 81m
US$ 85m
DEPS
US$ 0.24
DEPS
US$ 0.24
DEPS
US$ 0.24
1
2
0
3
2013 2014 2015
2.46
2.19
2.88 19 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
KPI Description Performance in 2015
Backlog Backlog shows the total order book of contracts 
(comprising firm and option periods) at year end. 
The Group uses this KPI as an indication of future 
revenue and utilisation levels.
The Group maintained a satisfactory 
level of backlog during the year given 
the low oil price environment.
*  The backlog figure in 2014 includes backlog for the Large Class vessel contract award announced on 28 January 2015.
New Build Programme Delivery New build programme delivery KPIs measure how 
successful the Group has been in managing vessel 
construction projects in terms of cost control and 
delivery schedule.
Delivery of all three new vessels, the 
first of their kind, on schedule and 
within budget in 2015 demonstrates 
continued effective project delivery 
and cost control.
Employees Offshore staff retention shows percentage of senior 
officers (masters and chief engineers) who continued  
to be employees in the period. 
Average FTE employees means the average number 
of full time equivalent employees throughout the  
year which provides an indication of the Group’s 
service capacity and scale of operations.
The small increase in offshore staff 
retention is as a result of continued 
focus by the Group on retention 
policies for key personnel. 
Average FTE employees increased  
by 21% due mainly to the increase  
in construction staff headcount 
necessary for increased activities  
as part of the new build programme.
TRIR & LTIR TRIR is the total recordable Injury rate per 200,000 
man hours, which provides a measure of the  
frequency of recordable injuries.
LTIR is the lost time injury rate per 200,000 man  
hours which is a measure of the frequency of injuries 
requiring employee absence from work in the year  
for a period of one or more days.
In 2015 the reporting criteria for offshore incidents 
was amended to include incidents occurring during 
hours of rest in addition to hours of work, for 
personnel operating offshore. Accordingly offshore 
man hours are now calculated based on a 24 hour 
working period. The KPIs shown for 2013 and 2014 
have been restated.
The decrease in TRIR illustrates the 
Group’s commitment to delivering 
high standards of health and safety.
The increase in LTIR is a result of  
two injuries occurring which required 
employee absence from work in 2015. 
The Group continues to focus on 
achieving our target of zero lost  
time injuries.
Year New Vessels Delivered On Schedule Within Budget
2015 Pepper
Shamal
Scirocco
2014 Enterprise
2013 None – –
% – Offshore staff retention Bars – Average FTE employees
 = TRIR  = LTIR
US$ 400
US$ 200
US$ 600
0
US$ 800
2013 20142015
US$ 434m
US$ 739m*
US$ 580m
150
300
450
0
750
600
2013 20142015
394
573
692
74%
90%
91%
0.50
0
1.00
2013 2014 2015
0.23
0.25
0.18
0.05
0
0.08 20 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Risk 
Management
Process
Senior Management
The senior managment team implement 
the risk management process from 
risk identiﬁcation through 
to mitigation.
Board of Directors
The Board has overall responsibility 
for ensuring eﬀective management 
of risks.
Internal Audit
There are clear reporting lines from the 
internal audit function to the Audit 
and Risk Committee and the senior 
management team.
Audit and Risk Committee
Responsibilities include reviewing the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems 
as well as monitoring the eﬀectiveness of 
the Group’s internal audit function.
Evaluation
Mitigation
Identi ﬁcation
Analysis
RISK MANAGEMENT
The effective identification and management of business risks and 
opportunities across the Group are a key priority of the business and 
integral to the delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives. The Group 
has a robust risk management system in place to support the 
identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation and ongoing monitoring  
of risks as shown in the risk management framework below.
Business risks across the Group are 
addressed in a systematic and consistent 
way through the risk management 
framework, which has clear lines of reporting 
and communication to deal with risk 
management and internal control issues. 
The Group’s process for identifying and 
managing risks is embedded in its 
organisational structure, operations  
and management systems.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that risks are effectively managed. 
However, the Audit and Risk Committee has 
been delegated responsibility for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal control and procedures for the 
identification, assessment, management, 
mitigation and reporting of risk. 
The internal control process starts with 
identifying risks, compliance matters and 
other issues through regular reviews carried 
out by process owners and facilitated by 
individual departmental risk assessments 
where the process owners regularly assess 
the implications and consequences and 
determine the likelihood of occurrences.  
The risks associated with the delivery of  
the strategy, business plan, annual work 
programme as well as the associated 
mitigation measures, are maintained in a 
series of departmental risk registers which 
are consolidated and reviewed by the senior 
management team to formulate the Group 
risk management process. The outcomes of 
risk identification and control assessments 
are formally reported to the senior 
management team and escalated to the 
Audit and Risk Committee and Board, as 
appropriate. The Board regularly reviews  
all key risks facing the Group as part of the 
Group risk management process which 
ensures that the Board satisfies the UK 
Code requirement to perform a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing  
the Company, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Group’s internal audit function has  
been largely outsourced to a specialised 
team provided by a reputable third party.  
All internal audit activity conducted by the 
internal audit team is done under the 
direction and leadership of the Finance 
Director, who reports to the Chief Financial 
Officer, but the team also has an 
independent reporting line to the Chairman 
of the Audit and Risk Committee. In view  
of Internal Audit’s recommendations, 
management agrees and implements 
corrective action plans, which are tracked  
to completion by internal audit, with the 
results reported regularly to the Audit  
and Risk Committee and the Board. 21 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in the short to medium term are set out below, together with the principal mitigation 
measures. These risks are not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks that may arise in the ordinary course of business  
or otherwise.
Key:  Risk has increased since 2014  No change in risk since 2014  Risk has reduced since 2014
Risk Risk Profile
Assessment of 
change in Risk Mitigation, Monitoring and Assurance
Strategic The macroeconomic 
environment influences  
the demand for our services.  
A sustained period of low oil 
prices could affect the demand 
for the Group’s oil extraction 
support services. This could  
lead to lower utilisation or lower 
charter day rates causing profit 
margins to fall. 
Significant changes in the 
market-place as a result of the 
actions of our competitors or 
the entrance of new competitors 
may jeopardise our market 
share or adversely affect 
utilisation levels or charter  
day rate levels achieved.
Over-exposure to any one 
geographic market or loss of  
a major client or a reduction in 
activity of a major client could 
impact our performance.
Opex v Capex
The Group provides cost-effective services mainly in the Opex phase 
of oil companies’ budgets, supporting long-term oil production which 
tends to be much less cyclical than Capex phase work. 
Focus on low cost of production areas such as MENA 
A larger share of the Group’s client base and revenues are generated 
in the MENA region, where the cost of oil production is significantly 
lower than in other parts of the world. Our NOC clients in these 
regions tend to be less sensitive to varying oil prices than other 
types of oil companies. 
 
Backlog visibility
We focus on long-term and recurring client contracts such that 
operating margins can generally be forecast with reasonable 
accuracy, providing visibility of future earnings. Secured backlog  
at the end of 2015 was US$ 579.6 million.
Market and operational familiarity
We believe that the Group continues to have a competitive edge  
over most other market participants through our operational 
expertise and the quality of our offshore solutions. 
Construction and modification flexibility for clients
Our vessels are built to be as flexible as possible allowing us to 
compete for a wide share of the market helping us to maintain  
high utilisation and charter day rates. 
Commercial The reliance of the Group on  
a limited number of blue chip 
clients may expose us to  
losses in the event of client 
relationship disruptions.
The Group may not be able to 
win new contracts or retain 
existing contracts including 
clients not opting to exercise 
contractual option periods 
because of the actions of 
competitors. This could lead to 
lower vessel utilisation or lower 
charter day rates causing profit 
margins to fall.
Strong client relationships 
The Group has a clear record of established long term relationships  
in the MENA region, which helps provide an excellent understanding 
of our clients’ requirements and standards.
Flexibility and innovation 
We seek to continually improve our offering through innovation 
including new vessel designs and specification improvements by 
responding directly to client feedback.
Tender approach
We compete in tenders for all vessels nearing the end of their firm 
contracts, ensuring that, if a client chooses not to exercise their 
option, no other opportunities would be missed. 
Growth and expansion
The Group has plans to further expand the fleet, subject to market 
demand. Furthermore the Group has expansion of its geographical 
footprint as one of its strategic aims as it seeks to diversify into other 
markets. Also we are further expanding the range of well activities 
that our vessels can perform. 22 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Risk Risk Profile
Assessment of 
change in Risk Mitigation, Monitoring and Assurance
Health, Safety, 
Security, 
Environment 
and Quality
The Group may suffer 
commercial and reputational 
damage as a result of an 
environmental or safety incident 
involving our employees, visitors 
or contractors.
Our operations have an inherent 
safety risk due to our offshore 
operations. We have a 
fundamental obligation to 
protect our people and 
recognise the implications  
of poor safety procedures.
Safety awareness 
Safety and assurance continues to be a top priority and is 
underpinned by our HSSEQ management system and strong 
safety-focused culture. Management ensures appropriate safety 
practices and procedures, disaster recovery plans and the insurance 
coverage of all commercial contracts both prior to acceptance and 
during contract delivery. 
Training and compliance
Our employees undergo continuous training and sensitisation on 
operational best practice. 
Scheduled maintenance
The Group follows regular maintenance schedules on its vessels and 
the condition of the vessels is consistently monitored. 
Financial Macro and micro economic 
events, such as a low oil price, 
may impact our ability to raise 
finance, achieve forecast, 
effectively manage our  
working capital and service  
our financial obligations.
The Group utilises external 
funding in financing major 
projects, and inability to obtain 
the required funding may hamper 
the successful undertaking of 
capital-intensive projects.
Failure of the Group to service 
the debts and comply with  
debt covenants could result  
in negative repercussions for  
the Group.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Transparent KPIs are used for reporting to track progress. The KPIs 
are reviewed regularly to ensure Management has all the necessary 
information to make timely financial decisions.
Availability of funding
The Group completed a refinancing process in 2015, which has 
provided assurance on adequate funding for working capital and 
future capex projects. 
Policies and procedures
We adhere to Group-wide financial and accounting policies which 
underpin our approach to risk management. 
Management and Board reporting
The Management and the Board regularly monitor the Group’s  
debt obligations and funding requirements and seek to ensure  
that sufficient funds are always in place to meet the needs of the 
business as well as maintaining significant headroom over debt 
covenants thus minimising the risk of breach. 
Compliance  
and regulation
Non-compliance with anti-
bribery and corruption 
regulations could damage 
stakeholder relations and lead to 
reputational and financial loss.
Failure to appropriately identify 
and comply with laws and 
regulations and other regulatory 
statutes in new and existing 
markets could lead to  
regulatory investigations.
Code of conduct
The Group has a Code of Conduct which employees are required to 
comply with when conducting business on behalf of the Group; this 
includes anti-bribery and corruption policies.
Due diligence
Prior to venturing into new markets, the Group performs substantial 
due diligence work and obtains an understanding of the governing 
laws and regulations. Group legal and external counsel support are 
utilised as necessary.
Operational There is a risk that the Group’s 
assets may not be fit for 
purpose or may fail to operate  
in the manner intended by 
management. Failure to deliver 
the expected operational 
performance could result in 
reputational damage, litigation, 
reduced profit margins or loss  
of clients.
Changes in the political regimes, 
civil and political unrest or 
sanctions in the jurisdictions  
in which we operate could 
adversely affect our operations.
Vessel monitoring 
The Group constantly monitors the condition of the vessels and 
other equipment which undergo mandatory dry docking within the 
specified timeframes. The Group has policies and procedures in place 
such as the Planned Maintenance System to ensure that the vessels 
undergo regular preventative maintenance.
Emergency plans and insurance
For all our major assets and areas of operation, the Group maintains 
emergency preparedness plans. We regularly review the insurance 
coverage over the Group’s assets to ensure adequate cover is in place.
Constant review
The Group remains vigilant to potential changes and risks and  
may engage with governments and legal counsel to ensure a 
comprehensive view of our stakeholders is presented. The Group 
constantly monitors the ever-changing political landscape in the 
regions that are considered volatile or unpredictable. 23 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Risk Risk Profile
Assessment of 
change in Risk Mitigation, Monitoring and Assurance
Investments Delays in completion, or errors  
in assessing the impact of new 
strategic expansion projects 
could result in decreased 
margins and market share.
Board oversight
The Board has oversight of approving and monitoring strategic projects.
Project management 
Extensive project management controls and processes are adhered 
to throughout project life cycles.
People The Group’s success depends 
on our ability to attract and 
retain sufficiently qualified  
and experienced personnel, 
particularly at senior 
management levels. 
Failure to attract, develop and 
retain sufficient competent crew 
to support our clients’ needs 
could result in operational issues 
on-board vessels.
Succession planning
The Group maintains detailed management succession plans for key 
personnel which are monitored by the Group HR team. The current 
macroeconomic environment has resulted in a wider talent pool 
available for certain roles within the Group.
Learning and development
The Group is committed to providing bespoke training and 
development paths for key personnel and invests heavily in  
learning and development with a major focus on regular training  
for our safety critical, senior operational and management roles. 
Competitive remuneration packages
The Group has a competitive remuneration structure that aims to 
attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified personnel through 
performance-based reward practices.
Longer-term viability 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September  
2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three year period to December 2018. The Board believes that 
a viability assessment for a period of three years is appropriate taking into consideration the current low oil price environment and 
that this timeframe also aligns with the Group’s strategic planning horizon. The Board reviews annually and on a rolling basis the 
strategic plan for the business which the Group progressively implements. The Group’s business model has proven to be resilient 
over the long term in previous down turns in the macroeconomic environment.
The Group’s business model was stress tested against a range of reasonably possible unfavourable scenarios both individually and  
in unison to further validate the robustness of the Group’s business model and financial position (including debt facilities and loan 
repayment maturities). The assessment took into consideration both the potential impact that the Group’s principal risks detailed  
above on pages 21 to 23 occurring would have on the Group as well as evaluating the effect of a sustained period of low oil price on 
the business. The Group has a robust risk management framework in place to monitor and mitigate its exposure to these principal 
risks. The Board also considered the current operational and financial position of the Group in assessing its viability when stress 
testing the model. Sensitivity analysis has been used which included the potential impact on our business of a sustained period of 
low oil prices, primarily through reducing revenues and cash inflows by incorporating prolonged reductions in charter day rates and 
utilisation levels, against the background of the mitigating actions available to the business, such as the rephasing or reduction of 
future capital expenditure projects. 
This assessment has considered a range of potential impacts of these risks on the business model, future performance, solvency 
and liquidity over the review period. Based on the results of this analysis the Board has concluded that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period  
of the assessment.
Information contained within the Introduction on pages 1 to 5 and the Performance section on pages 26 to 35 of this document forms 
part of the Strategic Report by reference.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2016 24 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE
Operational Review 26
Financial Review 30
Corporate Social Responsibility 32
PERFORMANCE 25 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 26 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Operations
The Group has a fleet of 14 SESVs with  
the majority located in the Middle East  
and two in Europe. The SESVs have been 
primarily engaged in well services and 
accommodation support in 2015. GMS  
Sharqi was only recently completed at the 
end of Q1 2016 and we are actively seeking  
a first charter. 
Our fleet of self-propelled SESVs is not  
only the largest fleet in the world, it is also 
one of the youngest in the industry, with  
an average age of just seven years. This is 
based on 11 years for the Small Class SESV 
fleet and four years for the Large Class  
(the Mid-Size Class having only just been 
introduced in 2015/2016). Older less 
sophisticated vessels are not typically able 
to offer the cost-effective deployment and 
substantial operational efficiencies that we 
provide to our clients. 
We also have two AHTS vessels and an 
accommodation barge, which have been 
mostly occupied in platform supply activities 
and offshore construction projects in the 
Middle East. The financial performance  
of these three non-core vessels is more 
directly affected by the low oil price due  
to the nature of their operations than our  
SESV fleet.
SESVs’ Charter Rates, Utilisation  
and Operating Costs
The fleet performed very well during the 
year, with continued high utilisation levels  
for the SESVs of 98% in 2015. Charter rates, 
however, sustained some downward 
pressure towards the end of the year 
primarily as a reflection of the fall in oil price. 
The movement in the charter rates, shown 
in the adjacent table, for the Large Class 
vessels has been influenced by foreign 
currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Small Class
2015 2014
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 40 38
Utilisation 96% 99%
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 10 11
Mid-Size Class
2015 2014
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 54 –
Utilisation 100% –
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 17 –
Large Class
2015 2014
Average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (US$’000s) 82 100
Utilisation 100% 88%
Average daily vessel operating costs (US$’000s) 21 21
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Oil and Gas opex-led Activities
Oil and Gas capex-led Activities
Renewable Energy
80%
18%
2%
2015 revenue by type of work
GMS’ business is heavily weighted towards 
clients’ opex-based activities as shown below.
* Please refer to the Glossary. 
As already indicated in our Interim Results, 
we had a significant number of special 
projects in the first half of the year,  
the majority of which were bespoke 
modifications or mobilisations requested  
by our clients for new charters and which 
reduced the operational availability of the 
vessels involved. Approximately 7.0% of  
the total number of days in 2015 were used 
on these special projects and while this 
impacted earnings, this was offset with  
the award of some long-term contracts  
that provide good revenue visibility. We  
have significantly fewer projects planned  
in 2016 and would expect this to be reflected 
in our available days* next year.
The table below provides a summary of our 
key performance metrics.
Crewing
The fleet is manned with 488 crew members 
(as at 31 December 2015). This figure 
comprises 70 senior officers, 117 officers  
and 301 ratings, all of whom are marine-
qualified. We also have 125 subcontracted 
catering staff across the fleet. The average 
number of crew on board our SESVs at  
any time is between 15 and 21 persons 
depending on contractual work scope 
requirements, of which fewer than five  
are senior officers. 
With a relatively small pool of SESV-qualified 
senior officers worldwide, it is important we 
continue to focus our efforts on ensuring we 
have sufficient appropriately-skilled crew to 
command our vessels now and in the future. 
The simulator we developed in 2014, which 
provides training in the manoeuvring and 
jacking of our vessels, has been especially 
helpful in this regard, having been 
extensively used in 2015 as part of our 
command course. Our Masters in Training 
(MiT) Programme, an integral part of the 
course, enables us to fast-track our senior 
officers to command positions; the simulator 
is also used to enhance the development of 
our existing Masters. Further information on 
our MiT Programme and simulator may be 
seen in the case study on the next page.  27 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The retention of our senior officers is also 
crucial to the successful continuity of our 
operations. Our retention rate for offshore 
crew senior officers has been 91% during  
the period, up 1% compared to last year.  
This success reflects a number of initiatives 
we have implemented to encourage our 
personnel to continue working with us, 
including the incorporation of our senior 
crew into our Long Term Incentive Scheme. 
2015 saw the consolidation and 
implementation of a variety of activities  
to enhance the training and operational 
expertise of our personnel. These include 
the development of our SESV command 
course for Masters and Masters in Training 
as discussed earlier in this review, enhanced 
computer-based training to include our Life 
Saving Rules (more information on these can 
be found on page 32), and preparation for 
the in-house delivery of courses in jacking.
The year has been characterised by a 
significant number of operational projects. 
These included the commissioning and 
mobilisation of our new build vessels Pepper, 
GMS Shamal and GMS Scirocco onto their 
first contracts, and the deployment of a 
Large Class vessel onto a new contract.  
The special projects delivered, which often 
involved us modifying some of our vessels to 
meet specific contract requirements, included 
increasing the accommodation capability 
from 150 to 370 personnel on a Large Class 
vessel, complete engine, generator and 
switchboard replacements on a Small Class 
vessel, and the refurbishment and re-
mobilisation of some vessels in each of our 
three classes in order to improve utilisation. 
As we have increased our fleet and 
operations across our global business, the 
number of man hours worked in 2015 rose  
to 7.7 million (2014: 4.8 million). Unfortunately, 
two lost time injuries (LTIs) were sustained 
during the period, our first since 2013. In 
2015 the Group modified the reporting 
criteria used for recording offshore 
incidents. Previously offshore working hours 
were calculated based on a 12-hour working 
day, therefore not including any incidents 
that occurred during hours of rest. As our 
personnel are living on our vessels 
permanently, whilst offshore, we have 
decided to include off duty incidents in our 
reporting criteria. This means that offshore 
man hours are now calculated based on a 
24-hour working period. The total recordable 
injury rate (TRIR)* for 2015 was 0.18 (2014: 
0.25). This change highlights our ongoing 
commitment to provide all personnel with  
a quality and safe working environment at  
all times whilst under our duty of care; we 
will maintain our focus on HSE, with zero 
incidents continuing to be the target. 
Case study
SUCCESSFUL SIMULATOR  
TRAINING
Last year we reported on our design 
and development of the world’s first 
onshore SESV simulator, with a bespoke 
training programme that incorporates 
simulations for the manoeuvring and 
jacking of self-elevating, self-propelled 
vessels in a variety of operational 
scenarios as they move from one 
platform to the next. The simulator was 
fully operational in 2015, with training 
conducted in it forming the practical 
aspect of our Masters in Training (MiT) 
Programme and part of our Competence 
Assurance requirement. 
We are pleased to report that the 
simulator has proved very successful, 
with 14 Masters in Training using it 
during 2015, nine of whom have 
subsequently been promoted to  
Master (and accepted by our clients, 
who recognise and accept the simulator 
training as part of Masters’ formal 
accreditation). Some 16 existing 
Masters have also received training  
in the simulator during the year as  
part of their continual development. 
The simulator training has reduced  
the time it takes for our Masters to  
be accepted by our clients. Historically, 
in order to achieve client approval a MiT 
required four to eight vessel moves, 
which required a time frame of six to 
ten months; with the comprehensive 
training a MiT receives in the simulator, 
this has been reduced to two to three 
moves over the course of just one to 
two months. The MiT programme also 
provides significant cost savings in 
operations and is self-funded.
In-House Build, Maintenance  
and Modification 
Our well-established in-house build model 
involves the design, build, maintenance and 
modification of our vessels and this holistic 
approach continues to benefit our business 
as we maintain our competitive advantage. 
Notably, we are able to build our vessels  
up to 30% cheaper than our peers who  
rely on external shipyards, and we achieve 
considerable cost-savings by carrying out 
repairs, modifications and mobilisations at 
our own shipyard in the Middle East. 
In Q4 2015 we were pleased to lease from 
Abu Dhabi Ports a new yard facility, which  
is situated at Zayed Port in Abu Dhabi.  
The strategic location of the new yard  
is operationally more efficient than our 
existing yard in Mussafah, Abu Dhabi, with 
access to the sea now requiring just one 
day’s passage instead of up to six days 
required from Mussafah due to tidal 
conditions in the channel. The facility  
is also larger and is supporting the 
maintenance of our increased fleet and  
our new build construction. In addition,  
we will now be able to carry out more  
of our own fabrication work in-house,  
for example future vessel enhancement 
projects. Our original yard next to our head 
office in Abu Dhabi will continue to be used 
for supplementary support purposes.
2015 was an exceptionally busy year,  
with three new SESVs delivered on time  
and within budget in the first nine months. 
GMS Sharqi was then delivered in Q1 2016. 
GMS Evolution will complete the current new 
build programme, with delivery scheduled 
for Q4 2016.
We continually seek to improve our vessel 
design and the services we offer to our 
clients. It is also an essential part of our 
future growth strategy to expand our  
range of services so that we can enter  
new markets. For example, a number of  
new safety features have been built into our 
Mid-Size Class SESVs (please see the case 
study page on 29). In addition, GMS Shamal 
will be fitted with a small cantilever that will 
allow it to support well servicing work that 
we have not previously been able to offer.
*  Please refer to the Glossary.  28 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Markets 
Europe
2015 has seen the successful startup of  
a long-term contract in the Dutch sector  
of the North Sea for one of our Large  
Class SESVs. The second Large Class SESV 
operating in the region has transitioned 
from a maintenance to decommissioning 
support role, remaining with the same client. 
We are actively bidding for new work in the 
region, in both the renewables and the oil 
and gas sectors. The introduction of the 
Mid-Size Class vessels in 2015 has provided 
us with greater flexibility on specification 
and pricing when bidding for shallow water 
contracts. In the second half of 2015 there 
has been little new work starting up for 
either short or long-term contracts in either 
renewables or oil and gas. Whilst GMS 
vessels in the region have remained fully 
utilised, a number of competitor vessels 
remained idle. As a result, we are likely to see 
strong competition for new opportunities in 
this region while oil prices remain low.
Middle East
We continue to be the leading SESV operator 
in the Middle East, where a high level of 
demand has characterised the market in 
2015. Low production costs and aggressive 
production targets have meant that both 
opex and capex-related activities have 
continued throughout the period. However, 
the sustained low oil price will mean that 
operators in the region will continue to focus 
on cost reductions with inevitable pressure 
on day rates in 2016. Although four new 
quasi competitor vessels entered the 
regional market in 2015 two of these vessels 
are not self-propelled and the remaining two 
vessels’ jacking systems are unsuited to the 
frequent jacking requirements of well 
services) we believe these vessels are really 
only suited to construction support projects 
rather than well servicing where we 
predominantly operate. As a result, we 
expect opex-related activities that provide 
much of the demand for our fleet to remain 
firm relative to the capex/construction 
market in 2016. 
Rest of World
There have been limited opportunities 
outside of our core markets in 2015, with this 
a reflection of the lower oil price environment 
as clients defer work. However, we would still 
look to West Africa and South East Asia as 
good potential markets in the future. 
Case study
EXPANDING WELL INTERVENTION 
SERVICES – CANTILEVER 
We have continued to build up our 
expertise in well intervention services 
during 2015. In line with our strategy of 
continuing to enhance the capability and 
therefore employability of our assets, we 
have developed cantilever systems for 
Mid-Size Class and Large Class SESVs. 
The cantilever systems allow GMS to 
deliver existing well intervention services 
more efficiently and quickly and to 
provide a greater range of services from 
our SESV units. For example, a pre-
commissioned well intervention package 
can be positioned and supported over  
the well centre by the cantilever and work 
can commence immediately. This avoids 
transferring heavy equipment loads on to 
the wellhead structure, overcoming any 
structural integrity limitations on the 
client’s assets. The delivery of our first 
large cantilever heavy well intervention 
system at the end of 2016, which will be 
installed on GMS Evolution, will enable 
GMS to compete for workover activity 
previously carried out from jackup drilling 
units. Unlike drilling rigs, the GMS SESV 
fleet is entirely self-propelled and does not 
require tugs or similar vessels for moves 
between locations in the field; this makes 
them significantly more cost-effective and 
time-efficient than conventional offshore 
support vessels without self-propulsion, 
such as drilling rigs. We strongly believe 
that this will be an attractive proposition 
for our clients both in the current market 
and when oil prices increase. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED 29 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
E1
E2
E3
E4
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Large Class Vessels
Mid-Size Class Vessels
Small Class Vessels
K1
K2
K3
K4
K5
K6
K7
K8
S1
S2
S3
Firm Options Under Construction
SESVs contract duration near-term (1 to 2 years) Longer-term (3 to 5 years)
Case study
BUILDING IN SAFETY –  
GMS SCIROCCO
As both the builder and operator of  
our fleet, we are in the ideal position  
to incorporate operational experience  
at the design stage of our vessels so  
as to develop enhanced strategies for 
managing the risks associated with  
major accident hazards. To facilitate this 
process, our operations, technical and 
HSE departments work closely together 
from the early stages of vessel 
construction all the way through  
to delivery.
A number of design improvements, 
inspired by the North Sea Safety Case 
criteria our vessels in Europe already 
comply with, have been included in our 
latest generation of SESVs, the Mid-Size 
Class vessels, which typically operate  
in the MENA region. These include the 
installation of automated helideck 
firefighting systems so that personnel  
are not required to be in the immediate 
vicinity, and the strategic relocation of  
the cranes to improve the lifting of loads.
We launched our Mid-Size Class SESV  
GMS Scirocco in September 2015. More 
than 500,000 man hours were spent on 
the successful delivery of the vessel and 
there were no Lost Time Injuries. This is  
all the more remarkable considering the 
hundreds of lifting operations, ranging 
from routine to complex heavy lifts,  
and temperatures of up to 50 degrees 
centigrade. It was only possible through 
the excellent collaboration and teamwork 
of the entire project team and through the 
effective engagement of the numerous 
subcontracted personnel working on site.
E1
E2
E3
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Large Vessels
Mid-Size Vessel
Small Vessels
K1
K2
K3
K4
K5
K6
K7
K8
S1
Firm periods Option periods Vessels under construction
SESVs order book of contracts as at 1 March 2016
1
1. The backlog chart has been adjusted to reflect a known reduction in contract period agreed after this date for one of our Small Class vessels. 30 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Introduction
The Group delivered a good set of results 
during 2015 with revenue increasing by 12% 
to US$ 219.7 million (2014: US$ 196.6 million). 
The reported results were impacted by 
foreign currency exchange rates fluctuations; 
on a constant currency* basis there was 
revenue growth of 15% during the year. 
Our operations during 2015 have delivered 
increased EBITDA of US$ 138.5 million (2014: 
US$ 124.8 million after adding back non-
operational IPO costs). On a constant 
currency* basis, EBITDA increased by 16%. 
Adjusted net profit after taxation for 2015 
increased by 4% to US$ 84.9 million (2014: 
US$ 81.3 million), on a constant currency* 
basis an increase of 11%. Adjusted diluted 
EPS was broadly flat at 24.05 cents (2014: 
23.71 cents), on a constant currency* basis 
growth was 7%. 
The Group will continue to focus on cost 
management and achieving operational 
efficiencies in 2016.
GMS continues to have a sound financial 
position with a healthy balance sheet and 
resilient operating cash flows. Total capital 
expenditure for 2015 of US$ 205.4 million 
(2014: US$ 140.7 million) was primarily spent 
on construction of new vessels (US$ 127.6 
million) together with the acquisition of a 
new Small Class vessel (US$ 53.0 million) that 
was accounted for as a finance lease. The 
Group refinanced its bank borrowings during 
the year and at 31 December 2015 there 
were undrawn committed bank facilities of 
US$ 225.0 million (2014: US$ 130.0 million). 
The net debt level (being borrowings  
and finance lease obligations less cash) 
increased to US$ 398.9 million at the year 
end (2014: US$ 273.6 million) mainly as a 
result of the continued investment of 
funding as part of the new build programme. 
The Group’s net leverage ratio was 2.9 times 
(2014: 2.2 times) EBITDA. 
The following sections discuss the Group’s 
adjusted results as the Directors consider 
that they provide a useful indicator of 
performance. The adjusting items (non-
operational costs) are discussed below in 
this review and a reconciliation between the 
adjusted and statutory results is contained 
in note 6.
Revenue and segmental profit 
Revenue increased by 12% to US$ 219.7 
million in 2015 (2014: US$ 196.6 million) 
reflecting the increase in the number of 
vessels in the SESV fleet together with  
high utilisation of 98% (2014: 97%) and 
maintenance of overall healthy charter day 
rates during the year. Revenue growth on  
a constant currency* basis was 15% during 
the year. 
During the year 72% of total Group revenue 
was derived from customers located in  
the MENA region (2014: 64%) while the 
remaining 28% of revenue was earned from 
customers located in Northern Europe  
(2014: 36%). 
The Small Class vessel segment made the 
largest contribution to Group revenue with 
US$ 114.5 million (2014: US$ 104.4 million). 
Revenue contribution from Large Class 
vessels was US$ 86.4 million (2014: US$ 79.4 
million), US$ 14.5 million for Mid-size Class 
vessels (2014: US$ nil) and US$ 4.3 million 
(2014: US$ 12.8 million) for Other vessels. 
The segment profit, being gross profit 
excluding depreciation, was US$ 82.7 million 
(2014: US$ 75.6 million) for Small Class 
vessels, US$ 64.6 million (2014: US$ 60.5 
million) for Large Class vessels, US$ 10.1 
million for Mid-size Class vessels (2014: US$ 
nil), and US$ 0.9 million (2014: US$ 7.6 million) 
for Other vessels.
The backlog as at 1 March 2016 was  
US$ 443.9 million comprising firm and option 
periods on existing charters. The backlog 
has been adjusted to reflect a known 
reduction in contract period agreed after 
this date for one of our Small Class vessels. 
When negotiating terms with customers  
the Group maintains a balance between 
profitability and revenue visibility through 
contracted backlog.
Cost of sales and general and 
administrative expenses
The Group has a relatively predictable 
operating cost base, which is kept under 
constant review to ensure tight control is 
US$ million 2015 2014
Revenue 219.7 196.6
Gross profit 132.2 126.5
EBITDA
1
 (2014 adjusted) 138.5 124.8
Net profit 75.0 75.6
Adjusted net profit
2
84.9 81.3
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (US cents)
2
24.05 23.71
Proposed final dividend per share (pence) 1.20 1.06
1. EBITDA represents operating profit after adding back depreciation, amortisation (and in 2014 non-operational  
IPO costs).
2. After adding back non-operational refinancing costs in 2015 and non-operational IPO costs in 2014. 
maintained as the business grows. Cost  
of sales increased by 25% to US$ 87.5 million 
(2014: US$ 70.1 million) primarily reflecting 
the addition of the three new vessels to the 
fleet during the year. Cost of sales, excluding 
depreciation and amortisation, expressed as 
a percentage of revenue, remained relatively 
constant at 28% (2014: 27%). We are  
very conscious of managing our costs 
appropriately in the current environment. 
However, whilst fleet utilisation remains  
high there is limited scope for material cost 
reductions as certain operating costs for 
vessels tend to remain relatively fixed.  
If utilisation levels were to reduce 
significantly, there would be more flexibility 
to make further material cost savings. 
General and administrative expenses were 
US$ 20.9 million in 2015 (2014: US$ 19.7 
million – excluding non-operational IPO  
costs of US$ 5.7 million) reflecting the 
expanded workforce and operations to 
effectively meet the increased requirements 
of our growing business. As a percentage  
of revenue, general and administrative 
expenses excluding non-recurring costs  
was flat at 10% (2014: 10%). 
The Group will continue to focus on cost 
management and achieving operational 
efficiencies in 2016. 
EBITDA
EBITDA for the year increased to US$ 138.5 
million (2014: Adjusted for IPO costs US$ 
124.8 million). The Group’s EBITDA margin  
in 2015 was good overall at 63% (2014: 64%). 
On a constant currency* basis, adjusted 
EBITDA increased by 16%. The Group’s 
constant currency* EBITDA margin was  
flat year-on-year.
Finance costs 
Net finance costs in 2015 were higher at  
US$ 33.5 million (2014: US$ 20.5 million), 
primarily occurring as a result of the 
expensing of unamortised loan arrangement 
fees of US$ 9.9 million that were fully written 
off at the time of the Group refinancing 
which was completed at the end of 2015. 
After excluding these legacy items, net 
finance costs increased by US$ 3.1 million 
reflecting the additional loan drawdowns in 
2015 to fund the new build programme. 
During the year US$ 5.8 million (2014:  
US$ 3.4 million) of finance costs were 
capitalised as part of the new build 
programme as directly attributable costs.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was US$ 2.1 
million (2014: US$ 4.7 million), representing 
3% of profit for the year before taxation 
(2014: 6%). The decrease in the effective tax 
rate arises mainly from a greater weighting 
of profits being generated in lower or zero 
tax jurisdictions.
* Please refer to the Glossary. 31 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
* Please refer to the Glossary.
Adjusted net profit and  
earnings per share
The Group recorded an increase in adjusted 
net profit of 4% in 2015 to US$ 84.9 million 
(2014: US$ 81.3 million), an increase of 11% on 
a constant currency* basis. The fully diluted 
adjusted earnings per share (DEPS) for the 
year was broadly flat at 24.05 cents (2014: 
23.71 cents), on a constant currency* basis 
growth was 7%. Adjusted DEPS is calculated 
based on adjusted profit after tax and a 
reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory profit, is provided in note 6. 
Dividends 
The Group paid an interim dividend of 0.41 
pence per ordinary share on 28 September 
2015 to shareholders on the register at 
4 September 2015.
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) per share to be  
paid in cash for the year ended 31 December 
2015. Subject to shareholder approval, this 
will be paid on 16 May 2016 to all ordinary 
shareholders who were on the register of 
members at close of business on 15 April 
2016. This brings the total 2015 dividend  
to US$ 8.5 million which represents 10%  
of adjusted net profit for the year.
Capital expenditure 
The Group’s capital expenditure during  
the year ended 31 December 2015 was  
US$ 205.4 million (2014: US$ 140.7 million). 
The main area of investment was additions 
to assets under the course of construction 
(Capital work in progress) of US$ 139.2 
million (2014: US$ 136.6 million) which 
includes new build expenditure of US$ 127.6 
million. Additions to vessels amounted to 
US$ 64.6 million (2014: US$ 1.7 million) which 
includes the acquisition of a new Small Class 
vessel for US$ 53.0 million that was treated 
as a finance lease. 
A record level of special projects were 
undertaken during H1 2015. These special 
projects included vessel modifications and 
upgrades, and contract mobilisations. Whilst 
we benefit from longer term contracts being 
secured, the vessels are out of service which 
reduces the number of days available for 
hire. Approximately US$ 24.7 million was 
expended on special projects on vessels 
during the year. 
Cash flow and liquidity 
The Group’s net cash flow from operating 
activities continued to be healthy in the year, 
reflected in a net inflow of US$ 125.0 million 
(2014: net inflow of US$ 120.3 million). The  
net cash outflow from investing activities for 
2015 was US$ 189.8 million (2014: US$ 139.6 
million). The increase in outflow was mainly 
due to investment on capital expenditure as 
we continued to deliver on our new build 
programme. The Group’s net cash flow 
relating to financing activities during  
the year was an inflow of US$ 66.1 million 
(2014: US$ 31.9 million). 
The net debt position as at 31 December 
2015 was US$ 398.9 million, compared to 
US$ 273.6 million as at 31 December 2014. 
The year end outstanding debt was  
US$ 459.7 million (2014: US$ 333.1 million) 
comprising bank borrowings of US$ 365.1 
million (2014: US$ 249.2 million) and finance 
lease obligations of US$ 94.6 million (2014: 
US$ 84.0 million). Undrawn committed bank 
facilities were US$ 225.0 million at year end 
(2014: US$ 130.0 million).
 
In December 2015, the Group refinanced its 
bank debt facilities, delivering improvements 
to some of the key terms of the loan, such 
as available facility, borrowing margins, and 
tenure. The Group’s net leverage ratio, being 
the ratio of net debt (including finance lease 
obligations) to EBITDA, was 2.9 times at year 
end (2014: 2.2 times) against a maximum net 
leverage ratio permitted under the bank 
facility agreement of 4.0 times EBITDA. The 
Group remained in full compliance with all its 
debt covenants, with significant headroom, 
during the year and expects to remain so.
Capital expenditure for 2016 is forecast to  
be approximately US$ 150.0 million, which 
comprises US$ 51.0 million for the acquisition 
of a leased Small Class vessel in Q1 2016  
and new build and modification capital 
expenditure of approximately US$ 100.0 
million. The net debt level is expected to 
peak in 2016 at approximately US$ 435.0 
million before reducing to around US$ 425.0 
million by year end. 
Balance sheet
The Group has a healthy and well financed 
balance sheet. A review of the major 
components of the balance sheet follows. 
Total current assets at 31 December 2015 
were US$ 120.7 million (2014: US$ 109.5 
million). This movement is mainly 
attributable to an increase in trade and 
other receivables to US$ 59.9 million (2014: 
US$ 49.9 million) reflecting an increase in 
billings at year end in line with the expansion 
in the size of our fleet. The credit quality of 
the outstanding receivables is considered  
to be strong as the Group’s customers are 
mainly NOCs and IOCs. Cash and cash 
equivalents at year end increased to US$ 
60.8 million (2014: US$ 59.5 million).
Total current liabilities at 31 December  
2015 were US$ 110.0 million (2014: US$ 99.8 
million), the principal movement being the 
increase in the current portion of obligations 
under finance leases to US$ 55.0 million 
(2014: US$ 41.5 million) mainly as a result of 
the Group exercising a purchase option to 
acquire a leased Small Class vessel that was 
completed in Q1 2016. There was an increase 
in trade and other payables to US$ 33.9 
million (2014: US$ 30.1 million). 
The combined effect of the above items  
was an increase in the Group’s working 
capital and cash balance to US$ 10.7 million 
at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$ 9.7 million). 
Total non-current assets at 31 December 
2015 were US$ 803.4 million (2014: US$  
620.2 million). This increase is primarily 
attributable to the US$ 181.7 million increase 
in the net book value of property, plant and 
equipment, mainly from the ongoing new 
build programme to expand the fleet.  
Total non-current liabilities at 31 December 
2015 were US$ 390.2 million (2014: US$ 270.7 
million). This increase reflects the refinancing 
of the Group’s bank borrowings resulting in 
an increase in the non-current portion of 
borrowings to US$ 347.3 million (2014: US$ 
225.7 million).
Shareholders’ equity increased from US$ 
358.6 million at 31 December 2014 to US$ 
423.3 million at 31 December 2015. The 
movement is mainly attributed to profit 
earned during the year which was partly 
offset by the dividend paid of US$ 7.8 million.
Adjusting items 
The Group presents adjusted results, in 
addition to the statutory results, as the 
Directors consider that they provide a  
useful indication of underlying performance. 
The items that are excluded from the 
adjusted results are non-operational items. 
In 2015 these comprised the expensing of 
unamortised loan arrangement fees of US$ 
9.9 million that were written off at the time  
of the Group refinancing. A reconciliation 
between the adjusted and statutory results 
is provided in note 6. 
Outlook 
The Group is well-placed to manage the 
current challenges within the industry as  
it has a healthy balance sheet, resilient 
operating cash flows and is well funded.  
We will maintain our focus on what we can 
manage, including customer relations, 
preserving a financially sound balance sheet, 
controlling our cost base and capitalising on 
the youngest and most cost efficient fleet  
in our sector. 
It remains our intention to ensure the 
business has a capital structure that  
allows it to continue to invest in the  
fleet as appropriate and deliver strong 
shareholder returns in the future.
John Brown
Chief Financial Officer 
21 March 2016 32 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
We incorporate our core values of Responsibility, Excellence and 
Relationships into all aspects of our business. We are committed to 
ensuring the health and safety of our employees, subcontractors,  
clients and partners and to upholding high ethical standards.
Ethical Practice
Our Code of Conduct sets out the basic rules 
of the Group and its purpose is to ensure we 
work safely, ethically, efficiently and within 
the laws of the countries in which we 
operate. All our staff receive Code of 
Conduct training as part of their induction. 
Our reputation and our success is 
dependent on our staff taking responsibility 
for putting the Code of Conduct into practice 
and maintaining a high ethical standard in 
our work and in our dealings with our clients, 
host and foreign governments, joint venture 
partners and associates, contractors, 
employees, consultants, agents, and 
everyone with whom we have business 
dealings throughout the world. Our Code 
includes our standards and practices related 
to anti-bribery and corruption policies and 
anti-money laundering and competition 
laws, provides details on how to raise 
concerns and has information on our 
whistleblowing policy. 
Compliance
GMS operates responsibly within a 
framework of formal legal and regulatory 
disclosure requirements. Our corporate 
governance structure is designed to ensure 
we are well-positioned to conduct our 
business appropriately as we seek to deliver 
the best value for our shareholders. We are 
committed to the clear and comprehensive 
communication of our financial and 
non-financial performance to our 
stakeholders via regulatory reporting and 
through our website. During the period,  
we have strengthened our integrated 
management systems (IMS) to enable  
our continual improvement as we deliver 
services and products that comply with ISO 
and related certifications across the Group. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Case study
SAFETY FOR OUR ON-SITE AND OFFSHORE 
SUBCONTRACTED PERSONNEL 
Subcontractors form the majority of our 
new build programme workforce. During 
heavy construction phases there can be 
in excess of 500 subcontracted personnel 
working on-site and it is mandatory for  
all of these to complete the GMS HSSEQ 
Induction. Offshore personnel undertake  
an online induction designed to familiarise 
them with the Group’s policies, which also 
includes our 12 Life Saving Rules (LSRs). 
The LSRs, which supplement and support 
the existing company management 
systems, programmes and policies, were 
developed as a result of our risk-based 
approach to hazard identification and 
ensure all personnel, regardless of their 
company affiliation, are aware of these 
risks and GMS’ expectations. 
We include all our on-site subcontracted 
personnel in our HSE performance 
monitoring so that our standards are 
consistent across the entire workforce. 
Our Welfare Committee also helps to 
protect the interests of our on-site 
subcontracted personnel whose issues 
can be brought to the attention of our 
management and addressed 
appropriately. 33 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Client Relationships
We value the relationships we have with  
our clients, which are built on trust and a 
proven track record of delivering successful 
operations. Many of these relationships  
are with long-term clients, in the case of 
ADNOC subsidiaries spanning more than  
40 years. We continually seek to improve  
our operational procedures across our 
entire fleet and during the period were 
pleased to receive an award from a client  
for our exceptional HSE performance on one 
of our vessels that has achieved in excess  
of 15 years’ zero lost time injuries. Through 
close collaboration with our clients, we are 
able to offer considerable flexibility whereby  
we can tailor our vessels to suit their  
evolving needs. 
Engagement with our Employees 
and Subcontractors
We are committed to providing our 
employees and on-site subcontractors  
with a safe working environment. We ensure 
our subcontracted personnel working at our 
premises or in our vessels offshore are 
treated with the same respect afforded to 
our own staff and that they comply with the 
Group’s standards and working practices. 
We encourage an honest and open dialogue 
with our workforce and host a variety of 
formal and informal communications 
initiatives. In addition, our offshore 
performance coaches’ act as a sounding 
board for issues close to the crews’ hearts, 
with feedback passed to the GMS senior 
management team for appropriate action. 
Our Welfare Committee provides the 
opportunity for our yard staff to discuss  
any issues they may have and helps us to 
monitor their health and wellbeing. In 2015, 
we also initiated a healthy lifestyle campaign 
and hosted visiting doctors who advised 
staff on fitness and nutrition and provided 
on-site vaccination programmes. We are 
committed to ensuring the personal and 
professional development of our staff, so 
they can reach their full potential within 
GMS. More information on how we develop 
our people can be found in our Business 
Model on page 13.
  34 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Sweden
Turkey UAE Ukraine Zimbabwe United 
Kingdom
Venezuela United States
of America
Syria Tanzania Tunisia
Azerbaijan Bangladesh Belgium Bulgaria Cameroon Canada Chile China Croatia Denmark Australia
Saudi 
Arabia
South 
Africa
South 
Korea
Spain Sri Lanka Serbia Poland Romania Russia Philippines
Egypt Estonia France India Ghana Germany Indonesia Kenya Latvia Ireland Jordan
Nepal Netherlands Oman Pakistan Palestine Lebanon Lithuania Mexico Malaysia New 
Zealand
Panama
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
28
3
2
1 3
Land-based management*
Total of 37** (34 male, 3 female)
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
18
95
18
5 3
Land-based staff*
Total of 139 (92 male, 47 female)
Africa
Asia
MENA
Other 
(America, 
Australia, 
New Zealand, 
etc.)
Europe 
297
134
35
11
11
Offshore employees*
Total of 488 (all male)
*  For cultural and legal reasons the extent to which we can increase the number of female personnel is often limited. For example, we cannot employ women offshore in the Middle East.
** Of the 37 land-based management, 8 are members of the senior management team (7 male, 1 female).
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
We employ personnel from more than 50 countries and are very proud of our diversity, which ensures we look  
at ourselves, and the way we work, from many different viewpoints. Our people come from the countries shown below.
Community Involvement
GMS understands how important it is to 
contribute to the local communities where 
we work and has a number of ongoing 
initiatives. We encourage a healthy living 
lifestyle, both within the Group and the wider 
community, through our support of various 
sports such as GMS’ own cricket and football 
teams, local cycling, football and rugby, and 
through our regular support of charity 
events. During the period we were also 
pleased to work closely with the Emirates 
Red Crescent as a preferred charity of 
choice for GMS. Further information can be 
found in the case study on the next page. 
Supporting Cycling in the UAE
GMS has been supporting cycling in the UAE 
for seven years through sponsorship and the 
provision of a safety vehicle to a cycling club 
in Abu Dhabi. The Group has significantly 
raised awareness of the health benefits of 
cycling and in 2015 sponsored the launch of 
Abu Dhabi’s first formalised cycling league; 
co-sponsors in the inaugural series of six 
races included the Abu Dhabi Sports Council. 
A total of 80 cyclists from 25 different 
countries took part in the race event,  
with half of the participants being Emiratis.  
The initiative very much supports the 
government’s work to raise awareness  
of diabetes and obesity in the region, 
encouraging a healthier lifestyle for everyone.
Our Values
Our core values of Responsibility, Excellence 
and Relationships define who we are, what 
we believe in and strive for and how we act 
and behave. Further information on our core 
values can be found on our website.
The charts below provide details on the diversity of our personnel.  35 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015
Tonnes of CO
2
e
2015 2014
Emissions from:
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 62,727 39,515
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 1,447 1,038
Total (in tonnes CO
2
e) 64,174 40,553
US$’000 US$’000
Total Revenue in the reporting period 219,713 196,554
Company’s chosen intensity measurement:
Emissions reported above normalised to the ratio of tonnes of CO
2
e per US$ 1,000 of Group revenue 0.3 0.2
Case study
SUPPORTING THE EMIRATES RED CRESCENT 
GMS celebrates Ramadan each year, 
hosting an Iftar meal for all staff and their 
families. In 2015, GMS extended this to the 
local community in the industrial area 
surrounding its head office and yard in 
Abu Dhabi. In collaboration with Emirates 
Red Crescent, GMS set up a large tent  
and provided around 1,000 Iftar meals 
during Ramadan. 
The Emirates Red Crescent is a volunteer 
humanitarian organisation that supports 
official authorities in times of peace and 
war. It was internationally attested as a 
member in the international Federation of 
the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies 
in 1986. 
In December, GMS hosted an event  
at it its offices in Abu Dhabi for 20 
underprivileged children aged six to 13. 
The day provided the children with an 
insight into a work environment and 
included a special tour of a GMS vessel 
under construction. 
Environmental Responsibility
We have maintained our strong focus on 
reducing the environmental impact of our 
operations. To support this we introduced  
a number of key initiatives developed 
through our environmental monitoring 
programme targeting waste reduction  
and resource consumption. We also had 
another successful year whereby no 
pollution incidents occured. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement
This section has been prepared in 
accordance with our regulatory obligation 
to report greenhouse gas emissions 
pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013.
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required. These sources fall within 
our consolidated financial statements. We 
do not have responsibility for any emission 
sources in entities that are not included in 
our consolidated financial statements.
The intensity ratio of tonnes CO
2
e per  
US$ 1000 of Group revenue earned during 
the reporting period has been chosen 
because, as a service company, the 
amount of revenue earned best reflects 
our operational output and therefore  
the contribution to our GHG emissions.
In calculating our GHG emissions, we  
have used the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition), the Climate Registry  
2014, the IEA CO
2
 Emissions from Fuel 
combustion 2015 and emission factors 
from the UK Government Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
The table below shows our GHG emissions 
for the period.
The consumption of fuel during the 
operation of our vessels is the largest 
contributor to our GHG emissions. 
Although our vessels are leased to our 
clients on a long-term basis, who both pay 
for fuel and determine where each vessel 
sails, we have chosen to account for their 
GHG emissions within our footprint, in 
accordance with the ‘operational control’ 
approach to developing our GHG footprint. 
The increase in emissions from fuel from 
the previous year is due to an increase in 
vessel usage and the addition of more 
vessels to our fleet. 36 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 36 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s Introduction 38
Board of Directors 40
Corporate Governance 42
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 45
Report of the Remuneration Committee 49
Report of the Nomination Committee 61
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 37
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
37 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 38 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 38 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce our 2015 Corporate Governance Report, 
our second as a premium listed company on the London Stock 
Exchange. This Corporate Governance Report explains key features 
of the Company’s governance structure to provide a greater 
understanding of how the main principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”), have been applied and to highlight 
areas of focus during the year.
The Board continues to be committed to ensuring that the Group 
operates with high standards of corporate governance. We believe 
that it is important that the governance structure supports the 
delivery of the Company’s strategy and helps ensure the continuing 
trust and support of our shareholders, employees, clients and  
other stakeholders. 
The Company’s business is international in scope and carries various 
technical and commercial risks. Therefore, key attention is given to 
the composition of the Board to ensure that it has a balance of wide 
experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which the 
Company operates, as well as appropriate financial, operational and 
risk management skills. In Board positions, whether executive or 
non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, 
ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are 
prerequisites for appointment. These prerequisites further apply to 
senior management appointments below Board level, as well as the 
Company’s succession planning.
Throughout 2015, the Board considers that the Company has 
complied in all respects with all the relevant recommendations of the 
Code. For readers wishing to review a full copy of the Code, it can be 
located on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.frc.org.uk.
The Board comprises of an independent Chairman, an executive 
Director, three independent non-executive Directors and two 
non-executive Directors who are considered by the Board to not  
be independent because of their relationship with Gulf Capital,  
a substantial shareholder in the Company. The Company has three 
Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Nomination Committee, all of which are compliant 
with the Code. The reports from the Chairman of each of these 
committees can be found later in this Annual Report. 
Looking back on 2015, the Company has strengthened its corporate 
governance polices and supported the growth strategy of the 
company by way of maintaining a robust governance structure.  
The focus for 2016 is therefore to maintain and consolidate on this 
established structure whilst continuing to support the Company with 
a highly experienced Board that provides an independent perspective.
On behalf of the Board
Simon Heale 
Chairman
21 March 2016 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 39
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
39 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2015 is shown below. 
Further 
Information Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Board (Main Meetings) Page 43
Audit and Risk Committee Page 45
Remuneration Committee Page 49
Nomination Committee Page 61
Annual General Meeting Page 114
For details of the responsibilities of the Board Committees, their terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website.
The attendance of the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown below.
 Attended
 Attended all or part of meeting as an invitee
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination
Simon Heale
              
Duncan Anderson
      
Simon Batey
              
H. Richard Dallas
        
Dr Karim El Solh
      
Mike Straughen
              
W. Richard Anderson
              
Christopher Foll, a Chartered Accountant and Chief Financial Officer of Gulf Capital, has been appointed as an alternate Director for H. Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh; further 
details can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 63.
Governance Calendar for 2015
Meeting Attendance by Directors in 2015 40 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 40 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
 
Simon Heale Duncan Anderson Simon Batey 
Independent  
Non-executive Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Appointment Date February 2014 January 2014  
(with the Group since  
October 2007)
February 2014
Experience A non-executive director at 
Coats plc from 2010 to 2014. 
Served on the boards of PZ 
Cussons from 2007 to 2013  
and Morgan Advanced Materials 
from 2005 to 2014. Non-
executive director and chairman 
at Panmure Gordon & Co plc 
from 2007 to 2011. Has 
extensive experience in senior 
executive roles, including as 
chief executive at the London 
Metal Exchange from 2001 to 
2006, chief operating officer and 
chief financial officer at Jardine 
Fleming Ltd from 1997 to 2001 
and deputy managing director 
at Cathay Pacific Airways  
from 1994 to 1997. 
A Chartered Accountant  
with a degree in Philosophy, 
Politics and Economics from 
Oxford University. 
Brings a wealth of experience, 
spanning more than 34 years,  
to the executive team gained 
from prior role as chief operating 
officer at the UAE-based 
Lamnalco Group, which included 
the management of a fleet of 90 
vessels, as well as increasing the 
client base in West Africa and 
the Middle East. Also operated 
the largest offshore service 
vessel fleet in the region as  
chief operating officer at Gulf 
Offshore North Sea. Responsible 
for leading the management  
of the GMS Group and the 
implementation of its strategy. 
A UK Chartered Engineer, with 
a post-graduate BSc (Hons) 
degree in Marine Machinery 
Monitoring Control. 
An independent non-executive 
director and chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Telecity 
Group from 2007 to 2016.  
A non-executive director at  
Arriva plc from 2003 to 2010, 
THUS Group plc in 2006 and 
BlackRock New Energy 
Investment Trust plc from 2010 
to 2014. A member of the Postal 
Services Commission, responsible 
for the regulation of the UK 
postal services sector, from  
2010 to 2011. As a Chartered 
Accountant, spent 12 years in 
professional practice with 
Armitage & Norton (now part of 
KPMG), latterly as a partner. Has 
more than 20 years’ experience 
in a number of senior finance 
roles in industry. Group finance 
director of United Utilities plc 
between 2000 and 2006. Chief 
financial officer at Thames Water 
Utilities Ltd from 2006 to 2007. 
Between 1987 and 2000, worked 
at AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, 
initially as deputy group finance 
director and then, from 1992, as 
group finance director.
A Chartered Accountant with 
an MA in Geography from 
Oxford University. 
External Appointments Non-executive chairman at Kaz 
Minerals plc, previously known 
as Kazakhmys plc, since 2013 
and a non-executive director 
since 2007. Non-executive 
chairman of Marex Spectron 
since 2016 and a non-executive 
director since 2007. A trustee  
of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Member of ABS Worldwide 
Technical Committee.
Capital programme  
consultancy work.
Committees Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 41
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
41 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
W. Richard Anderson Mike Straughen H. Richard Dallas Dr Karim El Solh 
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
February 2014 February 2014 February 2014 February 2014
Has 37 years’ experience in the 
oil and gas industry and related 
finance and management. 
Previously, chief financial officer 
at Eurasia Drilling Company from 
2008 to 2015 and a member of 
the Board from 2011 to 2015. 
President and chief executive 
officer at Prime Natural 
Resources Inc from 1999 to 2007. 
Partner from 1989 to 1995 and 
then managing partner from 
1995 to 1998 at Hein & 
Associates LLP. Served on the 
boards of Calibre Energy Inc from 
2005 to 2007, Transocean Ltd 
from 2007 to 2011 and Boots & 
Coots Inc from 1999 to 2010.
A Certified Public Accountant, 
with a BSc in Business from 
University of Colorado, magna 
cum laude, and a Masters in 
Taxation from the University  
of Denver.
Board member of the John 
Wood Group PLC and chief 
executive officer of the 
Engineering Division from  
2007 to 2014. With AMEC 
for 25 years, latterly as group 
managing director responsible 
for UK activities across all 
sectors including global oil & gas. 
A member of PILOT, the UK 
Government Oil & Gas Advisory 
Board, from 2000 to 2007 and 
chairman of the Energy Industry 
Council from 2002 to 2007. 
Recently a member of the UK 
Government’s Offshore Wind 
Cost Reduction Task Force.  
A member of the Scottish 
Government’s Energy Advisory 
Board from January 2013 to 
September 2014.
A Chartered Engineer with  
a BSc (Hons) degree in 
Mechanical Engineering  
from Newcastle University.
Previously served as managing 
director of Oryx Capital 
International, an investment 
group composed of families  
from GCC that specialised in 
small to mid-cap investments in 
the United States, from 1998 to 
2007. A partner of Gibson, Dunn 
& Crutcher from 1985 to 1998 
and established and managed 
offices in London and  
Saudi Arabia. 
Holds an A.B. degree in 
Economics, with honours, from 
Stanford University and a J.D. 
degree from the University of 
Southern California.
Co-founder of Gulf Capital, one 
of the largest alternative asset 
management firms in the Middle 
East, since its formation in 2006. 
Under his leadership, Gulf Capital 
has been associated with some 
of the region’s most prominent 
transactions, with the firm 
managing in excess of  
US$ 53 billion in assets.
Chairman of Maritime Industrial 
Services from 2007 to 2011  
and Chairman of Metito from 
2006 to 2014. Chief executive 
officer of the Abu Dhabi-based 
Investment Bank, The National 
Investor, from 2001 to 2005. 
Holds a B.S. degree in Civil 
Engineering from Cornell 
University, an MBA from 
Georgetown University and a 
Doctorate in Economics from 
the Institute D’Etudes Politiques 
de Paris (Science Po).
Chairman of the board at 
Vanguard Natural Resources 
LLC since 2008. Non-executive 
director at Soma Oil & Gas 
Holdings since 2013.
A non-executive director  
of three privately owned  
oilfield services businesses.  
A member of the Energy 
Institute since 2001.
Managing director at Gulf Capital 
since 2007. 
Chief executive officer 
of Gulf Capital since 2006.
Co-managing partner of 
Gulf Related since 2010.
Chairman of Reach Group 
since 2014. 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk, 
and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Risk, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
   
Simon Heale Duncan Anderson Simon Batey 
Independent  
Non-executive Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent  
Non-executive Director
Appointment Date February 2014 January 2014  
(with the Group since  
October 2007)
February 2014
Experience A non-executive director at 
Coats plc from 2010 to 2014. 
Served on the boards of PZ 
Cussons from 2007 to 2013  
and Morgan Advanced Materials 
from 2005 to 2014. Non-
executive director and chairman 
at Panmure Gordon & Co plc 
from 2007 to 2011. Has 
extensive experience in senior 
executive roles, including as 
chief executive at the London 
Metal Exchange from 2001 to 
2006, chief operating officer and 
chief financial officer at Jardine 
Fleming Ltd from 1997 to 2001 
and deputy managing director 
at Cathay Pacific Airways  
from 1994 to 1997. 
A Chartered Accountant  
with a degree in Philosophy, 
Politics and Economics from 
Oxford University. 
Brings a wealth of experience, 
spanning more than 34 years,  
to the executive team gained 
from prior role as chief operating 
officer at the UAE-based 
Lamnalco Group, which included 
the management of a fleet of 90 
vessels, as well as increasing the 
client base in West Africa and 
the Middle East. Also operated 
the largest offshore service 
vessel fleet in the region as  
chief operating officer at Gulf 
Offshore North Sea. Responsible 
for leading the management  
of the GMS Group and the 
implementation of its strategy. 
A UK Chartered Engineer, with 
a post-graduate BSc (Hons) 
degree in Marine Machinery 
Monitoring Control. 
An independent non-executive 
director and chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Telecity 
Group from 2007 to 2016.  
A non-executive director at  
Arriva plc from 2003 to 2010, 
THUS Group plc in 2006 and 
BlackRock New Energy 
Investment Trust plc from 2010 
to 2014. A member of the Postal 
Services Commission, responsible 
for the regulation of the UK 
postal services sector, from  
2010 to 2011. As a Chartered 
Accountant, spent 12 years in 
professional practice with 
Armitage & Norton (now part of 
KPMG), latterly as a partner. Has 
more than 20 years’ experience 
in a number of senior finance 
roles in industry. Group finance 
director of United Utilities plc 
between 2000 and 2006. Chief 
financial officer at Thames Water 
Utilities Ltd from 2006 to 2007. 
Between 1987 and 2000, worked 
at AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, 
initially as deputy group finance 
director and then, from 1992, as 
group finance director.
A Chartered Accountant with 
an MA in Geography from 
Oxford University. 
External Appointments Non-executive chairman at Kaz 
Minerals plc, previously known 
as Kazakhmys plc, since 2013 
and a non-executive director 
since 2007. Non-executive 
chairman of Marex Spectron 
since 2016 and a non-executive 
director since 2007. A trustee  
of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Member of ABS Worldwide 
Technical Committee.
Capital programme  
consultancy work.
Committees Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 42 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 42 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Corporate Governance Report
Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”)
The Company has complied with all the relevant provisions set out in 
the Code during the year. 
Governance Overview
Membership of the Board 
The composition of the Board complies with the provision of the  
UK Code which provides that independent non-executive Directors 
should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Chairman
Simon Heale
Executive Director
Duncan Anderson
Senior Independent non-executive 
Director Simon Batey
Non-executive Directors
Karim El Solh, H. Richard Dallas
Independent non-executive Directors
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen
 
The composition, qualifications, experience and balance of skills on 
the Board are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that there 
is the right mix on the Board and its Committees and that they are 
working effectively. The current members of the Board have a wide 
range of skills and experience and their biographies can be found on 
pages 40 to 41. 
Non-executive Director Independence
The Board considers and reviews the independence of each 
non-executive Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors’ 
performance evaluation. In carrying out the review, consideration is 
given to factors such as their character, judgment, commitment and 
performance on the Board and relevant Committees and their ability 
to provide objective challenge to Management. Following the annual 
review for 2015, the Board concluded that each of the independent 
non-executive Directors reviewed continue to demonstrate those 
behaviours and continued to be considered by the Board as 
independent.
Division of Responsibilities
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, a clear 
written division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer has been agreed by the Board. The 
Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of  
the Board. He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are 
appropriate and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors actively 
contribute to the determination of the Group’s strategy. The Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management  
of the Group and implementing the Group’s strategy, developing 
proposals for Board approval and ensuring that a regular dialogue 
with shareholders is maintained. The separation of authority 
enhances independent oversight of Executive Management by the 
Board and helps to ensure that no one individual on the Board has 
unfettered authority.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman Chief Executive Officer 
• Provided strategic insight from his wide-ranging business 
experience and contacts built up over many years.
• Met major shareholders on governance matters and was an 
alternate point of contact instead of the Chief Executive Officer 
for shareholders on other matters as well.
• Provided a sounding board for the Chief Executive Officer on key 
business decisions, challenging proposals where appropriate.
• Agreed with executive Director’s subjects for particular 
consideration by the Board during the year at Board meetings, 
ensuring that adequate time is available to discuss all  
agenda items.
• Promoted effective relations between the non-executive 
Directors and the Executive Management.
• Brought matters of particular significance or risk to the 
Chairman, for discussion and consideration if appropriate.
• Represented the Group to its shareholders, customers, 
suppliers and the general industry.
• Led the business and the rest of the management team.
• Led the development of the Group’s strategy with input from 
the rest of the Board and our advisers.
• Worked with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for particular 
consideration by the Board during the year.
Senior Independent Director Company Secretary 
• Made himself available to shareholders if they had concerns  
that could not be addressed through normal channels.
• Acted as an internal sounding board for the Chairman.
• Served as an intermediary for the other Directors with the 
Chairman when necessary.
• Ensured balanced understanding of major shareholders’  
issues and concerns.
• Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, reporting 
directly to their Chairman.
• Assisted the Chairman to ensure that Board papers are clear, 
accurate, timely, succinct and of sufficient quality to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties effectively.
• Provided advice to the Board and each of its Committees through 
the Chairman concerning Board and governance matters.
Division of Board Responsibilities
Effective Division of Responsibilities and Board Operation GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 43
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
43 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
How the Board Operates
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership  
of the Company, exercising its business judgment on behalf of the 
Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls. It 
also agrees the strategic direction and governance structure that 
will help achieve the long-term success of the Company and deliver 
shareholder value. The Board takes the lead in areas such as 
strategy, financial policy, annual budgeting, significant potential 
acquisitions, risk management and the overall system of internal 
control. The Board’s full responsibilities are set out in the matters 
reserved for the Board. The ultimate responsibility for the Company 
rests with the Board and its legal powers and responsibilities are 
stated in the Articles of Association, which are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office in the UK. 
The Board delegates authority to its Committees to carry out 
certain tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and give 
the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters. 
The composition and role of each Committee is summarised on 
pages 45 to 61 and their full terms of reference are available on  
the Company’s website.
The Chairman, along with the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Company Secretary, has established Board processes designed to 
maximise its performance. Key aspects of these are shown below:
• the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary 
meet towards the beginning of each year to agree an overall 
calendar of subjects to be discussed by the Board during the year.
• Board meetings are timetabled to ensure adequate time for  
open discussion of each agenda item allowing for questions, 
scrutiny, constructive challenge and full debates on key matters 
for decisions to be taken by consensus (although any dissenting 
views would be minuted accordingly).
• the development of Group strategy is led by the Chief Executive 
Officer, with input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing 
from the non-executive Directors and subsequently reviewed 
throughout the year.
• good working relationships exist between non-executive Directors 
and non-Board members of the senior management team.
• members of the senior management team draw on the collective 
experience of the Board, including its non-executive Directors.
• comprehensive reporting packs, which are designed to be clear, 
accurate and analytical, are normally distributed in advance  
of Board meetings allowing sufficient time for their review, 
consideration and clarification or amplification of reports in 
advance of the meeting.
• once goals have been set and actions agreed, the Board receives 
regular reports on their implementation.
• comprehensive management accounts with commentary  
and analysis are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
• the Board reviews the Group’s risk register at each of its main 
meetings and challenges this where appropriate.
• the Board visits the Group’s major business locations both to 
review its operations and new build vessels and to meet with  
local management.
• all Directors have open access to the Group’s key advisers, 
including Management and the Company Secretary, and are also 
entitled to seek independent professional advice at the Group’s 
expense where appropriate.
Board Calendar for 2015
At each main meeting
Review and discussion of:
• investor relations and feedback
• new build programme
• market update
• contractual update
• operational matters
• strategic opportunities
Review of reports on:
• finance and accounting matters
• health, safety and environment
• personnel and support services
• risk management
• trading and forecast update
Review of reports from Board 
Committees as relevant
At specific meetings
January March May June August October December
Macro-economic 
conditions
Competitive 
landscape
Group Dividend 
Policy and  
Gearing
Approval of  
latest new  
build vessel
Nomination 
Committee  
Report:
• Board  
Evaluation 
Process
Review and  
approval of  
2014 annual results
Review of key  
risks facing  
the Group
Macro-economic 
conditions
Competitive 
landscape
Competitive 
landscape
Group 
Dividend 
Policy and  
Gearing
Succession 
planning
Review and  
approval  
of 2015  
Half Year  
Results
Review of key  
risks facing  
the Group
Macro-
economic 
conditions
Group capital 
structure
Group three 
year strategic 
plan
Competitive 
landscape
Approval  
of Group  
refinancing 
plans
Approval  
of Group 
Strategic  
Plan (2016  
to 2019)
Review and 
approval of 
2016 budget
Approval of 
2016 Group 
KPIs
Annual 
discussion  
in absence  
of Chairman 44 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 44 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
Appointment and Tenure
All non-executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of 
appointment which are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. The letters of appointment set out the expected 
time commitment of non-executive Directors, who, on appointment, 
undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is 
expected of them. 
The non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three 
years, subject to earlier termination, including provision for early 
termination by either the Company or the non-executive Director  
on three months’ notice. In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, all Directors must retire by rotation and seek 
re-election by shareholders every three years; however, it is 
intended that the Directors will each retire and submit themselves 
for re-election by shareholders annually.
Director Induction and Training 
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at 
Board meetings and briefings are arranged on issues relating to 
corporate governance and other areas of importance. Arrangements 
are in place for any newly appointed Directors to undertake an 
induction programme designed to develop their knowledge and 
understanding of the Company. The induction programme includes 
briefing sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to the 
Company’s fabrication yard, meetings with members of the wider 
management team and discussions on relevant business issues. 
Upon appointment Directors are advised of their legal and other 
duties and their obligations as Directors of a listed company and 
under the Companies Act 2006 and they receive training from the 
Company’s lawyers. 
Director Election 
Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee,  
the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, 
committed to their roles and have sufficient time available to 
perform their duties. In accordance with the provisions B.7.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will be subject to annual 
re-election. Accordingly, all Directors elected in 2015 will seek 
re-election at the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
as set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting (see page 114 
for resolutions relating to re-election of Directors). 
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they 
have or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, 
unless that conﬂict is first authorised by the Directors. This includes 
potential conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position 
with another company. The Company’s Articles of Association allow 
the other Directors to authorise such potential conflicts, and there  
is in place a procedure to deal with any actual or potential conﬂict  
of interest. The Board deals with each actual or potential conﬂict  
of interest on its individual merit and takes into consideration all  
the circumstances. 
All potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an 
Interests Register, which is reviewed by the Board at each main 
Board meeting to ensure that the procedure is operating at 
maximum effectiveness. 
Board Evaluation and Effectiveness 
Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving 
their aims is the effectiveness with which they operate. Accordingly, 
we take our evaluation of this seriously. An internal evaluation was 
conducted by the Chairman in 2015 by way of a questionnaire which 
was completed by the Directors. The questionnaire was structured 
to provide Directors with an opportunity to express their views on a 
range of matters including:
• strategy and implementation;
• succession planning and talent development; 
• Board dynamics and operation;
• Chairman effectiveness;
• performance of the Board and each of its Committees; and
• Director self-assessment and training needs.
Following the internal evaluation process conducted in 2016, the 
Board and the Board Committees are satisfied that they are 
operating effectively and that each Director has performed well  
and demonstrated commitment in respect of their individual roles  
on the Board. In accordance with the provisions B.6.2 of UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board intends to undertake an 
externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years with the 
next one scheduled in 2017.
Dialogue with shareholders
Shareholder Engagement Annual General Meeting
Responsibility for shareholder relations rest with the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer. They ensure that there is effective 
communication with shareholders on matters such as governance and 
strategy, and are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands  
the views of major shareholders.
As part of our investor relations programme a combination of presentations, 
Group calls and one-to-one meetings are arranged to discuss the Company’s 
interim and final results with stock market participants. In the intervening periods 
meetings are held with existing and prospective shareholders to update them on 
our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company. Periodically we 
arrange visits to the business to give analysts, brokers and major shareholders 
a better understanding of how we manage our business and to ensure we 
understand the views of our shareholders. These visits and meetings are 
principally undertaken by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of its shareholders from  
its brokers at its Board meetings. In addition, the Senior Independent  
Director is available to meet if they wish to raise issues separately from  
the arrangements as described above.
The presentations to analysts are published on the Company’s website.
The Company’s 2016 AGM will take place at  
11.30am (UK time) on Wednesday 11 May 2016 at 
Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend 
and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM. The 
notice of the AGM can be found on page 114 and on 
the Company’s website. The Notice of AGM sets out 
the business of the Meeting and an explanatory 
note on all resolutions. Separate resolutions are 
proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
The AGM is the Company’s principal forum for 
communication with private shareholders. In 
addition to the formal business, there will be  
a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer  
on the performance of the Group and its future 
development. The Chairman of the Board and the 
Chairman of each Board Committee, together with 
members of senior management, will be available  
to answer shareholders’ questions at the AGM. GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 45
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
45 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Audit and Risk Committee report  
for 2015. The integrity of the Group’s financial results and the 
effectiveness of its risk management and internal control systems 
are important both to Directors and to shareholders. They are also 
critical to the way the Group’s business is operated as they are 
required to measure and to sustain achievement of its strategic 
objectives. As the Audit and Risk Committee, we assist the  
Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk 
management and internal controls. We test and challenge these 
areas in conjunction with management and the internal and external 
auditors as appropriate.
The composition of the Committee remains in compliance with the 
UK Code which provides that all members of the Committee should 
be independent non-executive Directors. The members of the 
Committee who served during the year have been shown above.
The Audit and Risk Committee’s  
responsibilities include:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group 
and formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting 
judgments contained in them;
• reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and 
disclosures in financial reports;
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and internal 
control and risk management systems;
• monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function;
• reviewing the terms of engagement, independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditors;
• advising the Board on the policy with regards to audit tendering, 
taking into account relevant regulatory requirements and making 
recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or 
reappointment of the external auditor;
• assessing the external audit process and the appropriateness of 
the external auditors to supply non-audit services, in accordance 
with Group policy; 
• reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring 
that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and 
independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of 
financial and other matters, for appropriate follow-up action; and
• reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or other improvement is needed 
and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities 
through a series of scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda 
of which is linked to events in the financial calendar of the Company. 
We met seven times during the financial year and attendance at 
those meetings is set out on page 39. The Committee receives reports 
from external advisers and from the senior management team, as 
required, to enable it to discharge its duties. The Chief Financial 
Officer and senior members of the finance team attend each of these 
meetings at our request. The internal auditor attends and presents 
at the majority of meetings. In addition, the external auditor attended 
3 of these meetings and had the opportunity to meet privately with 
the Committee, in the absence of senior management. 
The external auditor receives copies of all relevant Committee 
papers (including papers that were considered at the meeting when 
they were not in attendance) and minutes of all Committee meetings.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and financial statements and the half-yearly reports remains 
with the Board. The Committee gives due consideration to laws and 
regulations, the provisions of the UK Code and the requirements of 
the Listing Rules, and makes its recommendations on these reports 
to the Board. In 2015, this included an assessment of whether the 
Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable. 
Chairman and Senior Independent 
non-executive Director: Simon Batey
Independent non-executive Directors:
W. Richard Anderson
Mike Straughen
Committee members 46 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 46 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Significant Issues 
The Audit and Risk Committee pays specific attention to matters it considers important based on their potential impact on the Group’s 
results, or based on the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application. The Committee considered the following 
matters as significant issues in 2015:
Significant issue How addressed
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
IAS 36 requires that a review for impairment be carried out if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount of an asset may not be recoverable. 
The recent volatility of oil prices in the global energy market may 
impact the value in use of the vessels.
Impairment assessments are judgmental and careful consideration 
of the assumptions used in the determination of the value in use of 
the assets is required.
The Committee considered the assumptions used in the 
computation of the value in use of the vessels. Consideration 
was given to both the feasibility of the long-term business plan 
and the appropriateness of the weighted average cost of capital 
which formed an initial basis for determining the discount rate.
Capitalisation of costs 
The Group has invested substantial capital in its vessel fleet, which  
is the key component of its business offering and its major asset.
As a part of its new build programme, the Group completed the 
build of three vessels during the year. The Group also undertook 
various capital projects aimed at enhancing the Group’s asset 
offering. Careful consideration had to be given as to which costs 
met the criteria for capitalisation.
Incremental costs as a result of the project were considered  
for capitalisation.
The Committee reviewed the basis of Management’s 
assumptions over the eligibility of the costs for capitalisation.
The Committee reviewed the costs that were capitalised to  
be satisfied that they met the recognition criteria as required  
under IFRS.
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE continued
Audit and Risk Committee Calendar for 2015
At each main meeting
Reviews of financial reporting, 
including:
• Any proposed changes to accounting 
policies
• Developments in reporting and  
accounting requirements affecting  
the Group
• Key assumptions, estimates and 
judgements proposed by management
Review and discussion of:
• Risk management systems and 
internal controls, including a discussion 
of the risk management process
• Minutes of previous meetings
• Reports on implementation of actions 
from previous meetings
Consideration of internal audit:
• Internal audit reports and 
recommendations
At specific meetings
January March May June August October December
Review of 
progress in 
preparation of 
Annual Report
Plans for 
assessing the 
efficiency of 
auditors
Reviews of:
• 2014 annual 
results
• Report from 
external auditor
• Performance and 
independence  
of external 
auditor
Recommendations 
to the Board on:
• The annual 
results
• Reappointment 
of the auditors
Reviews of:
• Internal  
audit plans
• 2014 Annual 
Report 
process and 
closure
2015 Half  
Year Report 
process 
update
Approval of 
2015 Group 
Audit Fees
Review of 2015  
Half Year results
Report from 
external auditor  
on 2015 Half  
Year Results
Recommendations 
to the Board on:
• The 2015 Half 
Year results
Review of  
Group External 
Audit Plan
Presentation 
on overall 
findings from 
client audits 
conducted on  
the Group
Update on 
2015 Annual 
Report 
process GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 47
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
47 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
UK Corporate Governance Code 
The Group’s reporting for 2015 is in compliance with the latest 
updates of the UK Code, effective for premium listed companies  
with accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Modern Slavery Act 2015
The Group has initiated a working panel made up predominantly  
of members of senior management. The working panel has been 
formed to ensure the Group adheres to and is compliant with the 
requirements set out in the Modern Slavery Act 2015. The Group  
will be reporting in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015  
in the 2016 Annual Report. 
Internal Controls and Risk Management 
The Group’s systems of internal control and in particular our risk 
management process have been designed to support our strategic 
and business objectives as well as our internal control over financial 
reporting. The Board has established an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced  
by the Group that have been in place for the period under review 
and up to the date of the Annual Report. The process is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Review 
guidance on internal controls and requirements of the UK Code. 
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
The Group has a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, 
both at an operational and strategic level. Our risk identification  
and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive to 
the constantly changing environment. The internal control process 
starts with identifying risks, compliance matters and other issues 
through routine reviews carried out by process owners and 
facilitated by regular Group wide risk assessments. For risks that 
are recorded in the Group risk register, the Group then assesses  
the implications and consequences and determines the likelihood  
of occurrence. Further details of the Group’s risk management 
process can be found on pages 20 to 23. 
Internal Audit
At the majority of meetings the Committee receives a report on 
internal controls. These reports provide an update on progress 
against the internal audit plan, including the status of actions  
and management responses, key improvement themes and 
recommended areas of business focus. The internal audit function  
is largely outsourced to KPMG.
In addition to the internal audit plan, the Group is regularly audited 
by certain clients, with key findings reported to the Audit and Risk 
Committee who assess these findings and ensure that appropriate 
action is taken by Management as deemed necessary.
External Audit
Appointment and Independence of External Auditors
The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
external auditors’ independence and objectivity is not compromised. 
The Committee considers formally the reappointment of the 
external auditor each year, as well as assessing their independence 
on an ongoing basis. In accordance with UK regulations and to help 
ensure independence, our auditors adhere to a rotation policy based 
on Auditing Practices Board standards that require the Group audit 
partner to rotate every five years. This is the third year, taking into 
consideration work performed as reporting accountant for the 2014 
IPO, that the current lead audit partner has been involved in the 
audit of the Group.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as external auditor of the Company  
in 2014. The Committee is aware of the recent changes to the 
requirements for external auditor selection and rotation. Whilst we 
do not consider it necessary to have a policy for mandatory rotation 
of external audit firms, we plan to give consideration to placing 
future audits out to tender over the coming years. 
The Committee believes that it may be appropriate for the Company 
to engage its external auditor to provide non-audit services in 
limited circumstances. Given the knowledge of a company’s market, 
systems and operations which an external auditing firm gains 
through the audit process, together with effective working 
relationships developed with senior management, the Committee 
believes that on occasion appointing the Company’s external auditor 
to provide non-audit services can represent an effective and 
cost-efficient process which is in the best interests of shareholders. 
However, to ensure the continued objectivity and independence of 
the external auditor are not compromised, the Committee has 
established a non-audit services policy. 
The Committee requires specific approval for the provision of any 
non-audit services above the value of US$ 50,000 and, in the unlikely 
event that the non-audit services have resulted in a cumulative total 
of 70% or more of the overall Group audit fee in any financial year, 
then any further non-audit services carried out by the external 
auditor would be regarded as exceptional and will require the 
Committee’s prior approval. The Committee receives quarterly 
reports of any non-audit services undertaken. The Committee must 
be satisfied that the external auditor’s objectivity and independence 
would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed 
to carry out those services.
The total non-audit services provided by the Group’s external 
auditor Deloitte LLP for the year ended 31 December 2015 were  
US$ 105,000 (2014: US$ 921,000) which comprised 29% (2014: 79%) 
of total audit and non-audit fees. The prior year non-audit fees 
included work undertaken as reporting accountant as part of the 
Group’s IPO. The Committee is satisfied that the quantum and 
nature of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP during  
the current year are such that the objectivity and independence  
of the external auditor have not been compromised.
As part of the Committee’s assessment of the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor, the Committee held 2 private 
meetings with the external auditor without management being 
present. In addition, I met privately with the external audit 
Engagement Partner on several occasions.
The effectiveness of the external auditor was evaluated by  
feedback from the senior management team and the Committee  
by way of a questionnaire. We examined a range of performance 
criteria including, but not limited to, robustness of the audit process, 
independence and objectivity, quality of delivery, quality of people 
and service, and value-added advice. We also considered the 2014 
Audit Quality Inspections Report on Deloitte LLP audits carried out 
by the Financial Reporting Council. As a result of this work, the 
Committee has recommended to the Board that the reappointment 
of Deloitte LLP as the Company’s external auditor be proposed to 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 48 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 48 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Ethical Conduct
Our Code of Conduct encourages all employees to report any 
potential improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.  
The Group operates a confidential whistleblowing hotline and all 
reports received are communicated to this Committee. Where 
appropriate, our internal audit team or other third party specialist 
may be asked to investigate issues and report to us on the outcome. 
Code of Conduct training is included as part of the Company 
induction process for all new employees who join the Group. 
During the year we uncovered evidence of collusion between  
two employees suspected of behaving unethically. Reports of  
this unethical behaviour were received through the Group’s 
whistleblowing hotline and a robust external investigation was then 
conducted with both employees subsequently being terminated. 
The financial impact of this behaviour is not material. Management 
take any reports received through the whistleblowing hotline 
seriously and the External Auditors were notified at the time this 
unethical behaviour was uncovered. Management have taken steps 
to help prevent such activities occurring in the future. 
The Company operates an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and is 
satisfied that appropriate policies and training is in place to deal with 
any instances of whistleblowing and to ensure that appropriate 
follow up action is taken on a timely basis. 
On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee
Simon Batey
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
21 March 2016 
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 49
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
49 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015. Our 
remuneration arrangements have been designed in accordance with the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and current 
market and best practices for UK listed companies. They also take into account market practice and labour laws in the local UAE market. 
The composition of the Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the UK Code which provides that all members of the Committee 
should be independent non-executive Directors. 
 
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities include:
• setting the strategy, structure and levels of remuneration of our executive directors and senior management;
• ensuring compliance with internal policies whilst also adhering to legislative regulations; and
• aligning the financial interests of the executive directors and other management and employees with the achievement of the Group’s objectives. 
Our aim is to ensure that remuneration arrangements appropriately and responsibly incentivise executive directors and senior management 
to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives, in turn creating value for the Company’s shareholders. To this end, the overall remuneration 
structure for executives comprise:
• base salary, benefits and allowances – set at a level appropriate to the sector and geographic markets in which we operate;
• an annual bonus – based on measures of annual financial and strategic performance; and
• a share-based Long Term Incentive Plan – normally based on growth in a financial measure such as EPS and total shareholder return.
Further details of this structure are set out on the following pages.
The work of the Committee in 2015 was conducted against a backdrop of a difficult oil price environment in which the Company fulfilled its 
key operational and strategic objectives. In setting targets for the 2016 annual bonus, the Committee has been mindful of the continued 
challenging market conditions seen in the industry.
For the 2015 annual bonus, profit after tax performance was below the threshold required for a payment under this part of the annual 
bonus. However EBITDA margin, Total Recordable Injury Rate and progress against strategic, financial and operational objectives were 
within the target range and as such the bonus payable to the CEO was 57.5% of salary – for more details, see page 56. The weighting of 
performance conditions under the LTIP scheme has been adjusted such that relative total shareholder return is now weighted 50% rather 
than the previous 25%. The intention is that this weighting will continue for the foreseeable future. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that the current approved policy, which received over 99% support from investors, is aligned  
with both our shareholders and the Company’s strategy; therefore, there are no proposed changes in our Directors’ Remuneration  
Policy for 2016. However, we will continue to review our policy and targets for future variable pay awards so that we remain confident that 
remuneration policy reflects the Company’s strategic objectives. Although the policy is not subject to a shareholder vote in 2016 as it was 
approved by a shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM, it has been included in full on pages 50 to 55, for ease of reference alongside the Annual 
Remuneration Report. 
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM; at the 2015 AGM the 2014 Remuneration 
Report was supported by over 99% of investors. The Committee is dedicated to ensuring that our shareholders understand and support 
our policy and therefore we welcome questions and feedback regarding our remuneration structures. 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
21 March 2016
Chairman:
W. Richard Anderson
Committee members
Independent non-executive Director:
Mike Straughen
Senior Independent non-executive 
Director: Simon Batey 50 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 50 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the report, which is not subject to audit, sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in 
accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The policy 
has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the views of our major shareholders. The 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved at the Company’s Annual General Meeting held in 2015. No changes have been made to the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2016, other than an update to the remuneration scenario charts to reflect the latest fixed remuneration 
arrangements. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been included below for ease of reference. 
Policy overview
The Committee assists the Board in its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the 
Company’s policy on executive remuneration.
The Company’s policy is to provide remuneration to executives to reflect their contribution to the business, the performance of the Group, 
the complexity and geography of the Group’s operations and the need to attract, retain, and incentivise executives. The Committee seeks  
to provide remuneration packages that are simple, transparent and aligned with UK best and local UAE market practice, whilst providing  
an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay that supports the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The following table sets out the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Element of pay
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Base salary • To attract, retain and 
motivate individuals of  
the necessary calibre  
to execute the Group’s 
strategy
• Normally reviewed annually 
by the Committee or, if 
appropriate, in the event of 
a change in an individual’s 
position or responsibilities
• The level of base salary 
reflects the experience and 
capabilities of the individual 
as well as the scope and 
scale of the role
• Any increases to base  
pay will take into account 
individual performance  
as well as the pay and 
conditions in the workforce
• There is no prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase
• When determining the 
level of any change  
in compensation, the 
Committee takes  
into account:
 – Remuneration levels 
in comparable 
organisations in the 
UAE and the GCC
 – Remuneration levels 
in the international 
market
 – Increases for the 
workforce generally
 – Changes to an 
individual’s role, 
including any 
additional 
responsibilities
N/A
Annual bonus 
plan
• To encourage and 
reward delivery of  
the Group’s annual 
financial and 
operational objectives
• Performance measures  
and targets are reviewed 
annually by the Committee 
and are linked to the Group’s 
key strategic and financial 
objectives
• The bonus will normally  
be paid wholly in cash; 
however the Committee has 
the discretion to defer a 
proportion of the bonus  
in GMS shares or cash
• Clawback (or malus in the 
event of any deferral) 
provisions apply in the event 
of a material misstatement 
of the Group’s financial 
results or an error in the 
calculation of performance 
targets. Clawback and/or 
malus can be applied for 
three years from the end  
of the financial year to  
which a payment relates
• Normal maximum 
opportunity of 100% of 
salary (exceptional limit 
150% of salary)
• The majority of the 
annual bonus will be 
based on Group financial 
performance
• The Committee has 
discretion to vary bonus 
payments downwards or 
upwards if it considers 
the outcome would not 
otherwise be a fair and 
complete reflection of 
the performance 
achieved by the Group 
and/or the Executive 
Director. Performance 
below threshold results 
in zero payment. 
Payments increase from 
0% to 100% of the 
maximum opportunity 
for levels of performance 
between threshold and 
maximum performance 
targets
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 51
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
51 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Element of pay
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
• To incentivise  
and reward the 
achievement of key 
financial performance 
objectives and the 
creation of long-term 
shareholder value
• To encourage share 
ownership and provide 
further alignment with 
shareholders
• Annual awards of nil-cost 
options or conditional 
shares with the level of 
vesting subject to the 
achievement of stretching 
performance conditions 
measured over a  
three-year period
• Performance targets are 
reviewed annually by the 
Committee and are set at 
such a level to motivate 
management and incentivise 
out-performance
• Dividends that accrue during 
the vesting period may be 
paid in cash or shares at the 
time of vesting, to the extent 
that shares vest
• Clawback provisions apply  
in the event of a material 
misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results 
or an error in the calculation 
of performance targets. 
Clawback can be applied for 
three years from the end of 
the financial year in which 
an award vests
• Normal maximum 
opportunity of 200% of 
base salary (exceptional 
limit of 300% of  
base salary)
• Performance is assessed 
against metrics which  
will normally include a 
financial measure, such 
as EPS, and/or a measure 
linked to the Company’s 
total shareholder  
return against an 
appropriate group of 
peers. Measures are 
captured independently
• 30% of an award will vest 
for achieving threshold 
performance, increasing 
pro-rata to full vesting 
for achievement of 
maximum performance 
targets
End of service 
gratuity
• To provide an end  
of service gratuity,  
as required under the 
UAE Labour Law
• End of service gratuity 
contributions are accrued  
by the Company
• The maximum payout 
to an employee is 
limited by UAE Labour 
Law to two years’ base 
salary
N/A
Benefits • To provide competitive 
and cost-effective 
benefits to attract  
and retain high-calibre 
individuals
• Private medical insurance 
for the executive and close 
family, death in service 
insurance, disability 
insurance, accommodation 
and payment of children’s 
school fees
• Actual value of benefits 
provided
N/A
Allowances • Allowances set to cover 
essential living costs 
where this is in line with 
local market practice
• Any increases to allowances 
will take into account local 
market conditions as well  
as the allowances provided 
to the workforce
• Allowances relating to  
air travel and transport
N/A N/A
Share ownership 
guidelines 
• To encourage 
alignment with 
shareholders 
• Executive Directors are 
required to build and 
maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to at least 100% 
of base salary through the 
retention of vested share 
awards or through open 
market purchases
• A new appointment will  
be expected to reach this 
guideline in three to five 
years post-appointment
• Executive Directors are 
required to retain 50%  
of the shares (net of tax) 
vesting under the incentive 
schemes until the guideline 
has been achieved
N/A N/A 52 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 52 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Notes to table
Annual bonus performance measures
The annual bonus reflects key financial performance indicators linked to the Group’s strategic goals. Financial targets are set at the start  
of the financial year with reference to internal budgets and taking account of market expectations. The balance is based on how well the 
individual performed against a range of stretching objectives relating to key strategic and operational objectives.
LTIP performance measures
The LTIP performance measures (which are currently EPS growth and TSR relative to companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial 
services companies) reward long-term financial growth and significant long-term returns to shareholders. Targets are set on sliding scales 
that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Group. Only modest rewards are available for 
achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved  
at the start of each year. 
Discretion
The Committee operates annual bonus and long term incentive arrangements for the Executive Director(s) in accordance with their 
respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion 
over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans. These include the following: 
• Who participates;
• The timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
• The size of an award (up to plan limits) and/or a payment;
• The annual review of performance measures, targets and weightings for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year;
• Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or restructuring;
• Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes;
• Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Awards granted prior to approval of policy
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former Directors (such as the vesting or exercise of past share awards granted pre- or post-IPO but before the 
AGM at which this policy is approved by shareholders). 
How remuneration of Executive Directors differs from employees generally, and how their views are taken 
into account in setting remuneration policy 
When considering the structure and levels of Executive Director remuneration, the Committee reviews base salary and annual bonus 
arrangements for the management team, to ensure that there is a coherent approach across the Group. The annual bonus plan operates on 
a similar basis across the senior management team. The key difference in the Executive Director Policy is that remuneration is more heavily 
weighted towards variable pay than that of other employees. This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for 
shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive director(s). 
The Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy, however 
the Human Resources Director is available to discuss issues relating to the wider employee population.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors. The Committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity  
to meet and communicate with investors, giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may have. In addition, 
the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any changes be planned to  
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy or if the Committee wishes to make material changes to how Policy will be implemented. 
Following the Company’s AGM in 2016, details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be included in the next Annual Report on Remuneration published following the AGM.
The Company is required to prepare, and seek shareholder approval for an updated Directors’ Remuneration Policy at least once every 
three years.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 53
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
53 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Directors’ recruitment and promotions 
The policy on the recruitment or promotion of an Executive Director takes into account the need to attract, retain and motivate the  
best person for each position, while at the same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests of shareholders and management, 
as follows:
Base salary The base salary for a new appointment will be set taking into account the skills and experience of the 
individual, internal relativities and the market rate for the role as identified by any relevant benchmarking  
of companies of a comparable size and complexity. 
If it is considered appropriate to set the salary for a new Executive Director at a level which is below market 
(for example, to allow them to gain experience in the role) their salary may be increased to achieve the 
desired market positioning by way of a series of phased above inflation increases. Any increases will be 
subject to the individual’s continued development in the role.
End of service gratuity,  
benefits and allowances
End of service gratuity, benefits and allowances will be set in line with the policy above, reflective of typical 
market practice and the Labour Law for the UAE. The Committee may also approve the payment of one-off 
relocation-related expenses and legal fees incurred by the individual.
In the event of an Executive Director being recruited to work outside the UAE, additional benefits, pension 
provision and/or allowances may be provided in line with local market practice.
Annual bonus and LTIP The Company’s incentive plans will be operated, as set out in the policy table above, albeit with any payment 
pro-rata for the period of employment and with the flexibility to use different performance measures and 
targets, depending on the timing and nature of the appointment.
Remuneration foregone The Committee may offer cash and/or share-based elements to compensate an individual for remuneration 
and benefits that would be forfeited on leaving a former employer, when it considers these to be in the best 
interests of the Group (and therefore shareholders). 
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished and would mirror (as far as possible) the 
delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirement attached to that remuneration.
Where possible this will be facilitated through existing share plans as set out in the policy table above, but if 
not the Committee may use the provisions of 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules.
Internal appointments In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be 
allowed to pay out according to its original terms stipulated on grant or adjusted as considered desirable to 
reflect the new role. 54 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 54 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued
Directors’ service agreements and payments for loss of office 
The Committee seeks to ensure that contractual terms of the Executive Director’s service agreement reflect best practice. 
Notice period The CEO’s service agreement is terminable by either the Company or the Director on twelve months’ notice. 
In circumstances of termination on notice the Committee will determine an equitable compensation package, 
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case. The Committee has discretion to require notice to 
be worked, to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on gardening leave. 
The Company may terminate the appointment summarily with immediate effect if the Director is guilty of 
gross misconduct in accordance with relevant provisions of the UAE labour law.
Payment in lieu of notice In case of payment in lieu, base salary, allowances, benefits and end of service gratuity will be paid for the 
period of notice served or paid in lieu. 
If the Committee believes it would be in shareholders’ interests, payments would be made either as one 
lump sum or in equal monthly instalments and in the case of payment in lieu will be subject to be offset 
against earnings elsewhere.
Annual bonus An annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the bonus plan year worked by the  
Director; there is no provision for an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice  
period not worked. 
LTIP Outstanding share awards under the LTIP are subject to the rules which contain discretionary provisions 
setting out the treatment of awards where a participant leaves for designated reasons (i.e. participants  
who leave early on account of injury, disability or ill health, death, a sale of their employer or business in 
which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of  
the Committee). 
In these circumstances a participant’s awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and instead 
will continue to vest on the normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Committee, subject to the 
performance conditions attached to the relevant awards. The awards will, other than in exceptional 
circumstances, be scaled back pro-rata for the period of the incentive term worked by the Director.
Other payments In addition to the above payments, the Committee may make any other payments determined by a court  
of law in respect of the termination of a Director’s contract. 
Change of control In the event of a change of control all unvested awards under the LTIP would vest, to the extent that any 
performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been achieved. 
The date of the CEO’s Executive Service Agreement is 12 March 2014. The service contract is available for inspection during normal business 
hours at the Company’s registered office, and available for inspection at the AGM. 
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors in other companies and that these 
appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Group. It is policy that Board approval is required before 
any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. An Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such 
services. The current Executive Director does not hold any such external appointments.
Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy and terms of engagement
The following table sets out the components of the non-executive Directors’ remuneration package.
Element of pay
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Performance 
criteria
Non-executive  
Directors’ fee
• Set to attract, retain  
and motivate talented 
individuals through  
the provision of market 
competitive fees
• Reviewed periodically by 
the Board or, if appropriate, 
in the event of a change  
in an individual’s position  
or responsibilities
• Fee levels set by reference 
to market rates, taking into 
account the individual’s 
experience, responsibility 
and time commitments
• There is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase
• The Board takes into 
account external market 
practice, pay increases 
within the Group, wider 
economic factors and any 
changes in responsibilities 
when determining fee 
increases
N/A
Non-executive  
Directors’ benefits
• Travel to the 
Company’s  
registered office
• Travel to the Company’s 
registered office may  
in some jurisdictions  
be recognised as a  
taxable benefit
• Costs of travel, grossed-up 
where taxable
N/A GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 55
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
55 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Non-executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, which are terminable by three months’ 
notice on either side. However, it is the Company’s intention to comply with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
accordingly all Directors will stand for annual re-election by shareholders at future AGMs until the Board determines otherwise. The dates  
of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and non-executive Directors are:
Simon Heale Chairman 27 February 2014
H. Richard Dallas Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Dr Karim El Solh Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Simon Batey Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Mike Straughen Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
W. Richard Anderson Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
The letters of appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office. For the 
appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration 
policy in force at that time.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. Sections of this report that are subject to audit, on pages 57 to 59 have been indicated.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The Remuneration Committee will assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding all matters related to remuneration, including 
making recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on executive remuneration. In reviewing executive remuneration, the 
Committee may set the over-arching principles, parameters and governance framework of the Group’s Remuneration Policy and determine 
the individual remuneration and benefits package of the Executive Director(s) and the Company Secretary. In addition, the Committee 
monitors the structure and level of remuneration for the senior management team and is aware of pay and conditions in the workforce 
generally. The Committee also ensures full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
Members and activities of the Committee
The members of the Committee during 2015 were W. Richard Anderson (Chairman), Simon Batey and Mike Straughen. All members were 
Independent non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director are normally invited 
to attend for at least part of each meeting to allow the Committee to benefit from their contextual advice. The Group Chairman also normally 
attends meetings by invitation. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. These individuals are not present when their 
own remuneration is discussed. 
The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each member is shown in the table below. The Committee also held informal 
discussions as required. 
Number of meetings attended out of a potential maximum
W. Richard Anderson 3 out of 3
Simon Batey 3 out of 3
Mike Straughen 3 out of 3
External advice received
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on remuneration matters from Mercer Limited (“Mercer”). Mercer is a member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting  
in the UK. The fees paid to Mercer for advice in 2015 were US$ 41,680. Mercer also provided support to the Company in respect of the 
remuneration of the wider employee population. Mercer is a division of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (“MMC”). Another division of MMC 
provides broker services with regard to the Group medical insurance. However, notwithstanding this relationship, the Committee is satisfied 
that Mercer’s advice to the Committee is objective and independent, as they are two distinct autonomous business divisions within MMC.
Shareholder voting at AGM
The 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. At the AGM held in 2015, votes 
cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Resolution Votes for
% of votes 
for
Votes 
against
% of votes 
against
Votes 
withheld 
Total votes 
cast
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 262,212,314 99.24 2,021,422 0.76 213,680 264,447 ,416
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 31 December 2014
262,258,736 99.25 1,975,000 0.75 213,680 264,447 ,416 56 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 56 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016
The Remuneration Policy adopted at the AGM held in 2015 will continue to be implemented during 2016 as follows:
Base salary
The CEO’s base salary was reviewed on listing and also at the end of 2015 to determine the appropriate salary for the coming year. The 
CEO’s base salary was augmented to reward strong performance and to ensure the remuneration package remains competitive in line with 
current market levels. As a point of comparison, increases to salary levels for the workforce generally ranged from 0% to 15% during 2015, 
averaging 3%. Accordingly, base salary for 2016 will be as follows: 
Base salary 
 from 1 January 
2016  
US$’000
Base salary  
from 1 January 
2015  
US$’000 % increase
Duncan Anderson
1
462 440 5%
1. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67.
Allowances and benefits for 2016
The cash allowances for 2016 comprise payments to cover costs of air travel and transport and for 2016 will be as follows: 
Allowances from 
1 January 2016  
US$’000
Allowances from  
1 January 2015  
US$’000 % increase
Duncan Anderson
1
39 37 5%
1. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67.
Other benefits to be provided directly include accommodation, private medical insurance for the executive and close family, death in service 
insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees.
Annual bonus for 2016 
For 2016 the annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of base salary. The annual bonus will be assessed against financial and personal 
objectives to provide a rounded assessment of the Group and individual’s performance, weighted as follows:
Measure Weighting
Profit after tax 25%
EBITDA margin 25%
Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 10%
Strategic, financial and operational objectives 40%
Total 100%
The Committee considers the targets to be commercially sensitive, but will provide details of performance against the financial targets 
retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results  
or an error in the calculation of performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which  
a payment relates.
 
Long term incentive plan to be granted in 2016
The Committee intends to grant an LTIP award to the CEO in 2016 over shares with a value of 150% of base salary. The award will vest three 
years after grant, subject to performance measured over three financial years commencing with the year of grant. Vesting of 50% of the 
award will be based on the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of EPS and the other 50% will be determined by TSR relative to the FTSE 
250 Index excluding financial services companies. It was decided to increase the percentage vesting based on relative TSR due to the 
inherent difficulties in setting EPS targets in the current volatile market conditions. The intention is that this weighting will continue for the 
foreseeable future.
EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance, as they incentivise and reward for 
improvement in the long-term financial performance of the Group, together with the creation of value for shareholders. The Committee 
reviewed the range of EPS growth for the LTIP to be awarded in 2016. In the context of the impact of the world oil prices, it set a range that  
is lower than that set for the last cycle, but which remains considerably stretching and well above the ranges seen in the majority of  
listed companies.
Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error in the calculation of 
performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year in which an award vests.
Performance condition Threshold target (30% vesting) Stretch target (100% vesting)
EPS CAGR 15% per annum 21.5% per annum
Relative TSR Median of index Upper quartile of index
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 57
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
57 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
End of service gratuity 
As required under the UAE Labour Law, the Company accrues for the end of service gratuity entitlement in respect of the CEO, whereby the 
gratuity is 21 days’ base salary (excluding fixed cash allowances) for each year of the first five years of employment and 30 days’ wages for 
each additional year of employment thereafter, up to a limit of two years’ total wages.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors
The Chairman and non-executive Directors’ remuneration is determined by the Board, based on the responsibility and time committed to 
the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual non-executive Directors do not take part in discussions regarding their 
own fees. The Chairman and non-executive Directors receive no other benefits and do not participate in short-term or long-term reward 
schemes. A summary of the current fees and those for 2016 are set out below; no increase in fee levels is proposed in 2016. Please note  
that fees are determined in Pound Sterling.
Annual Fee 
2016  
£’000
Annual Fee 
2015  
£’000 % increase
Chairman 175 175 0%
Non-executive Director base fee 50 50 0%
Additional fees:
Senior Independent Director 5 5 0%
Audit and Risk Committee Chair 5 5 0%
Remuneration Committee Chair 5 5 0%
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2015 (audited)
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2015. 
Fixed element of pay Pay for performance
Base salary 
US$’000
Allowances 
and 
benefits
1
 
US$’000
End of 
service 
gratuity
2
 
US$’000
Annual 
Bonus
5
 
US$’000
Long Term 
Incentives
6
 
US$’000*
Other
3
 
US$’000
Total 
Remuneration 
US$’000
Executive Director 
Duncan Anderson
4,7
2015 440 167 51 253 – – 911
2014 415 182 53 353 – – 1,003
Fees 
2015  
US$’000
Fees 
2014  
US$’000
Total  
Remuneration 
2015  
US$’000
Total  
Remuneration 
2014  
US$’000
Chairman
8
Simon Heale
9,11
268 292 268 292
Non-executive Directors
8
H. Richard Dallas
10
77 76 77 76
Dr Karim El Solh
10
77 76 77 76
Simon Batey
10,12
92 92 92 92
Mike Straughen
10,12
77 76 77 76
W. Richard Anderson
10,12
84 84 84 84
Non-executive Director total 675 696 675 696
1. Allowances include fixed cash allowances for air travel and transport. Other benefits include accommodation (US$ 82,947), private medical insurance for the executive and 
immediate family, death in service insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees. 
2. End of service gratuity is the provision accrued for in the year in accordance with UAE Labour Law. 
3. In 2014, Duncan Anderson received a cash and equity award of US$ 11.8 million as settlement of a previous share appreciation rights scheme. This was funded by the shareholders 
in place prior to the IPO at no cost to the Company.
4. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67. 
5.  Annual bonus for the financial year. 
6.  Share plans vesting represent the value of LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year.
7. Duncan Anderson was appointed as a Director of the Company on 24 January 2014.
8. The Chairman and non-executive Directors’ remuneration is paid in Pound Sterling and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1.53/£ 1 during 2015. 
9. Simon Heale was appointed as Chairman on 27 February 2014. 
10. H. Richard Dallas, Dr Karim El Solh, Simon Batey, Mike Straughen and W. Richard Anderson were appointed as non-executive Directors on 27 February 2014. 
11. Simon Heale received a pro-rata annual fee of £ 175,000 (per annum) from 1 January 2014 to the date of his appointment (27 February 2014) in consideration of advisory work 
performed prior to his formal appointment as Chairman.
12. The Independent non-executive Directors received a pro-rata equivalent of their basic annual fee of £ 50,000 per annum for the period from 1 February 2014 to the date of their 
appointment (27 February 2014) in consideration of advisory work performed prior to their formal appointments as Independent non-executive Directors.
Christopher Foll was appointed as an Alternate Director on 27 February 2014; he receives no remuneration for this appointment. 58 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 58 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Annual bonus for 2015 (audited)
For 2015 the annual bonus opportunity was set at 100% of base salary. The annual bonus was assessed against the following financial and 
personal objectives:
Measure Weighting
Performance range 
(from zero to 
maximum  
pay-out) Result
% of salary paid  
in cash
Profit after tax 25% US$ 95m – US$ 105m US$ 75.0m 0%
EBITDA margin 25% 61% – 65% 63% 10%
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 10% 3.1 – 0 0.18 10%
Strategic, financial and operational objectives 40% * * 37.5%
Total 100% 57.5%
*  Objectives set related to key operational, financial and strategic objectives, with targets for each aligned with delivery of the Company’s annual corporate objectives and long-term 
financial plan. The details of these objectives are commercially sensitive, however in 2015 they included the delivery of certain new build SESVs on schedule and on budget, the winning 
of contracts for certain vessels and the implementation of an appropriate re-financing strategy for the Group. The large majority of these measures were fully achieved, which the 
Committee considers to be reflective of strong progress overall, and therefore this resulted in a payment of 37.5% out of a possible 40%.
The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results 
or an error in the calculation of performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which a 
payment relates.
Share appreciation rights settlement (audited)
During the year 2014, the CEO’s vested share appreciation rights, from a previous share appreciation rights scheme, were settled as shown 
in the table below. No share appreciation rights were granted or vested in 2015. This has not been included within the table above as it 
pre-dates the appointment of Duncan Anderson as the CEO of the Company.
Settlement of vested SARs
Cash payout US$ 5,857 ,657
Number of shares issued 2,614,622 shares (Market Value as on the grant date US$ 5,894,665)
1
1. Calculated as 2,614,622 shares at the IPO price of £ 1.35, converted at an exchange rate of £ 1:US$ 1.67. 
Long term incentive awards granted during the year and Directors’ interests in share plan awards (audited) 
The Committee granted an LTIP award to the CEO in May 2014 over shares with a value of 120% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject  
to the achievement of specific performance conditions and continued employment, in May 2017. In 2015 the Committee granted an LTIP 
award to the CEO in March 2015 over shares with a value of 150% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject to the achievement of specific 
performance conditions and continued employment, in March 2018. A summary of the LTIP awards granted is provided in the tables below. 
The LTIP awards do not include consideration for accrued dividends during the performance period. 
Date of grant
Number of 
shares Face value
Face value as 
a percentage  
of salary
End of 
performance 
period
Performance 
conditions
Duncan Anderson
1
8 May 2014 184,327 US$ 497 ,863 120%
31 December 
2016
See table 
below
Duncan Anderson
2
25 March 2015 346,572 US$ 660,982 150%
31 December 
2017
See table 
below
1. Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 8 May 2014, being 161.75p per share and assumes all performance conditions 
are met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £ 1: US$ 1.67. The minimum award available is nil.
2. Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 24 March 2015, being 128p per share and assumes all performance conditions 
are met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £ 1: US$ 1.49. The minimum award available is nil.
The table below shows the performance conditions of the LTIP awards.
Performance condition Weighting Threshold target (30% vesting) Stretch target (100% vesting)
Duncan Anderson (8 May 2014)
EPS CAGR 75% 15% per annum 21.5% per annum
Relative TSR 25% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
Duncan Anderson (25 March 2015)
EPS CAGR 50% 20% per annum 26.5% per annum
Relative TSR 50% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
1. FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 59
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
59 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error in the calculation of 
performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year in which an award vests.
Awards outstanding under the Company’s LTIP comprise:
Grant date
No. of 
shares 
01/01/15
Granted 
during 
the year
Vested 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
No. of 
shares 
31/12/15
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
8 May 2014 184,327 – – – – 184,327 31/12/16 08/05/17
25 March 2015 – 346,572 – – – 346,572 31/12/17 25/03/18
Total awards outstanding 530,899
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares (audited)
Through participation in performance-linked share-based plans, there is strong encouragement for executive Directors to build and 
maintain a significant shareholding in the business.
As set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Committee requires any executive Director to build and maintain a shareholding in the 
Company equivalent to 100% of base salary. Until this threshold is achieved they are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax 
value of any share award that vests. A new appointment will be expected to reach this guideline in three to five years post-appointment. The 
Chairman and non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline. 
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2015 was as follows:
Beneficially 
 owned at  
31 December 
 2015 
Beneficially 
owned at
31 December 
2014
Shareholding 
requirement 
met?
Outstanding 
LTIP awards
Duncan Anderson 2,614,622 2,614,622 Yes 530,899
Simon Heale 74,074 74,074 N/A –
H. Richard Dallas 18,518 18,518 N/A –
Dr Karim El Solh 296,296 296,296 N/A –
Simon Batey 37,037 37,037 N/A –
Mike Straughen 37,327 37,037 N/A –
W. Richard Anderson 153,453 153,453 N/A –
1. There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2016 to 10 March 2016. 
2. Full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during business hours. 
3. There are no other share, share option schemes or outstanding share awards other than LTIP awards.
4. 2,614,622 restricted shares were awarded to Duncan Anderson at IPO in settlement of outstanding share appreciation rights. These shares are fully vested and are subject to a 
lock-in until the second anniversary of the IPO.
Directors’ pension entitlement (audited)
The Company does not operate a pension scheme and accordingly no element of remuneration is pensionable. 
Payments to former directors (audited)
No payments were made to past executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the variance in base salary, allowances and benefits, and annual bonus for the CEO in the 2015 financial year, 
compared to that for the average employees:
% change
Chief Executive Officer
Base salary 6%
Allowances and benefits -8%
Bonus -28%
All employees
Base salary 3%
Allowances and benefits 5%
Bonus 3% 60 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 60 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows overall expenditure on pay in the whole Group in 2014 and 2015 financial years, compared to returns to shareholders 
through dividends:
2015  
US$’000
2014  
US$’000 % change
Overall expenditure on pay 40,668 32,879 24%
Dividends proposed 8,489 8,131 4%
T otal Shareholder Return 
This graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £ 100 invested in Gulf Marine Services PLC on 14 March 2014 (being the date that 
shares were first admitted to conditional trading) compared with the value of £ 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial 
services companies over the same period. 
Friday, 13 March 15 Wednesday, 31 December 15 0
80
100
120
140
20
40
60
Gulf Marine Services PLC
FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased)
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters).
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during the 2015 financial year are shown in the table below. Consistent with the calculation 
methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus award based on that 
year’s performance and the LTIP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus payout 
and LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for this year. 
Year ending 31 December
2015 2014 2013 2012
Chief Executive Officer
Duncan 
Anderson
Duncan 
Anderson
Duncan 
Anderson
Duncan 
Anderson
Total Remuneration (US$’000) 911 1,003 826 437
Annual bonus % 28% 35% 29% 46%
LTIP vesting % – – – –
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including the Annual Report on Remuneration, was approved by the Board on 21 March 2016 for 
presentation to shareholders at the AGM.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
21 March 2016
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 61
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
61 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for 2015. 
Our role is to assist the Board in the key areas of composition and 
succession planning for the Board and the senior management of 
the Group. Having an appropriate range of high calibre Directors  
on our Board is key to determining and maximising success in the 
Group’s strategic objectives. Establishing appropriate succession 
planning for the existing Board and senior management is essential 
to ensuring that this success can be sustained over the long term.
The composition of the Nomination Committee remains in compliance 
with the UK Code which provides that independent non-executive 
Directors should comprise the majority of the Committee. The 
Committee members during the year were as follows:
The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities include:
• regularly reviewing the composition and structure of the Board 
and its Committees;
• considering succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives and in doing this considering diversity, experience, 
knowledge and skillsets; and
• identifying and recommending suitable candidates to be 
appointed to the Board.
Board and Committee Evaluation
The current Board of Directors was appointed in 2014 following a 
rigorous selection process which was externally facilitated prior to 
the Group’s admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving their 
aims is the effectiveness with which they operate and accordingly, 
we take our evaluation very seriously. A Board evaluation process 
was conducted in 2015 by way of a questionnaire which was 
completed by each of the Directors. The Committee has assessed 
the results of the Board evaluation process. In light of the findings, 
we have concluded that the performance of each of the Directors 
standing for re-election continues to be effective and that these 
Directors demonstrate commitment to their roles, including 
commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any 
other duties. The Committee has also identified the future training 
requirements of the Board, as part the Board’s ongoing development 
programme. 
My performance as Chairman is evaluated by the other non-
executive Directors. The evaluation, led by the Senior Independent 
non-executive Director, is carried out at least annually and takes into 
account the views of the senior management team.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the recommendation for FTSE 350 companies 
set out in the Code, all of the Company’s Directors will stand for 
re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). The 
biographical details of the current Directors can be found on pages 
40 to 41. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive 
Directors, which includes their expected time commitment,  
are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
Diversity
The Nomination Committee very much takes into account the 
benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender. Currently all 
members of the Board are male. The Board does however remain 
diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international 
experience of its members. The Directors’ diverse range of 
experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience  
of operating in the energy industry but also extensive technical, 
operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
The Company aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its 
succession planning policy. In seeking to achieve this aspiration the 
Company will not appoint an individual to the Board unless they are 
considered the best candidate for the role, whether male or female.
The Corporate Social Responsibilty section on pages 32 to 35 
provides further information on the Group’s approach to diversity. 
Succession Planning
The Committee is aware of its responsibilities in relation to Board 
and senior management succession plans to ensure that unforeseen 
changes are managed effectively and efficiently, without disruption 
to the Group’s strategy or day-to-day operations. The Committee 
has developed a comprehensive succession planning process for 
senior management across the Group. It includes encouragement 
and facilitation of the development of each individual, including 
internal career progression opportunities as they arise.
The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the 
individuals’ currently fulfilling key senior management positions  
in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, 
knowledge and experience.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Simon Heale
Nomination Committee Chairman
21 March 2016
Chairman:
Simon Heale
Senior independent non-executive 
Director: Simon Batey
Non-executive Director:
Dr Karim El Solh
Independent non-executive Directors:
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen
Committee members 62 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 62 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
The Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC present their Annual 
Report and audited financial statements of the Company and the 
Group for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
This Directors’ Report, prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Authority’s 
Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, contains 
certain statutory, regulatory and other information. 
Strategic Report 
Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year 
and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic 
Report required by sections 414A to D of the UK Companies Act 
2006 can be found in the Strategic Report section on pages 8 to 23 
of this document, which forms part of this report by reference.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance Statement is set out on 
pages 40 to 61 and forms part of this report by reference.
Directors
A list of the Directors who served during the period and their 
biographies can be found in the Corporate Governance Report  
on pages 40 to 41. 
Powers of Directors 
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our 
Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’), which are available on our 
website at www.gmsuae.com. The Articles may be amended by a 
special resolution of the members. The Directors may exercise all  
of the Company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable 
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised 
by the members (shareholders).
Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors  
are contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be 
appointed by ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution 
of the Directors. All our Directors must be approved by the Board 
before they stand for re-appointment by shareholders.
Directors wishing to continue to serve will seek re-election annually 
in accordance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary 
resolution of which special notice has been given, in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006. 
Amendments to the Articles of Association 
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special 
resolution passed at a General Meeting of shareholders.
Indemnification of Directors 
The Company has provided indemnification for Directors in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles and the Companies Act 
2006. As far as is permitted by legislation, all Officers of the 
Company are indemnified out of the Company’s own funds against 
any liabilities and associated costs which they could incur in the 
course of their duties for the Company, other than any liability to  
the Company or an associated company.
Compensation for loss of office
The Company does not have agreements with any Director that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s 
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such 
plans to vest on a takeover.
Share capital and control 
Details of the Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 
2015 can be found in note 14 to the consolidated financial 
statements, on page 90. The Company’s share capital comprises 
ordinary shares, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Ordinary shares 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends (when 
declared by the Board or approved by members), receive copies  
of the Company’s Annual Report, attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, appoint proxies and exercise  
voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the 
holding, of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain approval 
prior to any transfers. No ordinary shares carry any special rights 
with regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions 
on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per 
share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are 
held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known 
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally 
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. 
Authority to purchase the Company’s own shares
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in the financial 
year to 31 December 2015 or in the period between the year end  
and the date of this report. 
The Company is due to have its 2016 AGM on 11 May 2016 and the 
Directors will be seeking approval from shareholders, to authorise 
the Company to purchase up to 10% of its existing ordinary share 
capital. This authority would expire at the Company’s 2017 AGM; 
however, it is intended that this authority be renewed each year.  
For more information on this resolution refer to the Notice of AGM 
and explanatory notes on pages 114 to 119. 
Substantial shareholders
The Directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the 
shares of the Company:
Significant direct/indirect interest
As at  
31 December 2015  
Number of shares
As at  
31 December 2015  
% Voting Rights
As at  
10 March 2016 
Number of shares
As at  
10 March 2016 % 
Voting Rights
Green Investment Commercial Investments 174,945,676 50.05 174,945,676 50.05
Aberforth Partners 24,438,775 6.99 25,388,775 7 .26
Horizon Energy 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Al Ain Capital 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Schroder Investment Management 17 ,139,778 4.90 16,275,619 4.66
Ajeej Capital 10,715,430 3.07 10,715,430 3.07
Duet Group 10,568,727 3.02 10,213,745 2.92 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 63
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
63 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Significant agreements 
As at 31 December 2015 the Company was party to the following 
significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate, or have 
the potential to do so, on a change of control of the Company:
Relationship Agreement
The Relationship Agreement dated 14 March 2014 amongst Green 
Investment Commercial Investments LLC (GICI), Ocean Investments 
Trading LLC (Ocean), Horizon Energy LLC (Horizon), Al Ain Capital 
LLC (Al Ain) and the Company provides that it shall terminate on 
there ceasing to be a “Principal Shareholder” holding at least 10%  
of the issued share capital of the Company or shares carrying at 
least 10% of the aggregate voting rights in the Company from time 
to time. In this context a “Principal Shareholder” is any of (a) GICI and 
Ocean together, (b) Horizon and (c) Al Ain. 
The relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint one 
Director to the Board, and for so long as a Principal Shareholder 
Group holds 15% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of  
the Company, the relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled  
to appoint two Directors to the Board. The current appointees are  
H. Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh. The Company has further 
agreed that, subject to the Gulf Capital Shareholders (comprising 
Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC, and Ocean 
Investments Trading LLC, both beneficially owned by GC Equity 
Partners Fund II, L.P.), having the requisite aggregate shareholding 
to appoint a Director as described above: (i) Christopher Foll shall be 
given notice of, be invited to, and have the right to attend meetings 
of the Board as an observer, but shall not be entitled to vote and (ii) 
H. Richard Dallas shall be given notice of, be invited to, and have the 
right to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee as an 
observer, but shall not be entitled to vote.
The Relationship Agreement has not been amended since adoption 
and is in compliance with the Listing Rules. 
Initial Supplemental Purchase Undertaking
The Group refinanced its debt with a syndicate of banks coordinated 
by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) during the year,  
further details of the refinancing are provided in note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements on pages 91 to 92. The initial 
supplemental purchase undertaking made on 29 November 2015 by 
Gulf Marine Middle East FZE (GMME), a member of the Group, to and 
for the benefit of ADCB provides that, in the event of a person or 
persons acting in concert acquiring control of the Company, ADCB 
shall be entitled to serve a notice on GMME exercising its option to 
sell to GMME assets currently leased by GMME from ADCB under 
related finance lease arrangements. If ADCB serves such a notice 
following a change of control of the Company, GMME is obliged to 
purchase the leased assets in their then current condition on an  
“as is where is” basis at a price determined by a detailed formula  
set out in the undertaking.
Share Incentive Schemes
All of the Company’s share-based employee incentive plans detailed 
in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 49 to 60 
contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company. 
Vesting of outstanding awards and options on a change of control 
would normally be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
who would take into account the satisfaction of any applicable 
performance conditions at that time and the expired duration of  
the relevant performance period.
Executive Service Contracts 
The service contracts for the Company’s executive Directors and 
senior management include provisions applicable to a change of 
control in the Company. Further details of these service contracts 
are described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Operational Contracts 
The Group is party to a limited number of operational arrangements 
that have the potential to be terminated or altered on a change of 
control of the Company, but these are not considered to be 
individually significant to the business of the Group as a whole.
Risk regarding the use of financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies 
including the use of financial instruments are set out in note 35 to 
the consolidated financial statements on pages 98 to 99. 
Post balance sheet events
The following events occurred after the balance sheet date:
On 16 March 2016 the Group completed the transaction to purchase 
the leased vessel Pepper for US$ 51.0 million. The transaction was 
financed by available cash and a drawdown from the Group’s 
working capital facility of US$ 25.0 million.
Likely future developments 
Information in respect of likely future developments in the business 
of the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 
23 and forms part of this report by reference. 
Research and development
The Group does not undertake any research and development 
activities.
Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year (2014: nil).
The existence of branches outside the UK
The Group has branches in the Netherlands and Qatar. 
Employees and policies 
The Group operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat 
individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, 
ethnic origin or disability or on any other basis. Applications for 
employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees  
are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career 
development and promotion.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be 
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person. Where 
existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy 
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under 
normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career 
development and promotion opportunities to disabled employees 
wherever appropriate.
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information 
about the Group and keeping them up to date on financial, economic 
and other factors which affect the Group has been continued 
through internal media methods. Employees have also been 
encouraged to present their suggestions and views on the Group’s 
performance. Regular meetings are held between local management 
and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
Health and safety
Information on health and safety is provided on pages 13, 19, 32 and 
35 and forms part of this report by reference.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information on the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is set out in 
the Corporate Social Responsibilty section on pages 32 to 35 and 
forms part of this report by reference. 64 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 64 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Dividends
The policy recommended for the 2015 year is to pay a dividend 
based on 10% of the Company’s consolidated post-tax adjusted 
profit from its ongoing business. The Board may decide to revise 
this policy if deemed appropriate.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.20 pence (1.74 cents)  
per share in respect of the 2015 financial year. Shareholders will  
be asked to approve the dividend at the AGM on 11 May 2016, for 
payment on 16 May 2016 to ordinary shareholders whose names  
are on the register on 15 April 2016. 
Going concern 
The Group is expected to continue to generate positive operating 
cash flows on its own account for the foreseeable future and has in 
place a committed capex loan facility of US$ 175.0 million, of which 
US$ 175.0 million remained undrawn as at 21 March 2016. The Group 
also has access to a committed working capital facility of US$ 50.0 
million, of which only US$ 25.0 million has been drawn to date.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, 
and after reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a period of not less 
than 12 months from the date of approval of the Annual Report,  
the Group’s Directors have a reasonable expectation that, taking 
into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
the Group will be able to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they have adopted the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
More information on the going concern status of the Group can be 
found in the going concern section of note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 79. Details of the Group’s objectives 
and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposure to 
credit and liquidity risk can be found in note 35 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 98 to 99. The principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 21 to 23. 
Information on the Group’s longer-term viability is provided within 
the risk management section on pages 20 to 23.
Statement on disclosure to the external auditor
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information, 
which would be needed by the Company’s external auditor in 
connection with preparing its audit report (which appears on pages 
68 to 71) of which the external auditor is not aware; and each 
Director, in accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 
2006, has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken  
as a Director to make himself aware of any such information and  
to ensure that the external auditor is aware of such information.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP, the Group’s auditors, have indicated their willingness  
to continue in office and in accordance with Section 489 of the Act,  
a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to the 2016 AGM.
By order of the Board
John Brown
Company Secretary 
21 March 2016
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015 65
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
65 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), 
including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in 
the UK and Republic of Ireland”. Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and  
of the profit or loss of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the  
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the  
company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing  
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
• so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information, 
(including known or suspected non-compliance with laws or 
regulations), which would be needed by the company’s external 
auditor in connection with preparing its audit report (which 
appears on pages 68 to 71), of which the external auditor is not 
aware; and each Director, in accordance with section 418(2) of  
the Companies Act 2006, has taken all reasonable steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any 
such information and to ensure that the external auditor is aware 
of such information;
• all transactions have been recorded and are reflected in the 
financial statements;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal  
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 21 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by:
Duncan Anderson   John Brown
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
21 March 2016   21 March 2016
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 66 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
FINANCIAL ST ATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 72
Company Financial Statements 102 68 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Opinion on financial  
statements of  
Gulf Marine Services plc
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in 
the UK and Republic of Ireland”; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, the 
Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the related Group notes 1 to 39 and the related 
Parent Company notes 1 to 12. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice), including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
Going concern and the 
directors’ assessment  
of the principal risks  
that would threaten the  
solvency or liquidity  
of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness  
of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 3 to the Group financial statements and the 
directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the risk management section  
of the strategic report on page 23. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation on page 23 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal  
risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on pages 21 to 23 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed  
or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in note 3 to the Group financial statements about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of  
any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months 
from the date of approval of the financial statements;
 – the director’s explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any 
such material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this 
statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm 
that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in 
those standards.
Our assessment of risks  
of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect  
on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the  
engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we include in our 
report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC 69 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Impairment of the Group’s vessels
Risk description The Group’s vessels are its sole revenue generating assets, with a carrying value of $706.2 million at 31 December 
2015 (2014: $516.7 million) which represents 76% of the Group’s total assets at that date. Their recoverable 
amount is based on an assessment of the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. Estimates of fair 
value less costs to sell take into consideration vessel valuations from an independent ship broker, whilst value in 
use is calculated as the net present value of estimated future cash flows, in each case on a vessel by vessel basis. 
In the current year, there is a risk that recoverable amounts could be adversely impacted by the significant and 
prolonged fall in prevailing oil & gas prices, due to the resultant impact on the Group’s customer base in the oil & 
gas industry. This risk was considered likely to be higher for the Group’s vessels operating in the North Sea, 
where the pressure on oil field service providers to reduce their costs has been particularly intense.
Management has assessed recoverable amount based on the estimated value in use of each vessel, which in 
all cases was higher than fair value less costs to sell, and concluded that no impairments have arisen. The key 
assumptions utilised in these calculations include, on a vessel by vessel basis:
 – forecast utilisation;
 – forecast day rates;
 – inflation; and
 – discount rate.
As referenced in note 4 of the financial statements impairment of the Group’s vessels is considered by 
management as a critical accounting judgement and key source of estimate uncertainty.
Further detail of the Group’s vessels is provided in note 9 to the financial statements. 
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
We challenged the assumptions made by management on a vessel by vessel basis by reference to publicly 
available information, our knowledge of the Group and industry and the Group’s most recent budget.  
This included:
 – understanding the process by which management has derived its value in use estimates;
 – comparing forecast utilisation and day rates to those achieved in prior periods;
 – comparing forecast day rates to signed contracts for contracted periods, and challenging the basis adopted 
for day rates elsewhere in the calculations;
 – using our internal valuation specialists to perform an independent recalculation of the discount rate;
 – performing sensitivity tests, using more conservative assumptions for future day rates to take into 
consideration the current market conditions described above;
 – evaluating the design and implementation of management’s controls to address the risk of impairment of 
the Group’s vessels; and
 – testing the clerical accuracy of the calculations.
Key observations We have concluded that management’s estimates of value in use were reasonable and are therefore satisfied 
that no impairments have arisen. We observed, however, that the level of headroom in the value in use 
estimates has fallen significantly in the last 12 months.
 
Capitalisation of vessel costs
Risk description The Group has a significant new-build programme underway comprising the construction during the year of the 
Shamal, Scirocco, Sharqi and Evolution. Costs of $139.2 million (2014: $136.6 million) have been capitalised in the 
year in respect of assets under the course of construction. There is a risk that costs are not appropriately 
capitalised in accordance with the relevant accounting standards, including the requirement to only capitalise 
overheads and finance charges which are directly attributable to the construction activities.
The construction of the Shamal and Scirocco was completed during 2015 and there is also a risk that the date 
at which management considered these vessels to be ready for use, and hence capitalisation of the majority  
of costs ceases and depreciation commences, was inappropriate. 
Further detail of the costs capitalised on the Group’s vessels is provided in note 9 to the financial statements. 
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the risk
We have tested expenditure incurred during the year on the new-build programme on a sample basis to assess 
whether the related costs qualify for capitalisation under the relevant standards. This has included:
 – tracing direct third party costs to supporting documentation on a sample basis; 
 – testing the appropriate allocation of costs such as overheads and finance charges between amounts 
capitalised and amounts expensed, through understanding the basis and rationale for the split and verifying 
this through review of supporting evidence; 
 – evaluating the design and implementation of management controls to address the risk of inappropriate 
capitalisation of costs; and
 – obtaining supporting evidence for the date at which the Shamal and the Scirocco were considered by 
management to be ready for use and determining whether depreciation commenced and capitalisation  
of finance costs ceased from this date.
Key observations Our testing showed that the costs of the 2015 new build programme have been appropriately capitalised in 
accordance with IFRS and did not identify any instances of inappropriate allocation of overheads and finance 
charges. We also agreed with the date on which both the Shamal and Scirocco were considered ready for use. 70 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Revenue recognition
Risk description Each of the Group’s vessels earns revenues on the basis of a specific contract with the relevant counterparty. 
Each contract will typically specify a day rate, which can vary significantly by vessel and by counterparty,  
as well as a standby rate for when the vessel is available for use but not operational. Certain contracts also 
include amounts payable to the Group in respect of mobilising the vessel at the inception of the contract and/
or demobilising the vessel at the end of the contract term. As disclosed in the accounting policies in note 3 
lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) and fees received for contract-specific 
equipment modifications or upgrades are initially deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the  
term of the contract. The costs of related equipment modifications or upgrades to vessels that are permanent 
in nature are capitalised and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s fixed asset capitalisation policy. 
Demobilisation revenue at the end of the contract is recognised as the services relating to the demobilisation 
are rendered.
Accordingly, in order for revenue to be recorded appropriately, for each vessel the company needs to:
 – accurately record the number of days both on hire and on standby; 
 – apply the correct contractual rates to the number of days in each of these categories; and
 – ensure mobilisation and demobilisation revenue has been appropriately recorded in accordance with the 
terms of the contract and the accounting policies above.
Due to the significant variability in contract terms by vessel and by counterparty, we have identified the 
complete and accurate recording of revenue as a key audit risk.
Further details of revenue arising in the year is provided in note 24 to the financial statements.
How the scope of  
our audit responded  
to the risk
We have obtained a detailed schedule analysing the revenue earned by month and by vessel, which specifies 
both the number of days on hire/on standby and the relevant contractual rate, and agreed this to the general 
ledger. We have:
 – agreed the days on hire/standby to a report from the Group’s operations department, on a sample  
basis to invoice (which state the number of days to which it relates) and to subsequent payment or to 
debtor confirmation replies. Where balances remain unpaid we have understood the rational for non 
payment through discussions with operational management, review of board minutes and correspondence 
with customers;
 – performed an analysis on the number of days on hire/standby, obtaining supporting explanation for any 
gaps and reconciling this to our knowledge of each vessel’s operational performance during the year;
 – agreed the day rate to the underlying contract; 
 – recalculated the revenue figure and agreed this to both invoice and either subsequent cash received or the 
year end debtors schedule; and
 – for mobilisation and demobilisation revenue, determined whether revenue has been recorded in accordance 
with the terms of the contract and the Group’s accounting policy in this area.
We have also evaluated the design and implementation of management controls to address the risk of 
inappropriate revenue recognition.
Key observations Our testing showed that revenue has been recorded in accordance with the terms of the underlying contracts 
and the Group’s accounting policies in this area.
The risks included in our audit report for 2015 are consistent with those as reported in our audit report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 46.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application  
of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the 
economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both 
in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $3.8 million (2014: $4.0 million), which is 5% (2014: 5%) of pre-tax 
profit, and below 1% (2014: 1%) of equity. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 
$76,000 (2014: $80,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when  
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC continued 71 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
An overview of the 
scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide 
controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we 
identified the Group’s business to be a single component, and therefore all operations of the Group were subject  
to a full scope audit. During the course of the audit, senior members of the UK audit team, including the Senior 
Statutory Auditor, supervised the members of the audit team who are based in the United Arab Emirates, and 
visited the United Arab Emirates operations during the interim and completion stages of the audit.
Opinion on other  
matters prescribed  
by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of  
explanations  
received and 
accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ 
remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate  
Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review.
Our duty to read  
other information  
in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the annual report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to  
the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any  
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective 
responsibilities  
of directors and 
auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and 
Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, 
understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review 
team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit  
of the financial 
statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies  
we consider the implications for our report.
David Paterson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London
21 March 2016 72 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Notes
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Revenue 24 219,713 196,554
Cost of sales (87,491) (70,094)
Gross profit 132,222 126,460
General and administrative expenses 7 (20,875) (25,417)
Finance income 26 640 843
Finance expense 25 (34,134) (21,354)
Other (loss)/income (740) 245
Foreign exchange loss, net (32) (408)
Profit for the year before taxation 77,081 80,369
Taxation charge for the year 21 (2,058) (4,744)
Profit for the year 27 75,023 75,625
Other comprehensive income – items that may be reclassified to profit and loss:
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (817) (430)
Total comprehensive income for the year 74,206 75,195
  
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 74,776 75,065
Non-controlling interests 247 560
75,023 75,625
  
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 73,959 74,635
Non-controlling interests 247 560
74,206 75,195
  
Earnings per share 
Basic (cents per share) 8 21.39 22.14
Diluted (cents per share) 8 21.25 22.04
All results are derived from continuing operations in each year.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2015 73 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2015
Notes
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 796,261 614,524 
Intangibles 10 375 750 
Dry docking expenditure 11 6,510 4,177 
Fixed asset prepayments 261 750
Total non-current assets 803,407 620,201
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 12 59,876 49,948 
Cash and cash equivalents 13 60,834 59,532 
Total current assets 120,710 109,480
Total assets 924,117 729,681
  
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital 14 57,929 57,929 
Share premium 14 93,075 93,247 
Restricted reserve 18 272 272 
Group restructuring reserve 15 (49,710) (49,437)
Share option reserve 16 1,409 563 
Capital contribution 17 9,177 9,177 
Translation reserve (637) 180 
Retained earnings 311,760 246,631 
Attributable to the Owners of the Company 423,275 358,562
Non-controlling interests 628 610 
Total equity 423,903 359,172
Non-current liabilities
Bank borrowings 20 347,253 225,741 
Obligations under finance leases 32 39,577 42,473 
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 22 3,391 2,468 
Deferred tax liability 13 5 
Total non-current liabilities 390,234 270,687
  
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 33,883 30,120 
Current tax liability 3,208 4,809 
Bank borrowings 20 17,863 23,415 
Obligations under finance leases 32 55,026 41,478 
Total current liabilities 109,980 99,822
Total liabilities 500,214 370,509
Total equity and liabilities 924,117 729,681
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 March 2016. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
Duncan Anderson   John Brown
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 74 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Statutory
reserve
US$’000
Restricted
reserve
US$’000
Group 
restructuring 
reserve
US$’000
Share 
option 
reserve
US$’000
Capital 
contribution
US$’000
Translation 
reserve
US$’000
Retained
earnings
US$’000
Attributable 
to the 
owners 
of the 
Company
US$’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
US$’000
Total
equity
US$’000
Balance at 
1 January 2014 273 – 136 136 – – 78,527 610 103,228 182,910 1,328 184,238
Total 
comprehensive 
income – – – – – – – (430) 75,065  74,635 560 75,195
Share 
appreciation 
rights charge 
(note 36) – – – – – – 1,400 – – 1,400 – 1,400
Share options 
rights charge 
(note 37) – – – – – 563 – – – 563 – 563
Transfer  
of capital 
contribution  
to retained 
earnings – – – – – – (70,750) – 70,750 – – –
Transfer to 
restricted 
reserve – – (136) 136 – – – – – – – –
Group 
restructuring 
reserve (273) – – – 273 – – – – – – –
Issue of share 
capital 497,100 – – – (497,100) – – – – – – –
Capital 
reduction (447,390) – – – 447,390 – – – – – – –
Issue of share 
capital – IPO 8,219 102,702 – – – – – – – 110,921 – 110,921
Share issue 
cost – (9,455) – – – – – – – (9,455) – (9,455)
Dividends paid 
during the year 
(note 38) – – – – – – – – (2,412) (2,412) (1,278) (3,690)
Balance at 
1 January 2015 57,929  93,247 – 272 (49,437) 563 9,177 180 246,631 358,562 610 359,172
Total 
comprehensive 
income – – – – – – – (817) 74,776  73,959  247  74,206 
Share options 
rights charge 
(note 37) – – – – – 846 – – – 846 – 846
Group 
restructuring 
reserve – – – – (273) – – – – (273) – (273)
Acquisition of 
interest in joint 
venture – – – – – – – – (1,816) (1,816) (229) (2,045)
Share issue 
cost – (172) – – – – – – – (172) – (172)
Dividends paid 
during the year 
(note 38) – – – – – – – – (7,831) (7,831) – (7,831)
Balance at 
31 December 
2015 57,929 93,075 – 272 (49,710) 1,409 9,177 (637) 311,760 423,275 628 423,903
Please refer to note 19 for description of each reserve. 75 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Net cash generated from operating activities (note 29) 124,960 120,353
Investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment (184,403) (136,563)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 768 25
Movement in capital advances 489 (750)
Dry docking expenditure incurred (7,320) (4,656)
Movement in pledged deposits 299 1,679
Movement in guarantee deposits (247) (164)
Interest received 640 843
Net cash used in investing activities (189,774) (139,586)
Financing activities
Bank borrowings received 485,000 –
Proceeds from share issue – IPO – 110,921
Share issue cost paid (172) (9,455)
Repayment of bank borrowings (370,500) (13,000)
Repayment of loans from related parties – (19,504)
Repayment of short term loans to shareholders – (782)
Interest paid (25,832) (22,814)
Payment on obligations under finance lease (4,628) (4,832)
Dividends paid (7,831) (3,455)
Decrease in loans to related parties – 445
Payment of issue cost on borrowings (9,921) (5,656)
Net cash provided by financing activities 66,116 31,868
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,302 12,635
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 59,532 46,897
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 13) 60,834 59,532
Non-cash transactions
Transfer of capital contribution to retained earnings (note 14) – 70,750
Group restructuring reserve recognised (note 15) – (49,437)
Finance lease transaction (note 9) 53,000 – 76 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for year ended 31 December 2015
1. General information
Gulf Marine Services PLC (“GMS” or “the Company”) is a Company which registered in England and Wales on 24 January 2014. The Company 
is a public limited company with operations mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and Europe. The address of the registered office of 
the Company is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The principal activities of GMS and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) are investing in, establishing and managing 
commercial, and industrial projects as well as chartering and operating a fleet of specially designed and built vessels. All information  
in the notes relates to the Group, not the Company unless otherwise stated.
The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in providing self-propelled, self-elevating accommodation vessels which provide the stable 
platform for delivery of a wide range of services throughout the total lifecycle of offshore oil, gas and renewable energy activities and which 
are capable of operations in the Middle East, South East Asia, West Africa and Europe.
2. Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent 
with those followed in the preparation of the Group’s annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, except for the 
adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2015.
New and revised IFRSs applied with no material effect on the consolidated financial statements
The following new and revised IFRSs have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements. The application of these new and 
revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years but may affect the accounting for 
future transactions or arrangements.
New and revised IFRSs Summary of requirements
IFRIC 21 Levies IFRIC 21 provided guidance on when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed by a government, 
both for levies that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets and those where the timing and amount of the levy is certain.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 
2010-2012 covering amendments to 
IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS 8, IFRS 13, IAS 16  
and IAS 38, and IAS 24
IFRS 2 – Amends the definitions of ‘vesting condition’ and ‘market condition’ and adds definitions 
for ‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’.
IFRS 3 – Requires contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability to be 
measured at fair value at each reporting date.
IFRS 8 – Requires disclosure of the judgements made by management in applying the 
aggregation criteria to operating segments, clarify reconciliations of segment assets only 
required if segment assets are reported regularly.
IFRS 13 – Clarify that issuing IFRS 13 and amending IFRS 9 and IAS 39 did not remove the ability 
to measure certain short-term receivables and payables on an undiscounted basis (amends 
basis for conclusions only).
IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarify that the gross amount of property, plant and equipment is adjusted in 
a manner consistent with a revaluation of the carrying amount.
IAS 24 – Clarify how payments to entities providing management services are to be disclosed.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 
2011-2013 covering amendments to 
IFRS 1, IFRS 3, IFRS 13 and IAS 40
IFRS 1 – Clarify which versions of IFRSs can be used on initial adoption (amends basis for 
conclusions only).
IFRS 3 – Clarify that IFRS 3 excludes from its scope the accounting for the formation of a joint 
arrangement in the financial statements of the joint arrangement itself.
IFRS 13 – Clarify the scope of the portfolio exception in paragraph 52.
IAS 40 – Clarify the interrelationship of IFRS 3 and IAS 40 when classifying property as 
investment property or owner-occupied property.
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit 
Plans: Employee Contributions
The amendments clarify the requirements that relate to how contributions from employees or 
third parties that are linked to service should be attributed to periods of service. In addition, it 
permits a practical expedient if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of 
years of service, in that contributions, can, but are not required, to be recognised as a reduction 
in the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation
The amendments provide guidance on the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of 
Assets relating to recoverable amount 
disclosures for non-financial assets
The amendments restrict the requirements to disclose the recoverable amount of an asset  
or CGU to the period in which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed. They also 
expand and clarify the disclosure requirements applicable when an asset or CGU’s recoverable 
amount has been determined on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement, Novation of Derivatives 
and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
The amendments allow the continuation of hedge accounting when a derivative is novated to  
a clearing counterparty and certain conditions are met.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure 
of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 
Separate Financial Statements – 
Guidance on Investment Entities
On 31 October 2012, the IASB published a standard on investment entities, which amends IFRS 
10, IFRS 12, and IAS 27 and introduces the concept of an investment entity in IFRSs. The objective 
of this project is to develop an exemption from the requirement to consolidate subsidiaries for 
eligible investment entities (such as mutual funds, unit trusts, and similar entities), instead 
requiring the use of the fair value to measure those investments. 77 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRSs were in issue but not 
yet effective:
New and revised IFRSs
Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (as revised in 2010) Not earlier than 1 January 2018
Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to introduce a new expected loss impairment model and 
limited changes to the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets 1 January 2018
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants 1 January 2016
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures relating to transition to IFRS 9 (or otherwise 
when IFRS 9 is first applied) When IFRS 9 is first applied
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments When IFRS 9 is first applied
Management anticipates that the adoption of these IFRSs in future periods will have no material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group in the period of initial application, with the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 for which the Management is currently 
in the process of assessing the impact of adoption.
3. Significant accounting policies
The Group’s significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to each of the years presented.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and therefore the financial information presented complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) including International 
Accounting Standards (“IAS”) and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”).
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and share 
based payments that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period. Historical cost is generally based 
on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair 
value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows:
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date; 
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
or indirectly; and 
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of GMS and entities controlled by GMS (its subsidiaries). Management have 
assessed the control which GMS has over its subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which provides that 
an investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 78 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
Details of GMS’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows:
Proportion of  
Ownership Interest
Name Place of Registration 2015 2014 Type of Activity
Gulf Marine Services W.L.L. Abu Dhabi 100% 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt. SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Khawla 181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Helios”
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Atlas”
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kawawa”
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kudeta”
GMS Endurance Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Endurance”
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands 100% 100% General investment and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 75% 60% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
GMS Enterprise Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Enterprise”
GMS Sharqi Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Sharqi”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Scirocco”
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Shamal”
GMS Jersey Holdco. 1 Jersey 100% – General Investment
GMS Jersey Holdco. 2 Jersey 100% – General Investment
GMS FZE United Arab Emirates 100% – Operator of Offshore Barges
GMS Global United Arab Emirates 100% – General Investment
GMS Keloa Invt SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Keloa”
Group restructuring 
On 24 January 2014, the Company was incorporated as the new holding company for the Group. On 5 February 2014, the Company legally 
acquired GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC (the previous parent company of the Group), including the underlying subsidiaries. The 
transaction was effected by way of issuing shares in the Company to the existing shareholders of GMS Global Commercial Investments  
in exchange for their shares already held in GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC. This transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 
Business Combinations, therefore the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method was applied and the consolidated financial 
information of the Group is presented as a continuation of the existing group. The following accounting treatment was applied:
 
• the consolidated assets and liabilities of the previous parent, GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC, were recognised and measured  
at the pre-restructuring carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value; 
• the results for the period from 1 January 2014 to the date of restructuring are those of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC; and 
• the difference between historical carrying amounts of net assets transferred and consideration paid has been recognised as a group 
restructuring reserve (note 15).
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by other 
members of the Group. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interests of non-controlling 
shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of  
the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to 
acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling 
interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results 
in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration 
paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Group. Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are 
accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 79 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
(at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control 
of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Fair value is determined as the amount for which an 
asset could be exchanged, or a liability transferred, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3(2008) are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair 
value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including 
goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in 
relation to the subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings) in the same manner  
as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at 
the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the 
Group’s current and forecast financial position, including the capital commitments described in note 31. Further information on the use of  
the going concern basis has been disclosed in the Directors’ report.
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of  
the Group’s activities. Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to 
the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and is stated net of sales taxes if applicable (such as VAT) and discounts.  
If advances are received from customers for future contractual services, the revenue is deferred until the services are provided.
Charter revenue
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for the 
chartering of vessels in respect of multi-year service contracts. Income from vessels hired on time and voyage charters and from the  
hire of equipment or personnel is accounted for on a time apportionment basis in line with agreed contract terms.
Contract mobilisation/demobilisation revenue
Charter contracts generally provide for payment on a daily rate basis, and revenues are recognised as the work progresses with the  
passage of time. In addition, lump-sum payments are occasionally received at the outset or at the end of a contract for equipment moves  
or modifications. Lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) and fees received for contract-specific equipment 
modifications or upgrades as part of mobilisations are initially deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. 
Lump-sum fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) as part of demobilisations are recognised as the services relating to the 
demobilisation are rendered. 
The costs of contractual equipment modifications or upgrades to vessels that are permanent in nature are capitalised and depreciated  
in accordance with the Group’s fixed asset capitalisation policy. The costs of moving equipment while not under contract are expensed  
as incurred. 
Revenue is recognised for certain reimbursable costs. Each reimbursable item and amount is stipulated in the Group’s contract with the 
customer, and such items and amounts are variable from contract to contract. Reimbursable costs are recognised on the gross basis, as 
both revenues and expenses, because the Group is the primary obligor in the arrangement, has discretion in supplier selection, is involved  
in determining product or service specifications and assumes full credit risk related to the reimbursable costs.
Revenue from messing and accommodation services 
Revenue from these services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for 
providing accommodation and messing services which may include catering and cleaning services.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Maintenance income
Maintenance income relates to maintenance work which is carried out on vessels during times that the vessel is on hire. This is done 
periodically throughout the year and is charged to customers in accordance with agreed contractual daily rates. Maintenance revenue  
is recognised when the work takes place.
Sundry income
Sundry income relates to handling charges which are applied to costs which are paid by the Group and then recharged to the customer.  
The revenue is recognised when the costs are recharged to customers with the handling charge applied. 
Leasing
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic 
basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising 
under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 80 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Leasing continued
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate
benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more 
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower,  
at the present value of the minimum lease payments calculated using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The corresponding liability  
to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to 
qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (see page 81).
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (if any). The cost of 
property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Subsequent expenditure incurred 
on vessels is capitalised where the expenditure gives rise to future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of 
performance of the existing assets.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment less their residual values over their useful lives, using 
the straight-line method. The residual values of vessels and related equipment are determined taking into consideration the expected scrap 
value of the vessel, which is calculated based on the weight and the market rate of steel at the time of asset purchase. If the price per unit of 
steel at the balance sheet date varies significantly from that on date of purchase, the residual value is reassessed to reflect changes in 
market value. The estimated useful lives used for this purpose are:
Vessels 25–35 years
Land, buildings and improvements 5–20 years 
Vessel spares, fittings and other equipment 3–10 years 
Office equipment and fittings 3–5 years 
Motor vehicles 3 years 
Taking into consideration independent professional advice, management considers the principal estimated useful lives of vessels for the 
purpose of calculating depreciation to be 25 to 35 years from the date of construction. However the useful economic life of one vessel, 
Naashi, was extended by 10 years to 45 years as a result of a major upgrade done on the vessel in 2010.
The estimated useful life depends on the type and nature of the vessel. 
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between 
the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
The depreciation charge for the period is allocated between cost of sales and administrative expenses, depending on the usage of the 
respective assets.
Standby equipment
The cost of purchased second hand engines and related refurbishment expenses which are classified as standby equipment are capitalised 
and depreciated from the date that the engine has been made ready for use and installed on the vessel.
Second hand refurbished engines are depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life of the refurbished second hand standby 
equipment or the life of the vessel on which such equipment is installed. 
Repair expenses relating to used engines belonging to the Group are charged to administrative expenses when incurred.
Drydocking
The costs incurred for periodical drydocking or major overhauls of the vessels are identified as a separate inherent component of the 
vessels and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the period to the next anticipated dry-dock being approximately 30 months.
For acquired or newly built vessels, a notional dry dock cost is allocated from the vessel’s cost based on experience of similar vessels, and  
(if material) depreciated on a straight-line basis to the next anticipated drydocking . If a drydocking occurs prior to its anticipated date, any 
remaining capitalised drydocking expenditure is expensed.
Capital work-in-progress
Properties and vessels in the course of construction for production, supply or administrative purposes, are carried at cost, less any recognised 
impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 81 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Intangible assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives The estimated useful lives used for 
this purpose are:
Customer relationships 10 years 
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in 
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at 
the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. The amortisation expense on 
intangibles is included as a part of general and administrative expenses.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses 
arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset, are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill 
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of 
an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable 
and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they 
are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset 
may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of  
the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable  
is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be 
measured reliably.
Employees’ end of service benefits 
In accordance with the applicable Labour Laws of UAE, the Group is required to pay end of service benefits to all qualifying employees  
upon cessation of employment. The only obligation of the Group with respect to end of service benefits is to make the specified lump sum 
payments to employees which become payable when they leave the Group for reasons other than gross misconduct. The amount payable 
is calculated as a multiple of a pre-defined fraction of basic salary based on the number of full years of service.
To meet the requirement of UAE labour laws, a provision is made for the full amount of end of service benefits payable to qualifying 
employees up to the end of the reporting period. The provision relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.  
The provision has not been subject to a full actuarial valuation or discounted as the impact would not be material. 82 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Employees’ end of service benefits continued
The actual payment is made in the year of cessation of employment of a qualifying employee. The payment for end of service benefit is 
made as a lump sum along with the full and final settlement of the employee.
The total expense recognised in profit or loss of loss of US$ 1.2 million (2014: US$ 0.7 million) represents end of service benefit provision 
made to employees in accordance with UAE Labour Laws.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of these financial statements US Dollars (US$) is the functional currency of the Group 
and the presentation currency of the Group.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on monetary items 
receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net 
investment in a foreign operation, and which are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in profit or loss  
on disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial information, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s subsidiaries are expressed in 
US Dollars using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated  
in equity (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate).
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss  
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign 
operation, or loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the accumulated exchange differences  
in respect of that operation attributable to the Group are reclassified to profit or loss. Any exchange differences that have previously been 
attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised, but they are not reclassified to profit or loss.
Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before tax’ as reported in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income because of items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years  
and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax  
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 83 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Long term incentive plans
The fair value of an equity instrument is determined at the grant date based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms  
and conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted. If market prices are not available for share awards, the fair value of the 
equity instruments is estimated using a valuation technique to derive an estimate of what the price of those equity instruments would have 
been at the relevant measurement date in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Equity-settled share based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the instruments, using a binomial model together with 
Monte Carlo simulations as at the grant date, and is expensed over the vesting period. The value of the expense is dependent upon certain 
key assumptions including the expected future volatility of the Group’s share price at the date of grant. The fair value measurement reflects 
all market based vesting conditions. Service and non-market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the number  
of rights that are expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Financial assets
The Group has the following financial assets: cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances 
to suppliers) and amounts due from related parties. These financial assets are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. The classification 
depends on the nature and purpose of the financial asset and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and balances held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
Trade and other receivables and due from related parties
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances to suppliers) and due from related parties that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest 
rate, except for short-term receivables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial assets are considered to be 
impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
• default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
• it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are 
subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include  
the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average  
credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision is determined by 
reference to previous experience of recoverability for receivables in each market in which the Group operates.
Impairment of financial assets
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring 
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the 
carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had 
the impairment not been recognised.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers  
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained 
interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards  
of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received. 84 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss ‘FVTPL ’ or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities and are held at FVTPL. 
Derivatives held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Trade and other payables, bank borrowings, loan from related parties, due to related parties and other liabilities are classified as ‘other 
financial liabilities’. Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis, except for short-term payables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of 
the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to management its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities or financial assets and are  
held at FVTPL. Derivatives held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss 
immediately. All derivatives are carried at their fair values as assets where the fair values are positive and as liabilities where the fair values 
are negative. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more 
than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or 
current liabilities.
Fair values of the derivatives are carried out by independent valuers by reference to quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models  
and recognised pricing models as appropriate. They represent Level 2 financial instruments under the IFRS hierarchy. Changes in the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. Derivative 
financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as held for trading derivatives.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimation, which management have made in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Useful lives and residual values of vessels
Management reviews the residual values and estimated useful lives of its vessels at the end of each annual reporting period in accordance 
with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. The residual values of vessels and related equipment are determined taking into consideration 
the expected scrap value of the vessels, which is calculated based on the weight and the market rate of steel at the time the asset is 
purchased. If the price per unit of steel at the balance sheet date varies significantly from that at the date of purchase, the residual value  
is reassessed to reflect changes in market value.
The estimated useful lives of vessels are between 25-35 years based on management’s best estimate, with the useful life of any given 
vessel dependent on factors such as the operating environment it is expected to work in (including water depth and prevailing weather 
conditions) and the condition of the vessel both at acquisition and at each balance sheet date.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 85 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Management evaluate the carrying amounts of the Group’s vessels and vessels under construction to determine whether there is any 
indication that those vessels have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of vessels is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. As part of the process of assessing fair values less costs  
to sell of the vessel, management obtain vessel valuations from leading, independent and internationally recognised ship brokers on an annual 
basis or when there is an indication that the value of the vessel may be impaired. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.5% that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. The projection of cash flows related to 
vessels is complex and requires the use of various estimates including future day rates, vessel utilisation and discount rates. 
Impairment of accounts receivable
An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.  
The Group reviews the ageing of trade receivables regularly and the need for allowances against doubtful debts is considered for trade 
receivables that are past due based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience of the 
counterparty and an analysis of the counterparty’s current financial position. Any difference between the amounts actually collected  
in future periods and the amounts expected to be impaired will be recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
Further details in this area are provided in note 12.
Critical accounting judgements 
Capitalisation of vessel costs
Management exercises judgement in assessing the extent to which costs incurred in relation to its vessel fleet, including overheads, dry 
dock expenditure and finance charges, meet the criteria for capitalisation under IFRS. Judgement is also required in respect of the new build 
programme, in determining the date at which vessels under construction are ready for use at which point capitalisation of the majority of 
costs ceases and depreciation commences. Further details of expenditure incurred during the year is provided in note 9.
Leases
Management exercises judgements in assessing whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. The judgement as to which 
category applies to a specific lease depends on management’s assessment of whether in substance the risks and rewards of ownership  
of the assets have been transferred to the lessee. In the instances where management estimates that the risks and rewards have been 
transferred, the lease is considered as a finance lease, otherwise it is accounted for as an operating lease. Further details in this area are 
provided in notes 32 and 33.
5. Segment reporting 
Management have identified that the Directors and senior management team are the chief operating decision makers in accordance with 
the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. Segment performance is assessed based upon adjusted gross profit, which represents 
gross profit before depreciation and amortisation and loss on write off of assets. The reportable segments have been identified by 
management based on the size and type of asset in operation.
The operating and reportable segments of the Group are (i) Small Class vessels which includes the Naashi, Kamikaze, Kikuyu, Kawawa, 
Kudeta, Keloa, Kinoa and Pepper vessels (ii) Mid-Size Class vessels which includes the Shamal and Scirocco vessels, (iii) Large Class vessels 
which includes the Endeavour, Endurance and Enterprise vessels, and (iv) Other vessels, which includes two legacy non-SESV vessels and 
one accommodation barge (Khawla) which do not form part of the Small, Mid-Size or Large Class vessels segments.
All of these operating segments earn revenue related to the hiring of vessels and related services including charter hire income, messing 
and accommodation services, personnel hire and hire of equipment. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the 
Group’s accounting policies described in note 3. 
Revenue Adjusted Gross Profit 
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Small Class vessels 114,468  104,424  82,667 75,623 
Mid-Size Class vessels 14,459 – 10,120 –
Large Class vessels 86,390  79,351  64,646  60,493 
Other vessels 4,396 12,779  880  7,574 
Total  219,713 196,554 158,313 143,690 
Less:
Depreciation charged to cost of sales (22,467) (15,973)
Amortisation charged to cost of sales (3,624) (1,257)
Gross profit 132,222 126,460
General and Administrative expenses (20,875) (25,417)
Finance income 640 843
Finance expense (34,134) (21,354)
Other (loss)/income (740) 245
Foreign exchange (32) (408)
Profit before taxation 77,081 80,369 86 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
5. Segment reporting continued 
The total revenue from reportable segments which comprises the Small, Mid-Size and Large Class vessels is US$ 215.32 million  
(2014: US$ 183.77 million). The Other segment does not constitute a reportable segment per IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Segment revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There were no inter-segment sales in 
the periods.
Segment assets and liabilities, including depreciation, amortisation and additions to non-current assets, are not reported to the chief 
operating decision makers on a segmental basis and are therefore not disclosed. 
Information about major customers
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue. During the year, 3 customers (2014: 3) accounted for 
more than 10% of the Group’s revenues. The related revenue figures for these major customers, the identity of which may vary by year, were 
US$ 47.07 million (2014: US$ 53.66 million), US$ 46.93 million (2014: US$ 42.19 million) and US$ 36.43 million (2014: US$ 21.25 million). The revenue 
from these customers is attributable to the Large Class vessels, Mid-Size Class vessels and Small Class vessels reportable segments.
Geographical segments 
Revenue by geographical segment is based on the geographical location of the customer as shown below.
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
United Arab Emirates 129,320 87,417 
Rest of Middle East and North Africa 29,238 38,491
Total – Middle East and North Africa 158,558 125,908
United Kingdom 61,155 70,646
Worldwide Total 219,713 196,554 
6. Presentation of adjusted results 
The following table provides a reconciliation between the Group’s adjusted and statutory financial results: 
Year ended 31 December 2015 Year ended 31 December 2014
Adjusted
results
US$’000
Adjusting
items
US$’000
Statutory
total
US$’000
Adjusted
results
US$’000
Adjusting
items
US$’000
Statutory
total
US$’000
Revenue 219,713  –  219,713 196,554 – 196,554
Cost of sales  
– Operating expenses (61,400) –  (61,400) (52,864) – (52,864)
– Depreciation and amortisation  (26,091) –  (26,091) (17,230) – (17,230)
Gross profit  132,222  –  132,222 126,460 – 126,460
General and administrative
– Depreciation (1,094) –  (1,094) (887) – (887)
– IPO related costs* –  –  – – (5,686) (5,686)
– Other administrative costs (19,781) –  (19,781) (18,844) – (18,844)
Operating profit 111,347  –  111,347 106,729 (5,686) 101,043
Finance income 640  –  640 843 – 843
Finance expense (24,268) –  (24,268) (21,354) – (21,354)
Expensing of refinancing costs** –  (9,866) (9,866) – – –
Other income 305  –  305 245 – 245
Loss on sale of asset (1,045) –  (1,045) – – –
Foreign exchange loss, net (32) –  (32) (408) – (408)
Profit before taxation 86,947  (9,866) 77,081 86,055 (5,686) 80,369
Tax (2,058) –  (2,058) (4,744) – (4,744)
Net profit 84,889  (9,866) 75,023 81,311 (5,686) 75,625
Profit attributable to 
Owners of the Company 84,642  (9,866) 74,776 80,751 (5,686) 75,065
Non-controlling interest 247  –  247 560 – 560
Earnings per share 24.22  (2.83) 21.39 23.81 (1.67) 22.14
Supplementary non-statutory information
Operating profit 111,347 –  111,347 106,729 (5,686) 101,043
Add: Depreciation and amortisation charges 27,185 –  27,185 18,117 – 18,117
EBITDA  138,532  –  138,532 124,846 (5,686) 119,160
* IPO related costs, by their nature, are not considered part of the Group’s underlying business. Further details are given in note 7.
**	 The	write-off	of	unamortised	loan	arrangement	fees	being	non-operational	in	nature	has	been	added	back	to	net	profit	to	arrive	at	Adjusted	Net	Profit	for	the year.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 87 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
7. General and administrative expenses
Transaction costs incurred during 2014 in relation to the completion of the Company’s Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange 
totalled US$ 15.2 million. US$ 5.7 million has been charged to general and administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive 
income, and US$ 9.5 million, attributable to the issue of new equity, has been deducted from the share premium account. The IPO costs  
of US$ 5.7 million includes US$ 1.4 million relating to the remaining 15% of the pre-IPO SARs scheme, further details of which are provided  
in note 36.
8. Earnings per share 
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share being profit for the period attributable  
to owners of the parent (US$’000) 74,776 75,065
Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share (US$’000) (see note 6) 84,642 80,751
Weighted average number of shares (‘000s) 349,528 339,079
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue (‘000s) 351,946 340,523
Basic earnings per share (cents) 21.39 22.14
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 21.25 22.04
Adjusted earnings per share (cents) 24.22 23.81
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (cents) 24.05 23.71
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the period (as disclosed in the 
income statement) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses the earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share (shown 
above) adjusted by adding back written off unamortised loan arrangement fees which have been charged to the income statement in the 
period (US$ 9.9 million). The adjusted earnings per share is presented as the Directors consider it provides an additional indication of the 
underlying performance of the Group.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the period by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, adjusted for the weighted average effect of share options outstanding during 
the period.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses adjusted profit (note 6) attributable to equity shareholders  
of the Company.
The following table shows a reconciliation between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares:
 2015
’000s
2014
’000s
Weighted average basic number of shares in issue 349,528 339,079
Effect of share options under LTIP schemes 2,418 1,444
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue 351,946 340,523
The impact of the share appreciation rights, disclosed in note 36, on dilutive earnings per share is not included in the calculation above as the 
number of shares that could be exercised is dependent on certain future events.
9. Property, plant and equipment
Vessels
US$’000
Capital 
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building 
and 
improvements
US$’000
Vessel 
Spares
US$’000
Others
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2014 517,520 50,710 6,361 8,089 3,706 586,386
Additions 1,675  136,607 – 2,260 176  140,718 
Transfers 96,023  (98,606) 1,039 505 1,039 –
Disposals (50) – – (268) (76)  (394)
Balance at 1 January 2015 615,168  88,711  7,400  10,586  4,845  726,710 
Additions 64,626  139,197  622  861  56  205,362 
Transfers 146,942  (146,472) 771  (1,544) 303 –
Disposals (635) – (74) (14) (1,066) (1,789)
Balance at 31 December 2015 826,101  81,436  8,719  9,889  4,138  930,283  88 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
9. Property, plant and equipment continued
Vessels
US$’000
Capital 
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building and  
improvements
US$’000
Vessel 
Spares
US$’000
Others
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Accumulated depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2014 83,461 – 4,225 5,276 3,070 96,032
Eliminated on disposal of assets (4) –  – (268) (59)  (331)
Depreciation expense 15,057  –  199  815  414  16,485 
Balance at 1 January 2015 98,514 – 4,424 5,823 3,425 112,186
Eliminated on disposal of assets (186) –  (74) (14) (1,076) (1,350)
Depreciation expense  21,621  –  300  663  602  23,186 
Balance at 31 December 2015 119,949 – 4,650 6,472 2,951 134,022
Carrying value
Balance at 31 December 2015 706,152  81,436  4,069  3,417  1,187  796,261 
Balance at 31 December 2014 516,654 88,711 2,976 4,763 1,420 614,524
The carrying amount of vessels held under finance leases is US$ 100.2 million (2014: US$ 91.4 million). During the year the Group purchased 
the formerly leased vessel Keloa for US$ 37.5 million and also entered into a new finance lease for the vessel Pepper with the related 
addition of US$ 53.0 million (note 32).
Depreciation amounting to US$ 22.47 million (2014: US$ 15.97 million) has been allocated to cost of sales. The balance of the depreciation for 
the year is charged to administrative expenses.
Included in additions to the vessels under construction is US$ 5.8 million (2014: US$ 3.4 million) in respect of capitalised borrowing costs.  
The capitalisation rate used to determine this figure was 5.56% (2014: 5.65%) based on specific borrowing rates.
Certain vessels, with a total net book value of US$ 465.2 million (2014: US$ 337.5 million), have been mortgaged as security for the loans 
extended by the Group’s bankers (note 20).
10. Intangible assets
Customer 
relationships
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost 7,337 7,337
Accumulated amortisation
Balance at 1 January 2014 6,212 6,212
Amortisation expense 375 375
Balance at 1 January 2015 6,587 6,587
Amortisation expense 375 375
Balance at 31 December 2015 6,962 6,962
Carrying value 
at 31 December 2015 375 375
at 31 December 2014 750 750
The intangible assets were acquired as part of the acquisition of Gulf Marine Services WLL and Offshore Holding Investment Group (OHI) 
in 2007.	Amortisation	of	intangibles	amounting	to	US$	0.4 million	(2014:	US$	0.4	million)	has	been	allocated	to	general	and	
administrative expenses.
11. Dry docking expenditure
The movement in dry docking expenditure is summarised as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
At 1 January 4,177 778
Expenditure incurred during the year 7,320 4,656 
Disposals (1,363) –
Amortised during the year (3,624) (1,257)
At 31 December 6,510 4,177 
Amortisation for the year has been charged to cost of sales.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 89 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
12 . Trade and other receivables
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Trade receivables 54,700 36,754
Accrued income 503 5,099
Prepayments and deposits* 3,918 6,923
Advances to suppliers 540 644
Other receivables 145 185
Due from related parties (see note 28)  70 343
59,876 49,948
*  Prepayments and deposits include guarantee deposits and pledged deposits of US$ 0.77 million (2014: US$ 0.82 million). Guarantee deposits are paid by the Group for employee work 
visas under UAE labour laws. These deposits become refundable to the Group upon the cancellation of an employee’s work visa. Work visas are not granted indefinitely in the UAE and 
as such these deposits which are currently held by the government in the UAE are refundable to the Group. These work visa deposits amounted to US$ 0.73 million (2014: US$ 0.48 
million). Pledged deposits represent an amount set aside as a guarantee for a loan repayment amounting to US$ 0.04 million (2014: US$ 0.34 million). The Group has no right to access 
or utilise the proceeds set-aside as pledged deposits, other than for repayment of the underlying loan. 
Trade receivables, amounting to US$ 34.0 million (2014: US$ 26.2 million), have been assigned as security against the loans extended by the 
Group’s bankers (note 20).
Trade receivables and other receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised 
cost. Trade and other receivables are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is 
approximately equal to their fair value due to the very short time between inception and maturity (based on level 2 fair value measurements 
as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13). 
The normal credit period granted to customers is 30-45 days (2014: 60 days). Before accepting any new customer the Group assesses  
the potential credit quality of the customer. The Group has policies in place to ensure that credit sales are rendered to customers with an 
appropriate credit history.
The Group reviews the ageing of trade receivables regularly and the need for allowances against doubtful debts is considered for trade 
receivables over 60 days based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience of the 
counterparty and an analysis of the counterparty’s current financial position.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset 
against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables during the year was as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
At 1 January 1,383 105
Provision during the year 614 1,278
Recovery (925) –
Write-off (1,072) –
At 31 December – 1,383 
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$ 9.98 million (2014: US$ 7.59 million) which are  
past due at the reporting date but for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and  
the	amounts	are	still	considered	recoverable.	The	average	age	of	these	receivables	is 72 days	(2014:	71	days).
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from  
the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. Trade receivables are considered past due once they have passed their 
contracted due date.
Several customers account for a significant portion of the total trade receivables balance (see revenue by segment information in  
note 5); however, credit risk is considered to be limited due to historical performance and ongoing assessments of customer credit  
and liquidity positions. 
Ageing of past due but not impaired
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Past due for 30 to 60 days 1,856 4,132 
Past due for 60 to 90 days 2,543 1,456 
Past due for 90 to 120 days 3,722 179 
Past due for more than 120 days 1,858 1,828 
9,979 7,595 
The amounts past due for more than 120 days at the end of 2015 primarily relate to retention amounts withheld by the Saudi Arabian 
customers amounting to US$ 1.86 million in accordance with Saudi Arabian withholding tax regulations. 90 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
13. Cash and cash equivalents 
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Interest bearing
Held in UAE banks 35,922 36,702 
Non-interest bearing 
Held in UAE banks 5,323 5,325 
Held in banks outside UAE 20,357 18,325 
Total cash at bank and in hand 61,602 60,352 
Presented as:
Restricted cash included in trade and other receivables (note 12) 768 820
Cash and cash equivalents 60,834 59,532 
Total 61,602 60,352 
The carrying value of these cash assets is approximately equal to their fair value due to the liquid nature of the asset. These represent 
level 1	fair	value	measurements	as	defined	by	the	fair	value	hierarchy	according	to	IFRS	13.
14 . Share capital
The Company was incorporated on 24 January 2014 with a share capital of 300 million shares at a par value of £1 each. On 5 February 2014, 
as part of a Group restructuring, the Company undertook a capital reduction by solvency statement, in accordance with s643 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Accordingly, the nominal value of the authorised and issued ordinary shares was reduced from £1 to 10p. 
On 19 March 2014, the Company completed its initial public offering (IPO) on the London Stock Exchange. A total of 49,527,804 shares with  
a par value of 10 pence per share were issued at a price of 135 pence (US$ 2.24) per share. 
The movement in issued share capital and share premium is provided below. 
The share capital of Gulf Marine Services PLC as at 31 December 2015 was as follows:
Number 
of ordinary 
shares
’000s
Ordinary 
shares
 US$’000
Total 
US$’000
Authorised Share Capital 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued and fully paid 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued share capital and share premium movement for the year ended 31 December 2015:
Number  
of ordinary 
shares
’000s
Ordinary 
shares
US$’000
Share 
premium 
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
At 1 January 2015 349,528 57,929 93,247 151,176
Share issue costs – – (172) (172)
At 31 December 2015 349,528 57,929 93,075 151,004
15. Group restructuring reserve 
The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used for the group 
restructuring. Under this method, the Group is treated as a continuation of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC (the predecessor 
parent company) and its subsidiaries. At the date the Company became the new parent company of the Group via a share-for-share 
exchange, the difference between the share capital of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC and the Company, amounting to  
US$ 49.71 million, was recorded in the books of Gulf Marine Services PLC as a group restructuring reserve. This reserve is non-distributable.
16. Share option reserve
Share option reserve of US$ 1.4 million (2014: US$ 0.56 million) relates to awards granted to employees under the long-term incentive plan 
(note 37). The charge is included in general and administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 91 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
1 7 .  Capital contribution 
As part of the Group restructuring which took place in 2014 (note 3) the pre-IPO Shareholders resolved to transfer a capital contribution 
balance of US$ 70.75 million to retained earnings.
The movement in capital contribution reserve is as follows:
2015
US$’000
Balance as on 1 January 2015
Share appreciation rights 9,177
Movement during the period
Provision for Share appreciation rights –
At 31 December 2015 9,177
2014
US$’000
Balance as on 1 January 2014
Capital contribution from a Shareholder
(i)
70,750
Share appreciation rights
(ii)
7,777
78,527
Movement during the period
Transfer to Retained Earnings (70,750)
Provision for Share appreciation rights
(ii)
1,400
At 31 December 2014 9,177
(i) The capital contribution balance represents the net assets transferred by Bridge Capital L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of Gulf Capital PJSC, to the Company for no consideration. 
This transfer took place on 17 July 2007. Effective 30 June 2014, the shareholders passed a resolution to transfer US$ 70.8 million to retained earnings.
(ii) During 2013 US$ 7.8 million was transferred from share appreciation rights payable to capital contribution as, effective 1 January 2013, the shareholders have assumed the 
obligation to settle the share appreciation rights. This balance is not available for distribution. An additional charge in respect of this scheme of US$ 1.4 million was made in 2014.  
See note 36 for further details.
18. Restricted reserve
Restricted reserve represents the statutory reserve of certain subsidiaries. As required by the UAE Commercial Companies Law, 10% of 
profit for the year is transferred to the statutory reserve until the reserve equals 50% of the share capital. This reserve is not available for 
distribution. No amounts were transferred to this reserve during any of the years shown.
19. Reserves
The Group’s Statement of Changes in Equity is disclosed as a part of primary statements on pages 72 to 75. Below is a description of the 
nature and purpose of the individual reserves:
• Share capital represents the nominal value of shares issued (note 14).
• Share premium account includes the amounts paid over nominal value in respect of share issued, net of related costs (note 14).
• Restricted reserves include certain reserves maintained by subsidiaries in compliance with the relevant Companies Law applicable 
(note 18).
• Capital Contributions represent certain contributions made by shareholder for nil consideration (note 17).
• Group restructuring reserve arose on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used for group 
restructuring (note 15).
• The Company’s Share option reserve represents the cumulative share-based payment charged to reserves (note 16).
• Foreign currency translation reserves represents differences on foreign currency net investments arising from the re-translation  
of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
• Retained profits include the accumulated realised and certain unrealised gains and losses made by the Company and the Group.
20. Bank borrowings
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Working capital facility – 20,000
Term loans 375,000 240,500
375,000 260,500
Less: Unamortised issue costs (9,884) (11,344)
365,116 249,156 92 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
20. Bank borrowings continued
Bank borrowings are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Non-current portion 347,253 225,741
Current portion 17,863 23,415
365,116 249,156
In December 2015, the bank facility which was restructured in February 2014 with Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (see below), was refinanced 
resulting in amendments to some of the key terms of the loan as follows: 
• The bank facility is repayable in 2021 (previous facility: 2019);
• The term loan facility to fund capital expenditure was increased from US$ 110 million to US$ 175 million. The entire loan facility remained 
undrawn during the year and is available for draw down until November 2017;
• The working capital facility was increased to US$ 50 million (previous facility: US$ 40 million);
• The facility remains secured by mortgages over certain Group vessels, with a net book value at year end of US$ 465.2 million 
(2014: US$ 337.5	million).
Outstanding amount
Current
US$’000
Non-
current
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Unused 
facility
US$’000 Security Maturity
31 December 2015:
Term loan 18,750 356,250 375,000 – Secured November 2021
Working capital facility – – – 50,000 Secured November 2021
Capex facility – – – 175,000 Secured November 2021
Unamortised issue costs (887) (8,997) (9,884) –
17,863 347,253 365,116 225,000
31 December 2014:
Term loan – Syndicated Ijara facility 26,000 214,500 240,500 – Secured September 2019
Working capital facility – 20,000 20,000 20,000 Secured September 2019
Term loan – – – 110,000 Secured September 2019
Unamortised issue costs (2,585) (8,759) (11,344) –
23,415 225,741 249,156 130,000
21. Taxation
Tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The overall effective rate is the aggregate 
of taxes paid in jurisdictions where income is subject to tax (being principally Qatar, the United Kingdom, Netherlands, and Saudi Arabia), 
divided by the Group’s profit.
 2015
 US$’000
 2014
 US$’000
Profit from continuing operations before tax 77,081 80,369
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 15,609 17,279 
Effect of lower tax rates in overseas jurisdictions (13,551) (12,535)
Total tax charge 2,058 4,744
Split between:
Adjustment in respect of prior years – 386
Current tax 2,050 4,358 
Deferred tax 8 –
Tax charge per financial statements 2,058 4,744 
Effective tax rate on continuing operations 3% 6%
During the year tax on profits and withholding taxes of the Group from operations were 10% in Qatar (2014: 10%) and 20.25% in the United 
Kingdom (2014: 21.5%). The Group incurred 5% withholding taxes on revenue (2014: 5%) and 2.5% Zakat tax on profit from operations in 
Saudi Arabia. The withholding tax included in the current tax charge amounted to US$ 1.0 million (2014: US$ 1.3 million). 
The Group expects the overall effective tax rate in the future to vary according to local tax law changes in jurisdictions which incur taxes,  
as well as any changes to the share of the Group profits which arise in tax paying jurisdictions. 
At the balance sheet date, the group has unused tax losses of US$ 6.74 million (2014: US$ 5.07 million) available for offset against future 
profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits 
available. Tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 93 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
22. Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
In accordance with UAE Labour Law the Group is required to provide for end of service benefits for certain employees. The movement in the 
provision for employees’ end of service benefits during the year was as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
At the beginning of the year 2,468 1,910
Provided during the year 1,181 701
Paid during the year (258) (143)
At the end of the year 3,391 2,468 
23. Trade and other payables
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Trade payables 6,912  13,109 
Accrued expenses 22,527  14,984 
Deferred revenue 2,965 –
VAT and other taxes payable 1,311  1,636 
Other payables 168  391 
 33,883 30,120
The	average	credit	period	on	purchases	is 90 days	(2014:	90).	The	Group	has	financial	risk	management	policies	in	place	to	ensure	that	all	
payables are paid within the credit timeframe. No interest is payable on the outstanding balances.
Trade and other payables are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables is approximately 
equal to their fair value due to the short time between inception and maturity. These represent level 2 fair value measurements as defined 
by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
24. Revenue
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue for the year.
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Charter hire 199,999 182,566 
Mobilisation and demobilisation 3,566 1,274 
Messing and accommodation 14,335 12,247 
Maintenance 1,608 332 
Sundry and equipment hire income 205 135 
219,713 196,554 
Further descriptions on the above types of revenue have been provided in note 3.
25. Finance expenses
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Interest on bank borrowings 13,945 12,252 
Interest on finance leases 11,966 10,280 
Interest on loan from related parties – 382 
Write-off of unamortised loan arrangement fees* 9,866 – 
Amortisation of issue costs and commitment fees 4,158 1,816 
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument 27 61
Finance expense 39,962 24,791
Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (5,828) (3,437)
34,134 21,354
* Triggered by the loan refinancing in December 2015 (see note 20).
26. Finance income
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Bank and other income 640 843
640 843 94 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
27 . Profit for the year
The profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Total staff costs (see below) 42,861  34,313 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  23,186  16,485 
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 3,624  1,257 
Amortisation of intangibles 375  375 
Provision for/(reversal of) doubtful debts (311) 1,278 
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument 27 61 
Foreign exchange loss, net 32 408
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,045 38
Operating leases rentals 389 374 
Auditor’s remuneration 368 1,166 
The average number of full time equivalent employees (including executive directors) by geographic area was:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Middle East and Northern Africa 611 499
Rest of the world 81 74
 692 573
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Wages and salaries 40,668  32,879 
Employment taxes  166  170 
End of service benefit (note 22) 1,181  701 
Share based payments (note 37) 846 563 
42,861 34,313
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Group audit fees 224 245
Subsidiary audit fees 39 –
Total audit fees 263 245
Other assurance services including interim review fees 105 153
Corporate finance services – 640
Other services – 128 
Total non-audit fees 105 921
Total fees 368 1,166
Corporate finance services represent services provided as reporting accountants during the Company’s listing on the London Stock 
Exchange and form part of the listing costs described in note 7.
For further information on the Group’s policy in respect of Auditor’s remuneration see page 47 of the Report of the Audit and 
Risk Committee.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 95 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
28. Related party transactions
Related parties comprise the Group’s major shareholders, Directors and entities related to them, companies under common ownership  
and/or common management and control, their partners and key management personnel. Pricing policies and terms of related party 
transactions are approved by the Group’s Board.
Balances and transactions between and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note.
T rading transactions
The following balances were outstanding at the end of the reporting period:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Amounts owed by related parties (see note 12):
Partner in relation to Saudi Operations – 273
Shareholders 70 70
70 343
Term loans due to Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (included in borrowings note 20) 80,000 80,000
Bank balances deposited with Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank 1,533 26,479
Key management personnel:
In 2014, as part of the IPO, the Directors of the Company acquired 616,415 shares in the Company at the IPO strike price of 135 pence  
(US$ 2.24) per share for a total amount of US$ 1.38 million. During the year, one of the Directors purchased 290 shares at the price of  
99 pence (US$ 1.64) per share for a total amount of US$ 0.48 thousand. As at 31 December 2015, there were 616,705 total number of  
shares held by Directors.
Certain members of key management personnel received share awards during 2014 with an associated fair value of US$ 19.48 million,  
under the terms of the Group’s share appreciation rights (“SARs”) scheme set up prior to the IPO. On 1 January 2013, the obligation under 
the scheme, of which 85% had vested at 31 December 2013, were assumed by the pre-IPO shareholders of the Company and were settled  
by them during the current period as cash of US$ 9.74 million and via the award of 4,348,475 shares at the IPO strike price of 135p per share. 
There is an additional 15% SARs award which will become due at the earlier of a substantial exit of the pre-IPO shareholders and an agreed 
lock up period, and is dependent on achieving an expected market rate of return. In 2014 a full provision of US$ 1.4 million was made in 
respect of the remaining 15% of unvested SAR.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Interest expense on loans from related parties 398  382
Related parties
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are outlined in note 3. The related parties comprising of the Group’s major shareholders are 
outlined below.
Major shareholders Ownership interest 
Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC 50.05%
Horizon Energy LLC 6.05%
Al Ain Capital LLC (formerly Al Bateen Investment Company LLC) 6.05%
Partner in relation to Saudi Operations Relationship
Abdulla Fouad Energy Services Company Minority shareholder in GMS Saudi Arabia Ltd.
Other related parties Relationship
Gulf Capital PJSC (Gulf Capital) 100% shareholding in Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC.
Advises funds that hold shares in the Group. 
GC Equity Partners Fund 
II, L.P. (“GC Equity Partners II”)
An institutional fund sponsored and managed by Gulf Capital.  
The ultimate controlling party of Gulf Capital.
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank 8.16% Shareholding in Gulf Capital. 96 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
28. Related party transactions continued
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel during the year were as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Short-term benefits 2,962 3,073
End of service benefits 129 128
Share based payments (LTIPs)
1
370 323
Dividends paid 4 4
3,465 3,528
1. In addition to the LTIP charge, there was a non-recurring charge in 2014 in relation to the SARS scheme, of which US$ 1.4 million related to key management personnel.
Compensation of key management personnel represents the charge to the income statement in respect of the remuneration of the 
executive and non executive Directors and certain members of the senior management team.
29. Net cash flow from operating activities
2015 
US$’000
2014 
US$’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year before taxation 77,081 80,369
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23,186 16,485
Amortisation of intangibles 375 375
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 3,624 1,257
End of service benefit charge 1,181 701
End of service benefits paid (258) (143)
Provision for doubtful debts 614 1,278
Recovery of doubtful debts (925) –
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument 27 61
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,045 38
Share appreciation rights expense – 1,400
Share options rights charge 846 562
Interest income (640) (843)
Interest expense 21,452 19,475
Write-off of unamortised loan arrangement fees 7,743 –
Other income (305) (284)
Amortisation of issue costs 2,516 1,816
Cash flow from operating activities before movement in working capital 137,562 122,547
Increase in trade and other receivables (9,669) (6,665)
Increase in trade and other payables 718 8,087
Cash generated from operations 128,611 123,969
Taxation paid (3,651) (3,616)
Net cash generated from operating activities 124,960 120,353
30. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2015, the bankers of Gulf Marine Services FZE, one of the subsidiaries of the Group, had issued bid bonds, performance 
bonds and labour guarantees amounting to US$ 0.77 million (2014: US$ 0.82 million) all of which were counter-indemnified by other 
subsidiaries of the Group.
31. Commitments
Capital commitments
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Contractual capital commitments 32,802 52,793
Capital commitments comprise mainly of capital expenditure, which has been contractually agreed with suppliers for future periods for new 
build vessels or the refurbishment of existing vessels.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 97 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
32. Obligations under finance leases
During the year, the Group entered into a new finance lease for the vessel Pepper 4501 (2014: Keloa 4306 and Kinoa 4307) which was initially 
recorded at fair value at the inception of the lease for US$ 53 million (2014: US$ 50 million each of Keloa 4306 and Kinoa 4307). The lease term  
is five years. During the year the Group purchased outright the Keloa 4306 and terminated the related lease for no material gain or loss. 
 
The Group’s future minimum lease payments under financing leases are as follows:
Minimum lease payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments 
2015 2014 2015 2014
Within one year 63,257 49,228 55,026 41,478
In the second to fifth year 42,578 50,326 39,577 42,473
105,835 99,554 94,603 83,951
Less: future finance charges (11,232) (15,603) – –
94,603 83,951 94,603 83,951
The Group has the option to purchase the vessels at expiry of the lease period. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations is approximately 
equal to their carrying amount. The fair values of the financial lease obligations were determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing 
models based on a discounted cash flow analysis, using appropriate market interest rates. These represent level 3 value measurements as 
defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
33. Obligations under operating leases
Operating lease rental payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties. 
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as expense during the year 389 374
389 374
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Within one year 2,526 374
In the second to fifth year 4,201 374
6,727 748
Operating leases are negotiated for an average term of three and five years for our UAE and UK offices, respectively and accordingly, rental 
costs are fixed for an average term of three and five years. 
34. Non-controlling interests
The movement in non-controlling interests is summarised as follows:
2015 
US$’000
2014 
US$’000
At 1 January 610 1,328
Share of profit for the year 247 560 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – (1,278)
Acquisition of interest in joint venture (229) –
At 31 December 628 610  98 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
35. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables:
– Cash and cash equivalents at amortised cost 60,834 59,532
– Trade receivables and other debtors at amortised cost 56,186 43,201
Total financial assets 117,020 102,733
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost:
– Trade and other payables 29,607 28,484
– Bank borrowings (non-current) 347,253 225,741
– Obligations under a finance lease (non-current) 39,577 42,473
– Bank borrowings (current) 17,863 23,415
– Obligations under a finance lease (current) 55,026 41,478
Total financial liabilities 489,326 361,591
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern while maximising the return on equity. The Group does not 
have a formalised optimal target capital structure or target ratios in connection with its capital risk management objectives. The Group’s 
overall strategy in this regard remains unchanged throughout the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments – credit risk, liquidity risk, cash flow, interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Group.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group, and  
arises principally from the Group’s trade and other receivables and bank balances. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with 
creditworthy counterparties which have been determined based on credit checks and other financial analysis, such that significant revenue 
is generated by dealing with high profile well known customers, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Group attempts to 
control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, limiting transactions with specific non-related counterparties, and continually assessing 
the creditworthiness of such non-related counterparties. Cash balances held with banks are assessed to have low credit risk of default since 
these banks are highly regulated by the central banks of the respective countries.
Concentration of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographic region, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected 
by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentration of credit risk indicates the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance 
to developments affecting a particular industry or geographic location. During the year, vessels were chartered to four Middle East and  
five international oil companies. At 31 December 2015, these nine companies accounted for 96% (2014: 87%) of the outstanding trade 
receivables. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by  
international agencies.
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event 
counterparties failing to perform their obligations generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables and balances 
with banks are not secured by any collateral.
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated in UAE Dirhams, Euros and US Dollars. As the UAE Dirham and the Saudi Riyal is 
pegged to the US Dollar, balances in UAE Dirham and Saudi Riyals are not considered to represent significant currency risk. Transactions in 
other foreign currencies entered into by the Group are short-term in nature and therefore management considers that the currency risk 
associated with these transactions is limited and consequently this risk is typically not hedged, other than in relation to significant foreign 
currency capital expenditure programmes.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 99 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The carrying amounts of the Group’s significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
Liabilities 
31 December
Assets 
31 December
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
UAE Dirhams 2,378 2,925 48,899 24,801
Saudi Riyals 24 28 2,409 5,864
Pound Sterling 292 1,060 11,006 9,021
Euro 331 4,015 2,244 4,182
Singapore Dollar – 20 5 –
Norwegian Krone 20 26 – –
Others 19 39 – –
3,064 8,113 64,563 43,868
At 31 December 2015, if the exchange rate of the currencies other than the UAE Dirham and Saudi Riyal had increased/decreased by 10% 
against the US Dollar, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s profit for the period would have been lower/higher by US$ 1.3 
million (2014: lower/higher by US$ 0.8 million) mainly as a result of foreign exchange loss or gain on translation of Euro and Pound Sterling 
denominated balances.
Interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on its bank borrowings which are subject to floating interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the end  
of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the 
reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk 
internally to key management personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 
31 December 2015 would decrease/increase by US$ 1.8 million (2014: decrease/increase US$: 1.2 million). This is mainly attributable to the 
Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk 
management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. The contractual maturities of the Group’s financial liabilities 
have been determined on the basis of the remaining period at the end of the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The maturity 
profile is monitored by management to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained. The maturity profile of the assets and liabilities at the end of 
the reporting period based on contractual repayment arrangements was as follows:
Interest
rate
1 to 3
months
US$
4 to 12 
months
US$
2 to 5 years
US$
After 5 years
US$
31 December 2015
Non-interest bearing financial assets 80,330  768  –  – 
Interest bearing financial assets 4% 35,922  –  –  – 
116,252 768 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 29,607  –  –  – 
Interest bearing financial liabilities 3-14.7% 5,409  67,480  221,777  165,053 
 35,016  67,480  221,777  165,053 
31 December 2014
Non-interest bearing financial assets 65,211 820 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 4% 36,702 – – –
101,913 820 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 28,484 – – –
Interest bearing financial liabilities 4.1-12% 39,515 25,378 268,214 –
67,999 25,378 268,214 – 
Management believe that the difference between fair value and carrying value is negligible. 100 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
36. Share appreciation rights
Share appreciation rights were granted to key management employees prior to the IPO which vested in instalments over a fixed service 
period upon the achievement of performance conditions by the Group, and which were payable upon an exit event, being defined as an 
employee being a good-leaver, an initial public offering or a sale of the business to a third party. Half of the share appreciation rights had  
a fixed service period and did not require the employee to be employed when an exit event occurred; the balance required the employee  
to be employed at the time that the exit event occurred.
The pre-IPO shareholders entered into an agreement, effective from 1 January 2013, whereby the shareholders agreed to assume the  
share appreciation rights obligation due to key management employees under the scheme. This represented a modification of the scheme, 
effective from the date of agreement, such that from this date it represented an equity settled compensation arrangement for the Group 
and a capital contribution of US$ 7.8 million from the shareholders. There will be no remaining charge to the Group in future periods in 
relation to the 85% of the scheme which has vested.
During the year 2014, a full provision for SARs payable of US$ 1.4 million was made in respect of the remaining 15% of unvested share 
appreciation rights which will vest if certain conditions on exit are met.
No further share appreciation rights were granted in 2014 or 2015.
37. Long term incentive plans
During the prior year, the Group put in place Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs), performance shares and share options which were granted 
to senior management, managers and senior offshore officers. The details of the senior management LTIP are contained in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 60. The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment, certain market vesting 
conditions and in the case of senior management LTIP awards; performance against three-year target EPS compound annual growth rates. 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined, using the Binomial 
Probability Model together with Monte Carlo simulations, at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest. The fair value of each 
award is determined by taking into account the market performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the 
expected price volatility of the underlying share and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award.
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, 
and in the case of the senior management LTIP awards the achievement of EPS growth targets, are taken into account by adjusting the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the 
vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of  
the options granted.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Group’s subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised 
as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
The number of share awards made by the Group during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value 
(‘WAFV’) and weighted average grant price (‘WAGP’). The exercise price of the share awards is nil (2014: nil). No share awards vested or 
lapsed in the year.
2015 2014
Scheme
WAFV
US$
WAGP
US$
Expiry 
date
Number 
of options 
vested 
Number 
of options 
unvested 
Total 
outstanding
Number 
of options 
vested 
Number 
of options 
unvested 
Total 
outstanding
2015 LTIPs – Senior 
Management 1.71 2.00 March 2018 – 1,626,299  1,626,299 – 825,252 825,252
2015 LTIPs – Managers 
and Senior Officers 1.50 2.00 March 2018 – 1,025,725  1,025,725 – 796,637 796,637
Outlined below is a summary of the assumptions which have been used to determine the fair value of the share awards:
LTIP LTIP LTIP
Grant date 25 March 2015 30 June 2014 8 May 2014
Share price £1.31 £1.5500 £1.6175 
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
Expected volatility 34% 46.7% 46.7% 
Risk-free rate 1.008% 1.9945% 1.8836% 
Expected dividend yield 1.5% 1.0% 1.0% 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Market performance condition 37.9% 41.5% 41.1%
The expected Gulf Marine Services PLC share price volatility was determined taking into account the average of the volatility of two 
comparable companies at each of the grant dates.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 101 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The risk free return was determined from similarly dated zero coupon UK government bonds at the time the share awards were granted, 
using historical information taken from the Bank of England’s records.
The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 16.
38. Dividends
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Dividends declared and paid during the year
Interim Dividend for 2014: 0.41 pence per share – 2,412
Final Dividend for 2014: 1.06 pence per share 5,624 –
Interim Dividend for 2015: 0.41 pence per share 2,207 –
7,831 2,412
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 1.2 pence per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM. These financial 
statements do not reflect this final dividend.
39. Events after the reporting period
The following event occurred after the reporting period:
On 16 March 2016, the Group completed the transaction to purchase the leased vessel Pepper for US$ 51.0 million. The transaction was 
funded by available cash and a drawdown from the Group’s working capital facility of US$ 25.0 million.  102 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Notes
As at 
31 December  
2015
US$’000
As at 
31 December  
2014
US$’000
Fixed assets
Investments 5 573,546 517,546
Current assets
Debtors 6 736 57,750
Cash at bank and in hand 8,996 16,619
9,732 74,369
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 7 (1,139) (276)
Net current assets 8,593 74,093
Total assets less current liabilities 582,139 591,639
Net assets 582,139 591,639
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 8 57,929 57,929
Share premium account 8 93,075 93,247
Share option reserve 8 1,409 563
Profit and loss account 8 429,726 439,900
Shareholders’ funds 582,139 591,639
The financial statements of Gulf Marine Services PLC (registered number 08860816) were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 21 March 2016. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Duncan Anderson    John Brown 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
as at 31 December 2015 103 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Called-up 
share 
capital
US$’000
Share 
premium 
account
US$’000
Share option 
reserve
US$’000
Profit and 
loss account
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Balance at beginning of year – – – – –
Issue of new shares upon incorporation 497,100 – – – 497,100
Capital reduction (447,390) – – 447,390 –
Issue of new shares – IPO 8,219 102,702 – – 110,921
Share issue costs – (9,455) – – (9,455)
Share options rights charge – – 563 – 563
Loss for the period – – – (5,078) (5,078)
Interim Dividend declared – – – (2,412) (2,412)
Balance at 31 December 2014 57,929 93,247 563 439,900 591,639
Share issue costs – (172) – – (172)
Share options rights charge – – 846 – 846
Loss for the period – – – (2,343) (2,343)
Dividends declared – – – (7,831) (7,831)
At 31 December 2015 57,929 93,075 1,409 429,726 582,139
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for year ended 31 December 2015 104 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
Notes
Year ended 
31 December 
2015
US$’000
Period ended 
31 December 
2014
US$’000
Net cash flow from operating activities 10 (1,388) (5,078)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary – (19,883)
Net cash outflow from investing activities – (19,883)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of new ordinary shares – 110,921
Transaction costs from issue of ordinary shares (172) (9,455)
Adjustment for changes in working capital:
Increase in intercompany receivables 986 (57,710)
Increase in intercompany payables 782 167
Increase in other receivables – (40)
Increase in other payables – 109
Dividends paid (7,831) (2,412)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (6,235) 41,580
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (7,623) 16,619
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 16,619 –
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 8,996 16,619
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
for year ended 31 December 2015 105 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
1. Corporate information 
Gulf Marine Services PLC is a private limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. On 7 February 2014,  
the Company re-registered as a public limited company. The address of the registered office of the Company is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, 
London EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The Company is the parent company of the Gulf Marine Service Group comprising of Gulf Marine Services PLC and its underlying 
subsidiaries. The consolidated group accounts are publicly available. 
These separate financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC  
(“the Company”) on 21 March 2016.
2. Accounting policies
Currency 
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is United States Dollars. 
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position, are set out in the Directors’ 
Report and Strategic Report.
The Company participates in the Group’s centralised treasury arrangements and so shares banking arrangements with its underlying subsidiaries.
After making enquiries and on the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, the Company’s Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they have 
adopted the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. 
Basis of accounting 
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared under 
the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 
102) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The comparative period results have been restated as a result of adopting FRS 102, however 
there has been no quantitative effect of such restatement.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) to not present the Company 
Income Statement nor the Company Statement of Comprehensive Income. The result for the Company for the year was a loss of 
US$ 2.3 million	(2014:	loss	of	US$	5.1	million).	
We propose to adopt the disclosure exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102 in the company’s annual accounts for the year ending 
31 December 2016 and until further notice and to take advantage of all the applicable disclosure reductions available under that standard.  
If you object to the use of any of these disclosure exemptions, please notify us in writing by 30 April 2016. If we do not receive notification 
from you by this date, we shall assume that you have no objection.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are recognised at deemed cost, which is the previous GAAP carrying value at the 
transition date, less impairment.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (“FVTPL ”) or “other financial liabilities”.
Trade and other payables, loans from related parties and other liabilities are classified as ‘‘other financial liabilities’’. Other financial liabilities, 
are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using  
the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis, except for short-term payables or when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of 
the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for year ended 31 December 2015 106 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Financial assets
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. They are initially measured at fair 
value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit and loss account, which are 
initially measured at fair value. 
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-
maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and 
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as ‘loans  
and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest 
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate method, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest 
would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective 
evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash 
flows of the investment have been affected.
 
Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form an integral part  
of the Company’s cash management and are included as a component of cash at bank and in hand for the purpose of the statement of  
cash flows.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK Corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at  
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s 
taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessment 
periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can  
be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing 
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are 
expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet  
date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Share based payments
The fair value of an equity instrument is determined at the grant date based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms  
and conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted. If market prices are not available for share awards, the fair value of the 
equity instruments is estimated using a valuation technique to derive an estimate of what the price of those equity instruments would have 
been at the relevant measurement date in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Equity-settled share based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the instruments, using a binomial model together with 
Monte Carlo simulations as at the grant date, and is expensed over the vesting period. The value of the expense is dependent upon certain 
key assumptions including the expected future volatility of the Group’s share price at the date of grant. The fair value measurement reflects 
all market based vesting conditions. Service and non-market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the number  
of rights that are expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the 
cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 107 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
3.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimations which management have made in the process of applying the 
Company’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Impairment of accounts receivable
An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. For 
individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis. Amounts which are not individually significant, but which 
are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision is applied according to the length of time past due and based on historical recovery 
rates. Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected to be impaired will be recognised 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Critical accounting judgements 
Recoverability of investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet of the Company at deemed cost less any provision for impairment. 
The Company performs impairment reviews in respect of fixed asset investments whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the 
higher of the asset’s net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount. 
4. Dividends on equity shares
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Dividends declared and paid during the year
Interim Dividend for 2014 – 2,412
Final Dividend for 2014 5,624 –
Interim Dividend for 2015 2,207 –
7,831 2,412
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 1.20 pence ( 1.74 cents) per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM. 
These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend.
5. Fixed asset investments
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Opening balance 517,546 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 516,983
Other non-cash investment 56,000 –
Share options issued to employees of subsidiary entities – 563
573,546 517,546
As part of a Group restructuring in 2015, GMS Jersey Holdco 2 Limited issued two shares to the Company in exchange for the assignment of 
an outstanding intercompany receivable balance due from Gulf Marine Services WLL of US$ 56.0 million. No cash was exchanged during the 
course of this transaction. 108 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
5. Fixed asset investments continued
The Company has investments in the following subsidiaries. 
Proportion of  
Ownership Interest
Name Place of Registration 2015 2014 Type of Activity
Gulf Marine Services W.L.L. Abu Dhabi 100% 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt. SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Khawla 181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Helios”
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Atlas”
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kawawa”
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kudeta”
GMS Endurance Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Endurance”
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands 100% 100% General investment and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 75% 60% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
GMS Enterprise Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Enterprise”
GMS Sharqi Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Sharqi”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Scirocco”
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Shamal”
GMS Jersey Holdco. 1
+
Jersey 100% – General Investment
GMS Jersey Holdco. 2 Jersey 100% – General Investment
GMS FZE United Arab Emirates 100% – Operator of Offshore Barges
GMS Global United Arab Emirates 100% – General Investment
GMS Keloa Invt SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Keloa”
 
+ Held directly by Gulf Marine Services PLC.
6. Debtors amounts falling due within one year
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 724 57,710
Other receivables 12 40
736 57,750
Debtors amounts falling due within one year are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of debtors is approximately 
equal to their fair value due to the very short time between inception and maturity. During the period the company incurred a tax loss of 
US$ 1.67 million upon which no deferred tax asset is recognised.
7. Creditors amounts falling due within one year
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 949 167
Other creditors 190 109
1,139 276
Creditors are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of creditors is approximately equal to their fair value due to the 
short time between inception and maturity.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 109 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
8. Called-up share capital and reserves
The share capital as at 31 December 2015 was as follows:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 349,527,804 shares of 10 pence each 57,929 57,929
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The share premium reserve contains the premium arising on issue of equity shares, net of related costs.
 
The Company’s share option reserve for the period of US$ 1.41 million (2014: US$ 0.56 million) relates to awards granted to employees of  
a subsidiary undertaking under a long-term incentive plan, details of which are provided in note 11. The charge to the Income Statement in 
2015 for the awards was US$ 0.85 million (2014: nil).
The profit and loss account represents cumulative profits or losses net of dividends paid and other adjustments.
Number 
of shares
Ordinary 
shares
US$’000
Share
premium
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Balance as at 1 January 2014 – – – –
Issue of new shares upon incorporation 300,000,000 497,100 – 497,100
Capital reduction – (447,390) – (447,390)
Issue of new shares – IPO 49,527,804 8,219 102,702 110,921
Share issue costs – – (9,455) (9,455)
Balance as at 31 December 2014 349,527,804 57,929 93,247 151,176
Share issue costs – – (172) (172)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 349,527,804 57,929 93,075 151,004
9. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing related party transactions with other wholly owned group companies 
as afforded by paragraph 33.1A of FRS 102. The Company and all companies with whom related party transactions took place in the period 
are wholly owned group companies, the consolidated accounts of which are publicly available.
Remuneration of key management personnel during the year comprised short-term benefits of US$ 920,190 (2014: US$ 743,646).
10. Cash flow statement
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Operating loss (2,343) (5,092)
Adjustment for:
Investment income – 14
Share based payment expense 846 –
Operating cash outflow before movement of working capital (1,497) (5,078)
Decrease in other receivables 28 –
Increase in other payables 81 –
Net cash outflow from operating activities (1,388) (5,078) 110 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
11. Long term incentive plans
During the prior year, the Group put in place Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs), performance shares and share options which were granted 
to senior management, managers and senior offshore officers. The details of the senior management LTIP are contained in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 60. The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment, certain market vesting 
conditions and in the case of senior management LTIP awards; performance against three-year target EPS compound annual growth rates. 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined, using the Binomial 
Probability Model together with Monte Carlo simulations, at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest. The fair value of each 
award is determined by taking into account the market performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the 
expected price volatility of the underlying share and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award. 
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, 
and in the case of the senior management LTIP awards the achievement of EPS growth targets, are taken into account by adjusting the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the 
vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the 
options granted.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Group’s subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised 
as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
The number of share awards made by the Group during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value 
(‘WAFV’) and weighted average grant price (‘WAGP’). The exercise price of the share awards is nil (2014: nil). No share awards vested or 
lapsed in the year.
2015 2014
Scheme
WAFV
US$
WAGP
US$
Expiry 
date
Number 
of 
options 
vested 
Number 
of 
options 
unvested 
Total 
Out-
standing
Number 
of 
options 
vested 
Number 
of 
options 
unvested 
Total 
Out-
standing
2015 LTIPs – Senior 
Management 1.71 2.00 March 2018 – 1,626,299  1,626,299 – 825,252 825,252
2015 LTIPs – Managers and 
Senior Officers 1.50 2.00 March 2018 – 1,025,725  1,025,725 – 796,637 796,637
Outlined below is a summary of the assumptions which have been used to determine the fair value of the share awards:
LTIP LTIP LTIP
Grant date 25 March 2015 30 June 2014 8 May 2014
Share price £1.31 £1.5500 £1.6175 
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
Expected volatility 34% 46.7% 46.7% 
Risk-free rate 1.008% 1.9945% 1.8836% 
Expected dividend yield 1.5% 1.0% 1.0% 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Market performance condition 37.9% 41.5% 41.1%
The expected Gulf Marine Services PLC share price volatility was determined taking into account the average of the volatility of two 
comparable companies at each of the grant dates.
 
The risk free return was determined from similarly dated zero coupon UK government bonds at the time the share awards were granted, 
using historical information taken from the Bank of England’s records. The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 8.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for year ended 31 December 2015 111 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
12. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders.
 
The capital structure of the Company consists of cash and short-term deposits and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, 
comprising issued capital, reserves and loss for the period as disclosed in note 8. 
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the 
accounting policies to the financial statements.
Categories of financial instruments
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand 8,996 16,619
Loans and receivables 736 57,710
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost 1,139 276
All financial liabilities are repayable upon demand. 
The Group’s income, expense, gains and losses in respect of financial instruments are summarised below:
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Interest income and expense
Total interest income for financial assets at amortised cost – 14
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments–credit risk, cash flow and liquidity risk, foreign currency risk 
and interest rate risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Company.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company, and 
arises principally from the Company’s trade and other receivables. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy 
counterparties, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Company attempts to control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, 
limiting transactions with specific non-related counter-parties, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of such non-related counter-
parties. Balances with banks are assessed to have low credit risk of default since these banks are highly regulated by the central banks of 
the respective countries. 
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event counter 
parties failing to perform their obligations generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables are not secured by  
any collateral.
The Company’s principal financial assets are bank balances, and intercompany and other receivables. The Company’s main credit risk is 
primarily attributable to its key intercompany receivables. The Company has no other significant concentration of credit risk. An allowance 
for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence for a reduction in the 
recoverability of the cash flows.
Cash flow and liquidity risk
The Company is not exposed to any significant cash flow or liquidity risk. The Company currently has sufficient cash to fund its activities. 
However, in the event that additional liquidity is required for ongoing operations and future developments, the Company has access to 
additional funding from other Group entities which it controls. 
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Company’s transactions are in either UAE Dirhams or US Dollars. Transactions in other foreign currencies entered into 
by the Company are short term in nature and therefore management considers that the currency risk associated with these transactions is 
limited and consequently this risk is not hedged.
Interest rate risk management
The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities are interest-free; accordingly the Company is not subject to any interest rate risk.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Company’s management considers that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts. 112 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notice of AGM 114
Glossary 120
Corporate Information IBC 113 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 114 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
NOTICE OF AGM
Important information: This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you are in any doubt as to any  
aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a 
stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other independent professional adviser immediately. If you have sold or otherwise transferred 
all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the 
person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
NOTICE OF AGM
Notice is hereby given that the second annual general meeting (the “AGM”) of Gulf Marine Services PLC (the “Company”) will be held on 
Wednesday 11 May 2016 at 11.30am (UK time) at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom to transact the business 
set out in the resolutions below. 
Resolutions 1 to 13 (inclusive) will be proposed as ordinary resolutions; this means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more 
than half of the votes cast must be in favour. Resolutions 14 to 16 (inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions; this means that for  
each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of a poll. The Company believes this will result in a more accurate reflection of the views of 
shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of all shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting  
but who have appointed a proxy for the meeting. Shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held when voting on a poll.
Ordinary Resolutions
Report and Accounts
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 together with the Directors’ reports and the 
auditor’s report on those accounts (the “2015 Annual Report and Accounts”). 
Final Dividend
2. To declare a final dividend of 1.20 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2015, to be paid to ordinary shareholders  
on the register of members at 6.00pm BST on 15 April 2016.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
3. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 50 to 60 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Re-Election of Directors
4. To re-elect Simon Heale as a director.
5. To re-elect Duncan Anderson as a director.
6. To re-elect Simon Batey as a director.
7. To re-elect Richard Dallas as a director.
8. To re-elect Richard Anderson as a director. 
9. To re-elect Dr Karim El Solh as a director.
10. To re-elect Mike Straughen as a director.
Re-appointment of Auditor
11. To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Auditor’s Remuneration
12. To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf of the board of directors.
Authority to allot ordinary shares
13. To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), to 
exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, 
shares of the Company: 
a. up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £11,650,927; and 
b. comprising equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) of the Act) of the Company up to a further nominal amount of £11,650,927  
in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue. 
 These authorities shall apply in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to section 551 of the Act and expire on the date of  
the next AGM or on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, but in each case the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities 
under any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
 For the purposes of this resolution, “rights issue” means an offer to: 
• ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
• people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise 
consider necessary, 
 to subscribe further securities, subject in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary 
or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the 
laws of, any territory. 115 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Special Resolutions
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights
14. Subject to the passing of resolution 13, to empower the directors generally in accordance with section 570 of the Act to allot equity 
securities (as defined in section 560(1) of the Act) for cash: 
a. pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (a) of resolution 13 or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities 
by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act in each case:
i. in connection with a pre-emptive offer; and
ii. otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,747,639; and 
b. pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (b) of resolution 13 in connection with a rights issue, as if section 561(1) of the Act did 
not apply to any such allotment.
 This power shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company 
may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry  
and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had  
not expired.
 For the purposes of this resolution:
i. “rights issue” has the same meaning as in resolution 13;
ii. “pre-emptive offer” means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to (a) holders (other 
than the Company) on the register on a record date fixed by the directors of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective 
holdings and (b) other persons so entitled by virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity securities held by them, but subject 
in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory;
iii. references to an allotment of equity securities shall include a sale of treasury shares; and
iv. the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, 
shares of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
Purchase of own shares
15. To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally for the purpose of section 701 of the Act to make market purchases (within  
the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, provided that:
a. the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 34,952,780;
b. the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence; and
c. the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of:
i. 105% of the average closing price of an ordinary share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days prior to the day on which the purchase is made; and 
ii. an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent 
bid for an ordinary share as stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Commission Regulation (EC) No. 2273/2003 (relating to buy-back 
programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments). 
 This authority shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier, save that the 
Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly  
after the expiry of such authority. 
Notice of general meetings, other than AGMs
16. That a general meeting, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
John Brown 
Company Secretary
21 March 2016
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH 116 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS 
Resolution 1 – T o receive the Report and Accounts
The directors are required to present the Company’s audited accounts, Directors’ reports and auditor’s report to the meeting. These are 
contained in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 2 – T o declare a final dividend 
The board of directors of the Company (the “Board”) proposes a final dividend of 1.20 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 
2015. If approved, the recommended final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2016 to all ordinary shareholders on the register of members  
at 6.00pm on 15 April 2016. The shares will be marked ex-dividend on 14 April 2016.
Resolution 3 – T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
This resolution deals with the remuneration paid to the directors during the year under review. Shareholders are invited to vote on the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, which appears on pages 50 to 60 in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts (excluding the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy). Resolution 3 is an advisory vote.
The Company does not intend at this AGM to move a resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which appears on pages 50 
to 60 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the previous AGM of 
the Company held on 6 May 2015. The Company will comply with its legal obligation to prepare and submit for shareholder vote a Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy no less frequently than every three years. 
Resolutions 4 to 10 – Re-election of Directors
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and consistent with relevant institutional voting guidance, all directors of the 
Company wishing to continue their appointments will seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM. 
No independent non-executive director seeking re-election at the AGM has any existing or previous relationship with the Company, nor with 
any controlling shareholder of the Company or any associate of a controlling shareholder of the Company within the meaning of Listing Rule 
13.8.17R(1). In considering the independence of the non-executive directors, the Board has taken into account the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board continues to consider Simon Batey, Richard Anderson and Mike Straughen to be independent non-executive directors in 
accordance with provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
In accordance with the Listing Rules, Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh are classed as representatives of a “controlling shareholder” of Gulf 
Marine Services PLC and not considered to be independent non-executive directors. The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement 
with its “controlling shareholders” effective 14 March 2014 in accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.2AR(2)(a), which serves to ensure that the 
controlling shareholders and their representatives (including Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh) comply with the independence provisions 
outlined in Listing Rule 6.1.4DR. 
The Listing Rules also require that independent non-executive directors be elected by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders 
in addition to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders in the Company. Therefore, the resolutions for the election of the independent 
non-executive directors (resolutions 6, 8 and 10) will be taken on a poll and the votes cast by independent shareholders and all shareholders 
will be calculated separately. Such resolutions will be passed only if a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders are in favour,  
in addition to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders being in favour.
Full biographies of all the directors are set out in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and are also available for viewing on the Company’s 
website (http://www.gmsuae.com). Following a formal Board evaluation process and recommendation from the Nomination Committee,  
the Board is satisfied that each of the directors continues to be effective and demonstrates a commitment to the role and that each of the 
directors continues to be able to dedicate sufficient time to their duties. The Board believes that its composition continues to include an 
appropriate balance of skills and provides effective leadership for the Company. 
Christopher Foll, an alternate director for Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh, will continue that appointment beyond the AGM without 
seeking re-election by shareholders. If neither of the resolutions to re-elect Richard Dallas and Dr Karin El Solh are passed by shareholders 
at the AGM, the alternate directorship will immediately cease. 
Resolution 11 – T o re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting  
at which accounts are laid before the Company
At each meeting at which the Company’s accounts are presented to its members, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve 
until the next such meeting. The Board, on the recommendation of its Audit and Risk Committee, recommends the re-appointment of 
Deloitte LLP as auditor.
Resolution 12 – T o authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP
This resolution gives authority to the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
Resolution 13 – T o authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares
The authority in paragraph (a) of this resolution, if passed, would provide the directors with a general authority to allot new shares and 
grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal amount of £11,650,927, which is equal to approximately 
33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 21 March 2016, being the last practicable date before the publication of this Notice. 
Paragraph (b) under resolution 13 will grant the directors additional authority to allot 116,509,268 new shares and grant rights to subscribe 
for, or convert other securities into, shares in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal amount of, which is equal to 
approximately 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 21 March 2016. 
NOTICE OF AGM continued 117 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
When taken together, the authorities proposed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this resolution extend (before any reduction) to approximately 
two thirds of the current issued share capital of the Company as at 21 March 2016, being the last practicable date before the publication of 
this Notice. 
The resolution would give the Board the maximum flexibility permitted by investor guidelines to respond to market developments. There 
are no current plans to allot shares except in connection with the Company’s employee share schemes but the Board will keep the matter 
under review. 
This authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors  
to seek the annual renewal of each aforementioned authority.
Resolution 14 – T o authorise the directors to disapply pre-emption rights
This resolution would, if passed, allow the directors to allot shares or sell treasury shares for cash (other than in connection with an 
employee share scheme), without having to offer such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their own holdings (known as 
pre-emption rights).
The purpose of paragraph (a) of resolution 14 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 
(a) of resolution 14, or sell treasury shares, for cash (I) in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or (II) otherwise up to a nominal 
value of £1,747,639, equivalent to approximately 5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 21 March 2016, in each 
case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of paragraph (b) of resolution 14 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by  
paragraph (b) of resolution 14, or sell treasury shares, for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to 
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings. This is consistent with current corporate governance guidelines applicable  
to UK listed companies.
It is the directors’ intention not to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis (other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer) in 
excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued share capital of the Company over a three year rolling period, without prior 
consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2017 or the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors  
to seek to renew this authority every year.
Resolution 15 – T o authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares
This resolution would, if passed, authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 34,952,780 of its own ordinary shares, 
representing just under 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 21 March 2016. The resolution specifies the minimum and maximum 
prices at which the ordinary shares may be bought under this authority. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors to seek to renew this authority 
every year.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority granted by this resolution, but the authority provides the flexibility to 
allow them to do so in future. The directors would not exercise the authority unless they believed that the expected effect would promote 
the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole. Any shares purchased would be effected by a purchase in the 
market and may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the Company’s 
obligations under its employee share schemes. The Company currently has no shares held in treasury.
As at 21 March 2016, the total number of options to subscribe for shares in the Company was 3,654,975 (approximately 1.0% of the 
Company’s issued share capital and approximately 1.2% of the Company’s issued share capital if the full authority proposed by resolution 15 
was used and the shares purchased were cancelled).
Resolution 16 – Notice of general meetings, other than AGMs
Under the Act, the notice period required for all general meetings of the Company is 21 days. An AGM is required by law to be held on at  
least 21 clear days’ notice but shareholders can approve a shorter notice period for other general meetings.
This resolution would, if passed, allow the Company flexibility to call general meetings, other than AGMs, on not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.  
A resolution in identical terms was passed at the previous AGM of the Company, held on 6 May 2015. 
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole 
and unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them. 118 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
IMPORTANT NOTES
The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM or to appoint someone else 
to vote on your behalf.
1. To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they 
may cast), shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 9 May 2016 (or, in the event of any 
adjournment, 6.00pm on the date which is 48 hours, excluding non-working days, before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to 
the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at 
the meeting. There are no other procedures or requirements for entitled shareholders to comply with in order to attend and vote at the 
AGM. In alignment with best practice for UK listed companies, it is the current intention that each of the resolutions to be put to the AGM 
will be voted on by way of a poll and not by show of hands. The Company believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders’ 
voting intentions because shareholder votes are counted according to the number of ordinary shares held and all votes tendered are 
taken into account. 
2. The doors will open at 10.30am and you may wish to arrive by 11.00am to enable you to register and take your seat in good time. Light 
refreshments will be provided at the meeting. If you have any special needs or require wheelchair access to the offices of Linklaters LLP 
please contact Molly Stewart by e-mail on gms@bellpottinger.com or telephone +44 203 772 2500 in advance of the meeting. Mobile 
phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras and recording equipment are not allowed in the meeting hall.
3. Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or part of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM. 
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attached to a different ordinary share or ordinary shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.  
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice. If you do not have  
a form of proxy and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Company’s registrar Equiniti 
(the “Registrar”), on 0371 384 2030 (or from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7047). Lines are open Monday – Friday, 8.30am – 5.30pm 
(excluding UK public holidays).
4. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the 
most senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company’s 
register of members in respect of the joint holding (the first named being the most senior).
5. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to enjoy 
information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was 
nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a Nominated Person has no  
such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions  
to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
6. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3, 4 and 9 do not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
7. Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the Act have the right to (a) require the Company to give notice of any 
resolution which can properly be, and is to be, moved at the AGM pursuant to section 338 of the Act; and/or (b) include a matter in  
the business to be dealt with at the AGM, pursuant to section 338A of the Act.
8. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution. 
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from 
voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the AGM.
9. To be valid, any form of proxy or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by the Registrar by post or (during normal 
business hours only) by hand at the address shown on the form of proxy or, in the case of shares held through CREST, via the CREST 
system (see note 12 below). For proxy appointments to be valid, they must be received by no later than 11.30am on 9 May 2016. If you 
return more than one proxy appointment, the proxy appointment received last by the Registrar before the latest time for the receipt  
of proxies will take precedence. You are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully. Electronic communication facilities  
are open to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
10. The return of a completed form of proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in note 12 below) will not prevent a shareholder 
attending the AGM and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so.
11. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
AGM (and any adjournment of the AGM) by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available from www.euroclear.com). 
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), 
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
12. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy 
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must contain the 
information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as to be received by 
the issuers’ agent (ID RA19) by 11:30am on 9 May 2016. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to the time (as determined by 
the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST application host) from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by 
enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 
should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
NOTICE OF AGM continued 119 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
13. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, 
therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take  
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure 
that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted 
by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the 
CREST system and timings. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)
(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
14. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers 
as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers relation to the same shares.
15. As at 21 March 2016 (being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this Notice), the Company’s ordinary issued share 
capital consists of 349,527,804 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, the total voting rights 
in the Company as at 21 March 2016 are 349,527,804.
16. Under section 527 of the Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the 
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the 
auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or (ii) any circumstances connected with an auditor  
of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 
section 437 of the Act. The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in 
complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of  
the Act, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the 
website. The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 
527 of the Act to publish on a website.
17. Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such question 
relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in 
the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the 
question be answered.
18. The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any 
business day from 21 March 2016 until the time of the AGM and may also be inspected at the AGM venue (Linklaters LLP,  
One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ), from 10.30 am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM:
a. copies of the directors’ letters of appointment or service contracts;
b. a copy of the articles of association of the Company; and
c. a copy of the directors’ deeds of indemnity.
19. You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice or any related documents (including the form of proxy) to 
communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Company’s website at  
http://www.gmsuae.com. 120 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
ABS American Bureau of Shipping.
ADNOC Abu Dhabi National Oil Company.
Adjusted (net profit/ 
diluted earnings)
After adding back non-operational refinancing costs in 2015 and non-operational IPO costs in 2014.
AED United Arab Emirates Dirham. The currency in United Arab Emirates.
AHTS vessel Anchor Handling Tug Support vessel.
Available days Calculated from a base of 365 days from which any unpaid days spent on mobilisation and 
demobilisation, planned refurbishment or upgrade work and, in the case of a newly constructed SESV, 
delivery time are subtracted. Maintenance days included in our contracts are counted as available days.
Average Daily Operating Costs Average daily costs incurred to operate a vessel. Calculated as cost of sales less non-cash items, 
depreciation, amortisation and impairments divided by 365.
Brownfield project A project involving the upgrade or modification of existing operations.
Capex-led Activities Defined in the oil and gas sector to include greenfield projects, engineering, procurement and 
construction activities, installation and decommissioning and, with respect to EOR activities, water 
injection and gas injection. Typically funded out of our clients’ capital expenditure budgets.
Company (or Group) website www.gmsuae.com
Constant currency basis Results that have been calculated by retranslating the comparative period results using current period 
exchange rates.
Day rate Income received by the Company in respect of each day a vessel is chartered to a client.
DP2 Dynamic positioning system with full redundancy meaning that should one component fail there is a 
backup component that takes over.
Dynamic positioning A computerised positioning system which maintains the vessel position by using its own propellers  
and thrusters.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation, which represents operating profit after 
adding back depreciation, amortisation (and in 2014 non-operational IPO costs).
EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery. Consists of the injection of foreign components (e.g. chemicals) to recover a 
larger proportion of the remaining oil at the final stages of the field life.
GCC Gulf Cooperation Council, the political and economic alliance of six Middle Eastern countries comprising 
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman.
Hotel Services Income received by the Company for the provision of accommodation and meals provided to client 
personnel charged on a per person per day basis.
HSE Health, Safety and Environment.
HSSEQ Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
IOC International Oil Company.
Lump sum Income received by the company at the beginning of a new charter party agreement relating to the 
costs and time taken to prepare the vessel.
MENA Middle East and North Africa.
NOC National Oil Company.
Opex-led Activities Operating expenditure-led activities. Defined in the oil and gas sector to include fabric maintenance, 
well intervention, brownfield upgrade and modification projects and retrofit or upgrade activities with 
respect to EOR activities. Typically funded out of our clients’ operating budgets.
SESV Self-Elevated Support Vessel designed to cater to a range of offshore assets and equipment such as 
drilling products and to support inspection, maintenance, repair, diving and construction activities.
Topside Operations  
and Maintenance
Consists of the maintenance, modification and operation of platforms during the production phase  
of the offshore field lifecycle.
TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate is calculated on the injury rate per 200,000 man hours and includes all our 
onshore and offshore personnel and subcontracted personnel. Offshore personnel are monitored over 
a 24-hour period.
UKCS United Kingdom Continental Shelf.
Utilisation The percentage of available days in a relevant period during which an SESV is under contract and in 
respect of which a customer is paying a day rate for the charter of the SESV.
Utilisation rate Actual number of days a vessel is on hire divided by the number of available days in a year.
Well intervention Consists of services (coiled tubine, pumping, workover, subsea landing string and other services) to 
maintain production levels in the primary and secondary phases of oil production.
GLOSSARY This publication was printed with vegetable 
oil-based inks by an FSC -recognised printer 
that holds an ISO 14001 certification.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Joint Corporate Broker
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Joint Corporate Broker
Barclays 
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB
Legal Advisers
Linklaters LLP 
One Silk Street 
London EC2Y 8HQ
Auditors
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
Public Relations Advisers
Bell Pottinger 
Holborn Gate 
330 High Holborn 
London WC1V 7QD
Registrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registered Office
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor 
40 Dukes Place 
London EC3A 7NH 
Head Office
Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
T: +971 (2) 5028888
F: +971 (2) 5553421
E: IR@gmsuae.com 
Board of Directors
Simon Heale
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
Simon Batey
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Richard Anderson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mike Straughen
Independent Non-Executive Director
Richard Dallas
Non-Executive Director 
Dr Karim El Solh
Non-Executive Director Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
T: +971 (2) 5028888
F: +971 (2) 5553421
E: IR@gmsuae.com
www.gmsuae.com
GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC  Annual Report 2015
