 Building  
on success
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Who We Are
Halma employs over 5,400 people in nearly 
50 subsidiary businesses based in 23 countries. 
Our companies and products are diverse but 
we have a core focus on safety, health and 
environmental markets.
Through innovation and acquisition, we  
have developed a portfolio of market-leading 
companies within our four sectors:  
Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety, Medical,  
and Environmental & Analysis. 
Our technology is used to save lives, prevent injuries, 
and protect people and assets around the world.  
On energy pipelines, in airports and even 
underground, our products are detecting hazards, 
stopping accidents and actively ensuring safety.
We develop products that secure and protect the 
elements critical to healthy lives. They analyse air for 
pollutants and water for drinking. They make medical 
diagnosis faster, treatments more effective, and even 
give sight back to the blind.
Our business is protecting life and improving  
quality of life for people worldwide.
Contents
Strategic Report 
02 Investment Proposition
03 Chairman’s Statement
04 Business at a Glance
06 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
13 Business Model and Strategy
22 Key Performance Indicators 
26 Risk Management and 
Internal Controls
28  Principal Risks and Uncertainties
32 Process Safety 
34 Infrastructure Safety
36 Medical 
38 Environmental & Analysis
40 Talent
42 Corporate Responsibility
48 Financial Review
Governance 
55 Chairman’s Introduction
56 Board of Directors 
58 Executive Board
59 Corporate Governance Report
66 Audit Committee Report
70 Nomination Committee Report
72 Remuneration Committee Report
 72 Chairman’s Statement
 7 4 Remuneration Policy
 81 Annual Remuneration Report
91 Other Statutory Information
94 Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements 
95 Independent Auditor’s Report 
99  Consolidated Income Statement
100 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and 
Expenditure
101 Consolidated Balance Sheet
102 Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity
104  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
105 Accounting Policies
1 12 Notes to the Accounts
151 Company Balance Sheet
152 Notes to the Company Accounts
158 Summary 2006 to 2015
160 Halma Directory
164 Shareholder Information  
and Advisers 726.1
676.5
619.2
579.9
518.4
459.1 455.9
398.0
354.6
337.3
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
45.3
42.2
39.4
36.7
34.3
32.0
29.7
28.2
26.8
25.3
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
21.2
20.7 20.8 20.8
20.2
18.8
17.3
18.4
18.6
17.7
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
153.6
140.2
128.5
120.5
104.6
86.2
79.1
73.2
66.1
59.6
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Highlights
Continuing operations 2015 2014 Change
Revenue £726.1m £676.5m +7%
Adjusted Profit before Taxation
1
£153.6m £140.2m +10%
Adjusted Earnings per Share
2
31.17p 28.47p +9%
Statutory Profit before Taxation
3
£133.6m £138.7m -4%
Statutory Earnings per Share
3
27.49p 28.14p -2%
Total Dividend per Share
4
11.96p 11.17p +7%
Return on Sales
5
21.2% 20.7%
Return on Total Invested Capital
6
16.3% 16.7%
Net Debt £100.9m £74.5m
Pro-forma information:
1
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items, profit or loss 
on disposal of operations and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the Defined Benefit 
pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only), totalling £20.0m (2014: £1.6m). See note 1 
to the Accounts. 
2
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items, profit or loss 
on disposal of operations, the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the Defined Benefit 
pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only), and the associated tax thereon. See note 2 
to the Accounts.
3
  Statutory profit before taxation and statutory earnings per share were below the prior year because 
of credits arising in 2014 due to revisions to the estimates of contingent consideration payable on 
prior years’ acquisitions and from the closure to future accrual of the Defined Benefit pension 
plans. See notes 1 and 2 to the Accounts.
4
 Total dividend paid and proposed per share.
5
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
1
 profit before taxation from continuing operations expressed 
as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
6
  Organic growth rates and Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) are non-GAAP performance 
measures used by management. ROTIC is now calculated using the average Total Invested 
Capital. The prior year has been restated. See note 3 to the Accounts.
Revenue* (£m) 
£726. 1m +7%
Dividend paid and proposed
1 1.96p +7% per share
Return on sales (%)
21.2% 
Financial highlights
Adjusted profit before taxation* (£m)
£153.6m +10%
* Continuing and discontinued. * Continuing and discontinued.
(£m)
1 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  T otal Shareholder Return (three years)
50%
75%
100%
125%
150%
175%
200%
Mar-2015 Mar-2012 Mar-2013 Mar-2014
■ Halma
■ FTSE 250
■ FTSE 350 Electronic & Electronic Equipment
Investment Proposition
Halma delivers sustained shareholder value. We consistently achieve 
record profits, high returns, and strong cash flows with low levels 
of balance sheet gearing. We have a 36-year track record of growing 
dividend payments by 5% or more every year. 
Our strategy is to have a diverse group of businesses building strong competitive advantage  
in specialised safety, health and environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers.  
These growth drivers include increasing Health and Safety regulation, demand for healthcare 
and demand for life-critical resources. They ensure that the need for our products is sustained, in 
both developed and developing regions, through periods of significant macro-economic change.
Organic growth generates the resources we use to fund acquisitions and keep increasing 
dividends. We generate organic growth by increasing levels of investment in people 
development, new product development and in establishing platforms for our businesses 
to grow in international markets.
Our portfolio consists of small to medium-sized manufacturing businesses operating in 23 countries 
and we have major operations in Europe, the USA and Asia. Our principal customer sectors are 
commercial and public buildings, utilities, healthcare/medical, science/environment, process 
industries and energy/resources. This market diversity contributes to our ability to sustain growth 
through economic cyclicality.
We manage the mix of businesses in our Group to ensure we can sustain strong growth and 
returns over the long term. We acquire businesses to accelerate penetration of more attractive 
market niches, we merge businesses when market characteristics change and we exit markets 
which offer less attractive long-term growth and returns through carefully planned disposals.
Halma’s resilient market qualities, sustained investment in organic growth and active portfolio 
management position us strongly to maintain high levels of performance and create shareholder 
value in the future.
2 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Structured for growth
This has been another successful year for Halma demonstrating 
the breadth and strength of our portfolio of companies which 
are focused on protecting life and improving the quality of life for 
people worldwide. 
Last year we announced a significant organisation change in the 
Group into the four market sectors that we operate in and that the 
composition of the Executive Board was to be aligned with these 
sectors. I am pleased to report that the transition of the organisation 
into this new structure has gone extremely well while at the same 
time retaining the important elements of local management and 
entrepreneurship in the businesses. We also believe that this structure 
provides more opportunity to improve succession planning for senior 
management as there is clearer visibility of talent and emerging talent 
in the respective sectors.
During the financial year we acquired three businesses in the Process 
Safety, Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors for a total cost of 
£84m. These businesses have been successfully integrated into their 
respective sectors and are all performing in line with our expectations 
on acquisition. It is encouraging that at the start of this new financial 
year, we have a strong pipeline of potential acquisitions. Identifying 
suitable acquisitions is an important part of our long-term growth 
model and I believe that the Sector CEOs will broaden our M&A activity 
as they focus on the future needs of the markets in which they operate.
The continuing success at Halma is a tribute to the outstanding 
efforts of our talented workforce and a culture that encourages 
innovation and strong local decision making.
In April 2015 we held our biennial leadership conference with 250+ 
people from around the business; this was a great opportunity for 
our colleagues and the Board to be involved and experience the 
development and innovation of products and services in the last year. 
This event has certainly created a healthy competitive culture to be 
the most innovative company in the Group. In addition, the significant 
progress that has been made in driving collaboration between the 
businesses, not only on a sector basis but also across sectors, was 
pleasingly evident. The examples of businesses sharing technology 
and know-how with each other, and case studies of how collaboration 
has enhanced product offering in the marketplace were numerous. 
Such an innovative culture and the success in our collaborative efforts 
create an important platform for future growth at Halma.
Governance
The Board continues to maintain a focused and disciplined approach 
to governance and I believe that a strong governance structure can 
be one of the principal supports for producing outstanding revenue 
Chairman’s Statement 
growth, successful acquisitions and the continued expansion of our 
business through innovation. The Board also remains focused on 
ensuring its own effectiveness and the effectiveness of governance 
processes throughout the Group. It was therefore pleasing that the 
external Board evaluation this year highlighted the Board’s strength 
and the value it brings to the Group.
During the year I was delighted to welcome Roy Twite and Tony Rice 
as non-executive Directors to the Halma Board. Roy and Tony bring 
valuable and different perspectives to our discussions as well as very 
relevant engineering experience.
After 17 years of service, Neil Quinn retired from the Board in 
May 2015. I, and my colleagues, would like to thank Neil for his 
huge contribution to the many businesses with which he has 
worked successfully over a long period of time. Neil’s leadership 
style allowed businesses to flourish and retain their entrepreneurial 
spirit in true Halma style.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Stephen Pettit, 
our Senior Independent Director, for his significant contribution and 
wise counsel to the Company over the last 1 1+ years. Stephen will 
retire at the conclusion of our AGM in July after agreeing to stay on 
for an extra year at last year’s AGM after we had two unanticipated 
Board retirements.
Further information on Corporate Governance is included on pages 
55 to 65.
Performance and dividend
This is the twelfth successive year of revenue, adjusted profit 
and dividend growth which reflects the efforts of our very talented 
workforce in our businesses around the world. The Board and 
I would like to thank all of our colleagues for their commitment 
to driving innovative growth which in turn delivers great value 
for our shareholders. 
I am pleased to report that revenue for the year increased by 7% 
(2014: 9%) to £726m (2014: £677m) with adjusted
1
 profit before tax 
increasing by 10% (2014: 9%) to £154m (2014: £140m). With half of 
the profit increase coming from acquisitions, this sits nicely within our 
financial KPI objective of achieving at least a 5% contribution from 
acquisitions and at least another 5% organically. 
Once again, the Board is recommending a final dividend increase 
of 7% which is 7 .31p per share giving a total dividend for the year 
of 1 1.96p. The final dividend per share is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015 and will be paid on 
19 August 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 2015. 
This marks the 36th consecutive year of dividend per share 
increases of 5% or more.
Summary
During a year of organisation change we have continued to make 
great progress: strategically; operationally; and financially. However 
there is no complacency in the changing markets in which we 
operate. Our priorities for 2016 are to continue to improve focus on 
our customers and their needs through innovation and our go-to-
market strategies. We are also upgrading our talent and education 
programmes to ensure we have the best people to meet the growing 
demands of our customers. A key component of this is to ensure 
that diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our people agenda – 
essential for a business operating in international markets.
Finally I would like to, again, thank all of my colleagues for their 
considerable efforts in contributing to a successful 2015 and I look 
forward to further progress in 2016.
Paul Walker 
Chairman
1
 See Financial Highlights.
3 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  ■ USA 31%
■ Mainland Europe 23%
■ United Kingdom 19%
■ Asia Paciﬁc 16%
■ Other 11%
Revenue by destination
■ Process Safety 27%
■ Infrastructure Safety 30%
■ Medical 27%
■ Environmental & Analysis 16%
Proﬁt
1
 by sector
■ USA 28%
■ Mainland Europe 14%
■ United Kingdom 37%
■ Asia Paciﬁc 20%
■ Other 1%
Employees by location
Business at a Glance
Protecting life Improving quality of life
Sectors Process Safety 
Products which protect assets and people at work. 
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical 
processes. Instruments which detect flammable and 
hazardous gases. Explosion protection and corrosion 
monitoring products.
Infrastructure Safety 
Products which detect hazards to protect assets 
and people in public spaces and commercial 
buildings. Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection 
systems, security sensors and audible/visual 
warning devices. Sensors used on automatic 
doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Medical 
Products used to improve personal and public 
health. Devices used to assess eye health, assist 
with eye surgery and primary care applications. Fluidic 
components such as pumps, probes, valves and 
connectors used by medical diagnostic OEMs.
Environmental & Analysis 
Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life 
sciences and environmental markets. Market-leading 
opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning 
products. Products to monitor water networks, 
UV technology for disinfecting water, and water 
quality testing products.
 Read more p32 Read more p34 Read more 36 Read more 38
Contribution to 
Group revenue
22% 32% 23% 23%
Financial  
highlights
£159m 
Revenue
£45m 
Operating profit
1
£234m 
Revenue
£50m 
Operating profit
1
£169m
Revenue
£45m
Operating profit
1
£164m 
Revenue
£27m 
Operating profit
1
Primary growth  
drivers
 – Increasing health and safety regulation
 – Increasing demand for life-critical resources  
(such as energy and water)
 – Increasing health and safety regulation – Increasing demand for healthcare – Increasing demand for healthcare
 – Increasing demand for life-critical resources  
(such as energy and water)
4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1
 See Note 1 to the Accounts. Process Safety
Infrastructure Safety
Medical
Environmental & Analysis
Corporate
Protecting life Improving quality of life
Sectors Process Safety 
Products which protect assets and people at work. 
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical 
processes. Instruments which detect flammable and 
hazardous gases. Explosion protection and corrosion 
monitoring products.
Infrastructure Safety 
Products which detect hazards to protect assets 
and people in public spaces and commercial 
buildings. Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection 
systems, security sensors and audible/visual 
warning devices. Sensors used on automatic 
doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Medical 
Products used to improve personal and public 
health. Devices used to assess eye health, assist 
with eye surgery and primary care applications. Fluidic 
components such as pumps, probes, valves and 
connectors used by medical diagnostic OEMs.
Environmental & Analysis 
Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life 
sciences and environmental markets. Market-leading 
opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning 
products. Products to monitor water networks, 
UV technology for disinfecting water, and water 
quality testing products.
 Read more p32 Read more p34 Read more 36 Read more 38
Contribution to 
Group revenue
22% 32% 23% 23%
Financial  
highlights
£159m 
Revenue
£45m 
Operating profit
1
£234m 
Revenue
£50m 
Operating profit
1
£169m
Revenue
£45m
Operating profit
1
£164m 
Revenue
£27m 
Operating profit
1
Primary growth  
drivers
 – Increasing health and safety regulation
 – Increasing demand for life-critical resources  
(such as energy and water)
 – Increasing health and safety regulation – Increasing demand for healthcare – Increasing demand for healthcare
 – Increasing demand for life-critical resources  
(such as energy and water)
5 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A record year with increased investment for the future 
Halma has delivered a strong performance, achieving 
record revenue and profit
1
 for the twelfth consecutive year. 
Widespread organic growth, three acquisitions and one 
disposal once again demonstrated the benefits of having 
a clear growth strategy, a simple financial model and a 
customer-focused organisation.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive 
6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 These results, combined with increased investment in talent, 
innovation and international expansion give us good momentum 
for the future. The sector-focused management structure, introduced 
in April 2014, is well-established and ensures Halma can continue 
to grow whilst harnessing our core values and operating culture. 
I have been particularly impressed with the way in which our 
operating companies continued to perform well during this period 
of organisational change and thank all Halma employees for their 
contributions to another successful year.
Good organic growth, high returns and strong 
cash generation
Adjusted
1
 profit was up by 10% to £153.6m (2014: £140.2m) after 
absorbing a 2% negative impact from currency. Organic profit growth 
was 7% at constant currency.
Revenue increased by 7% to £726m (2014: £677m), after absorbing 
a 2% negative impact from currency. Organic revenue growth was 
5% at constant currency.
High returns were maintained with Return on Sales increasing to 
21.2% (2014: 20.7%). Return on Capital Employed at the operating 
company level remained exceptionally strong at 78% (2014 restated: 
77%) and Return on Total Invested Capital (post-tax) was 16.3% 
(2014 restated
1
: 16.7%).
Strong cash generation ensured that we ended the financial year 
with net debt of £101m (2014: £7 4m) after spending £23m on capital 
expenditure (2014: £17m), £88m on current and prior year acquisitions 
(2014: £17m) and paying out £43m in dividends (2014: £40m) to 
shareholders and £31m (2014: £28m) of tax. 
Our balance sheet is strong and we have revolving credit facilities 
of up to £360m until November 2018 to support investment in our 
future growth.
Widespread growth in all regions
We achieved organic constant currency revenue growth in all four 
sectors and all major regions. 
Revenue from the USA increased by 4% to £223m (2014: £214m) 
including organic constant currency growth of 7%. UK revenue grew 
by 8% to £138m (2014: £128m) and Mainland Europe revenue was up 
by 2% to £167m (2014: £164m) with both including organic constant 
currency growth of 2%.
Revenue from outside the USA, UK and Mainland Europe improved 
by 16% to £197m (2014: £170m), representing 27% of total Group 
revenue (2014: 25%). This included 5% organic constant currency 
growth from China which, at £49m (2014: £47m), contributes 7% to 
total Group revenue. Strong growth in our two safety-related sectors 
helped revenue from Africa, Near and Middle East grow by 33% to 
£44m (2014: £33m).
Market snapshot 
Macro-economic, regulatory and 
competitive environment
Halma’s strategy is to develop market positions primed for growth 
over 10 years or more. Growth strategies within each operating 
company are developed with three to five year horizons.
Our focus on the supply of safety, health and environmental related 
products positions our businesses in relatively non-cyclical markets 
with high barriers to entry and long-term growth driven by:
 – increasing health and safety regulation
 – increasing demand for healthcare
 – increasing demand for life-critical resources
Regulation underpins most of our markets, driving sustained 
demand and often making customer spending non-discretionary. 
Our companies’ strong market positions leverage upgrade and 
replacement sales opportunities as customers seek to maintain 
compliance and conform to best practice. 
Our competitive environment is influenced by global, regional and 
national product approvals or technical validations. Compliance 
with new and updated product regulations is a steadily increasing 
cost and technical challenge but our expertise in this area enables 
us to respond quickly and build competitive advantage.
Halma is exposed to a very diverse range of niche markets, 
each with its own unique conditions. As a result, macro-economic 
factors can affect our businesses very differently according to their 
particular market and geographic exposure.
Our approach is for local operating company management to 
develop and execute their own growth strategy and respond to 
changes in their specific markets. Sector management teams 
provide strategic support and oversight for wider-reaching and 
longer term market dynamics. More details are given in the sector 
reviews on pages 32 to 39.
All of the factors above provide our businesses with genuine 
stability: resilience in challenging economic conditions and organic 
growth above prevailing market rates. This underlying, intrinsic 
strength enables us to plan and to invest for the longer term 
with confidence.
For 2015/16, growth projections have been raised for the US 
economy, which is our largest geographic market, possibly 
opening the way for revitalised R&D spending in markets such 
as life sciences. Fluctuations in the oil price have not substantially 
impacted our business so far, as spending on highly-regulated 
safety equipment is largely non-discretionary and the vast 
majority of our revenue comes from mid-stream or downstream 
applications. However, we are mindful that a sustained low oil 
price will eventually make our current high rates of growth in 
Process Safety more difficult to maintain.
Conditions in Europe and the UK are expected to support steady 
growth, though the relative strength of Sterling means that our 
companies need to manage input costs and pricing closely. 
Growth in emerging markets is forecast to continue at around 4% 
to 5% through 2015-16. Developing socio-economic conditions in 
Asia and South America are expected to fuel greater demand for 
our products used to create safer workplaces, provide healthcare, 
improve infrastructure safety and manage life-critical resources.
7 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Organic revenue growth in all sectors at 
constant currency
Process Safety revenue grew by 25% to £159m (2014: £127m) 
including organic constant currency growth of 9%. Profit
2
 improved 
by an impressive 28% to £44.8m (2014: £34.9m) with organic 
constant currency growth of 14%. Return on Sales increased 
from 27 .5% to 28.3%.
Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the 
USA with good growth in Mainland Europe and a small decline in 
the UK, Asia Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East. There was 
an encouraging contribution from Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. 
(RCS), the pipeline corrosion monitoring product company acquired 
in May 2014, which traded in line with expectations.
Infrastructure Safety revenue increased by 6% to £234m (2014: 
£220m) including organic constant currency growth of 5%. Profit
2
 
was up by 12% to £50m (2014: £44.4m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 12%. Return on Sales increased from 20.2% 
to 21.4%.
Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the 
UK and Africa, Near and Middle East with more modest growth in 
the USA and Europe and a small decline in Asia Pacific. Advanced 
Electronics Limited, the UK-based fire detection control systems 
manufacturer acquired in May 2014, performed well. 
In the Medical sector, revenue increased by 4% to £169m (2014: 
£163m) including organic constant currency growth of 6%. Profit
2
 
improved by 9% to £45.4m (2014: £41.8m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 10%. Return on Sales increased from 25.6% 
to 26.8%.
There was strong organic constant currency revenue growth in the 
USA, more modest increases in Mainland Europe and Asia Pacific 
and a slight decline in the UK. The integration of Plasticspritzerei AG, 
acquired in May 2014, into our ophthalmic surgical device business, 
Medicel, was completed to schedule and trading has been good for 
the combined business.
Environmental & Analysis revenue was £164m (2014: £167m) 
including a small organic constant currency increase. Profit
2
 was 
14% lower at £27 .4m (2014: £31.7m) including a 12% decline in 
organic constant currency terms. Return on Sales was 16.7% 
(2014: 19.1%).
After a disappointing first half year, operating performance improved 
in the second half with organic constant currency revenue growth of 
2%, providing encouragement for a more sustained recovery in 
revenue and profitability in 2015/16. 
Regionally, in organic constant currency terms, revenue was down in 
the USA and UK with the latter mainly due to lower investment by UK 
water utilities in the final year of their five-year investment cycle. There 
was organic constant currency revenue growth in Mainland Europe 
and all other major regions (in particular Asia Pacific).
Market snapshot 
Increasing health and safety regulation
Employers throughout the world must comply with increasingly 
strict government laws and regulations to protect their workers, 
the environment and their assets from workplace hazards. 
In parallel with this increasing national regulation in developing 
regions, many multinational employers based in the developed 
world are extending their health and safety practices across their 
global operations. These factors drive demand for our Process 
Safety and Infrastructure Safety products.
The human cost of workplace accidents and diseases is 
enormous. The International Labour Organisation estimates 
that 2.3 million people around the world die each year from 
work-related accidents or diseases. That is over 6,000 fatalities 
per day, or one person every 15 seconds.
In addition, every year 313 million work accidents occur, many 
resulting in extended work absences. Workplace injury and 
occupational disease is a significant economic burden on 
national economies and businesses. The financial impact of poor 
occupational safety and health practice is due to absences from 
work and sickness, disability benefits, compensation, interruption 
of production and medical expenses. These costs are estimated 
to be as high as 4% of global GDP . Above-average workplace 
casualty rates in some countries are estimated to be costing up 
to 10% of annual GDP .
Safety and health at work standards and practices vary 
considerably between countries, economic sectors and social 
groups. However, they are generally rising and becoming more 
closely aligned. Deaths and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in 
developing countries, where a large part of the population may 
work in hazardous conditions. However, greater investment and 
advances in occupational safety are reducing the number of fatal 
accidents at work.
Governments around the world are prompted by deaths and 
injuries caused by accidents to introduce new and tougher 
regulations that protect people from harm in commercial buildings 
and public places. The continuous introduction of new, mandatory 
building codes affecting fire protection, building security, 
automated doors and elevators drives demand for our 
Infrastructure Safety products.
8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Three acquisitions completed and a good pipeline
Halma completed three acquisitions and one disposal during the year.
The current M&A market remains competitive although our pipeline 
of opportunities remains good. In the coming years, we expect to 
benefit from our new sector-focused structure which will provide 
greater resources to support our acquisition activity.
Our core strategy remains to continue to find privately-owned 
businesses in, or adjacent to, our existing markets although each 
sector has the freedom to find new niches which possess the right 
product, market and financial characteristics.
Every transaction is approved by the Group CEO and Finance 
Director, with all deals worth more than £10m also approved by the 
Halma plc Board.
All transactions in the year were completed in May 2014.
 – Plasticspritzerei AG, a Swiss-based supplier to our ophthalmic 
surgical instrument company, Medicel, was acquired for 
CHF6m (£4m), excluding the cash acquired. This business was 
immediately merged into Medicel and contributed to the Medical 
sector’s performance.
 – Advanced Electronics Limited, a UK-based manufacturer of 
networked fire detection and control systems was acquired for 
an initial cash consideration of £14m, excluding the cash acquired. 
Advanced operates as a stand-alone business within our 
Infrastructure Safety sector.
 – Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc., a California-based manufacturer 
of pipeline corrosion monitoring systems was acquired for US$108m 
(£64m), excluding the cash acquired. RCS operates as a stand-
alone business within our Process Safety sector.
 – Monitor Elevator Products Inc., a New York-based manufacturer 
of elevator control panels was sold to another industry player, 
Innovation Industries, for US$6m (£4m). Halma recorded a gain 
before tax of approximately £1m on this transaction. Monitor used 
to report its performance within our Infrastructure Safety sector.
In May 2015, we completed the acquisition of Value Added Solutions, 
LLC (trading as VAS Integrated). VAS, which will become part of Diba 
Industries within the Medical sector, designs and manufactures 
fluidic-related plastic machined components and assemblies for life 
sciences and analytical instruments. The initial cash consideration 
was US$5m (£3m).
Market snapshot 
Increasing demand for healthcare
Four long-term demographic trends drive healthcare 
demand worldwide:
 – ageing of the global population
 – growth of the global population 
 – increase in chronic disease
 – rising incomes in the developing world
Population ageing and rising numbers of people suffering from 
age-related chronic diseases provide a strong, long-term driver for 
healthcare services and products in our Medical and Environmental 
& Analysis sectors in both developed and developing economies. 
Advances in medical technology and new medical procedures 
also stimulate demand for new equipment.
Globally, the number of people aged over 65 is expected to more 
than triple over the next half-century. Life expectancy is expected to 
rise from 72.7 years in 2013 to 73.7 years by 2018. This will mean that 
more than 10% of the world’s population will be over 65. In Western 
Europe the proportion will hit 20% and in Japan, 28%. In the USA, 
the world’s largest healthcare market, increasing life expectancy 
is predicted to double the population of seniors by 2050.
While the oldest population profiles are currently in developed 
countries, the vast majority of older people and the fastest rates 
of change are in developing countries, where the number of older 
people is forecast to rise over 250% by mid-century.
Worldwide healthcare expenditure is about 10% of global 
GDP , and is forecast to increase by over 5% a year until 2018. 
Healthcare spending continues to rise rapidly in the developed 
world. In the USA, for example, total healthcare expenditure was 
estimated at $3.09 trillion in 2014, and is projected to increase to 
$3.57 trillion within three years.
In addition to ageing, population growth and rising wealth are 
strong drivers of healthcare demand in the developing world. 
Spend on healthcare in emerging nations is projected to rise 
dramatically with annual growth estimates for India and China at 
over 15% and 12% respectively, boosted by national initiatives to 
improve accessibility and quality of healthcare.
Globally, the incidence rates of cancer, heart disease, stroke, 
respiratory disease, diabetes and hypertension have risen sharply 
in the past decade, particularly in developing regions. These chronic 
diseases are the leading cause of mortality worldwide due to 
population ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing diets and 
rising obesity. Halma’s focus on ophthalmology and advanced 
blood pressure monitoring products directly relates to the diagnosis 
and treatment of these chronic and age-related diseases.
“ In the coming years, we expect 
to benefit from our new sector-
focused structure which will 
provide greater resources to 
support our acquisition activity.” 
9 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Market snapshot 
Increasing demand for life-critical resources
Rising energy consumption and water usage, the inevitable 
consequences of social and economic development, are driven 
by three key trends:
 – population growth
 – rising living standards
 – dietary and agricultural changes 
Water consumption grew twice as fast as the world population in 
the 20th century. Already one third of the world’s population lives 
in water-stressed countries, and by 2025 that may rise to two 
thirds. By 2030, only 60% of the world’s water needs will be 
met if current trends continue. By 2050, water demand for 
manufacturing alone is expected to increase by between 400% 
and 700%.
Competition for water resources is forecast to increase between 
industries and economic sectors, and between countries in both 
developed and developing regions. The rising value of finite water 
resources drives demand for our water conservation, treatment 
and testing products.
Demand for water is strongly linked to energy demand. Water is 
needed to convert resources into electricity via thermal, nuclear, 
and hydro processes and also alternative sources such as 
irrigation of biofuel crops. 15% of water withdrawal is currently 
used for energy production, but this is expected to rise 20% by 
2035 due to population growth, urbanisation and changing 
consumption patterns.
Worldwide energy demand is expected to grow by more than 
one third up to 2035, with China and India accounting for more 
than half of the growth. Rising demand for energy will put further 
strain on the world’s fresh water resources in the coming decade, 
especially in developing and emerging economies as energy is 
needed at all stages of water extraction, treatment and distribution.
Increasing wealth in developing regions is enabling populations to 
change from starch-based to meat and dairy diets, which raises 
agricultural water demand. Dietary change has had the biggest 
impact on global water consumption over the past 30 years, and 
this trend is expected to continue well into the middle of the 
twenty-first century.
As global demand for water becomes unsustainable, the importance 
of improving efficiency and effective monitoring is growing. Several 
of our Environmental & Analysis sector businesses operate in 
markets driven by the global trends of rising demand for life-critical 
resources such as energy and water. Global investment in 
traditional and unconventional energy sources also drives 
demand for our Process Safety products.
New sectors and Executive Board changes now 
well established
In April 2014, Halma’s Executive Board was reorganised with four 
new Sector Chief Executive (SCE) positions replacing seven Divisional 
Chief Executive roles and the addition of a Group Talent Director. 
During the year, the Executive Board has devoted significant time 
to developing into their new roles both individually and collectively, 
and this leaner board is already proving to be a more efficient 
leadership team.
The strategic rationale for making this change was to give each 
sector the potential to grow to become the size of the whole of 
Halma today while retaining the growth strategy and culture which 
has made Halma successful in the past.
This improved scalability of the Halma model comes from the 
SCEs appointing Sector Vice Presidents (SVPs) to chair operating 
companies within their sector and, during the year, we have recruited 
a new SVP for each sector including two internal promotions. Each 
sector also has a Sector Finance Director which, together with the 
SVPs, provides significant additional resources to support each 
SCE’s acquisition efforts.
In May 2015, Philippe Felten took over from Neil Quinn as Process 
Safety SCE, after a succession planning process started in April 2014. 
I would like to thank Neil for his service to Halma since joining Apollo 
Fire Detectors as their Sales Director in 1987 . Over 28 years, Neil has 
served as a Managing Director, Divisional Chief Executive, Sector 
Chief Executive and as a Halma executive Director, making a 
significant contribution to Halma’s growth.
“ During the year , the Executive 
Board has devoted significant 
time to developing into their 
new roles both individually and 
collectively, and this leaner board 
is already proving to be a more 
efficient leadership team.”
10 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How we are boosting 
growth in China by local 
product development
Halma is always looking for ways in which we can help to accelerate 
the growth and development of our businesses. A key growth 
strategy in fast-growing, developing economies like China is to 
develop innovative, locally-designed products that exactly meet 
the needs of local customers. 
Two years ago we began a programme to subsidise the cost 
of hiring additional R&D staff in China. This encouraged our 
companies to significantly expand their local design engineering 
teams. It has been a great success. So far, 15 Halma businesses 
have taken advantage of the subsidy. They have hired 22 extra 
engineers, with another three in the pipeline. To date, 27 new R&D 
projects have begun and 10 new Chinese-market products have 
been launched, generating sales of over £2m in 2014/15.
Martin Zhang
President, Halma China
The success of our Chinese R&D staff subsidy programme, 
which supports our strategy of moving product development 
closer to customers, is a good example of how we add value 
to our operating companies. It has greatly improved our ability 
to meet local customer needs and injected fresh new ideas 
in developing innovative ways to solve customer problems. 
“ We have spent considerable 
time assessing our senior 
management talent and we 
are putting in place better 
processes to improve our 
talent pipeline, both internally 
and externally.”
Continued strategic investment to drive 
organic growth
Halma is a diverse and decentralised business. Our companies 
benefit from being part of the Group both through collaboration with 
other Halma companies and the targeted central investment made 
by Halma in three key areas: Talent Development, Innovation and 
International Expansion.
Talent development
Following the appointment of our Group Talent Director, Jennifer 
Ward in April 2014, we have spent considerable time assessing our 
senior management talent and we are putting in place better processes 
to improve our talent pipeline, both internally and externally.
Each subsidiary Managing Director has completed an individual 
assessment which has highlighted their core strengths and 
development needs against our future leadership requirements. We 
have also revised and re-launched our Diversity and Inclusion policy 
and this was a focus for our senior managers attending the Halma 
Innovation and Technology Exposition (HITE) in Barcelona in April 
2015. We have an increasingly diverse customer base and recognise 
the need to continuously work to reflect this in the diversity of our 
leadership teams.
Innovation
Our investment in new products increased once again, with R&D 
spend up by 8% to £34.6m (2014: £32. 1m), representing around 5% 
of revenue. New product innovation is a vital component of growing 
revenue through market share gain and market expansion, but Halma’s 
commitment to innovation is much broader and encompasses 
all aspects of our business.
The biennial HITE events enable senior managers of all Halma’s 
subsidiary companies to meet and share their experience and 
knowledge with each other. This year’s event embraced digital 
technology with a ‘virtual’ trade show which increased the time 
and space available for collaboration. It also enabled the winners 
of the Halma Annual Innovation Awards to be voted for by HITE 
delegates during the event itself.
The award for Best Product Innovation was won by Alicat 
Scientific’s Whisper series of gas flow meters which accurately 
measures gas flow rates without the sensor device itself adversely 
affecting the measurement. The Best Process Innovation was 
awarded to Netherlocks for its R&D internship programme and the 
Best Collaboration award went to Crowcon and Perma Pure for 
Crowcon’s Sprint eVo gas analyser which incorporated Perma 
Pure’s gas sample conditioning technology.
11 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
International expansion
Halma continues to invest to accelerate subsidiaries’ growth in 
international markets. Regions outside the USA, UK and Mainland 
Europe now contribute over 27% of the Group revenue compared with 
less than 18% in 2005, even though we have achieved strong growth in 
our core developed markets too. A catalyst for our success has been 
the Halma hubs first created in China in 2006, in India in 2008 and, 
more recently, replicated by individual sectors in South America.
Halma’s approach is to put in place the commercial infrastructure 
necessary to enable our subsidiary companies to build a direct 
presence in these target markets more quickly than they would be 
able to do so alone. For example, in the last two years Halma has 
subsidised the cost of additional R&D engineers in China for our 
businesses to develop new products for the local market. To date 
subsidiary companies have added around 25 new engineers and 
revenue from the new products launched so far exceeded £2m 
in 2014/15 and is forecast to be more than double that in the 
coming year.
Delivering corporate responsibility and sustainability
Our primary market growth drivers mean that Halma companies 
operate in markets in which their products contribute positively to the 
wider community. These market characteristics and our commitment 
to health and safety, the environment and people development are 
reflected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
We review our responsibility and sustainability reporting in 
accordance with best practice. Legislative changes, particularly 
concerning the environment and bribery and corruption, have 
provided an opportunity to review and ensure that our procedures 
in these important areas are accessible, compliant and firmly 
embedded within our business.
A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 42 to 47 .
Outlook
I am very pleased with the progress that Halma has made this year 
by achieving good organic growth, completing three acquisitions and 
a disposal while further increasing investment in talent development, 
innovation and international expansion.
Changes made to our organisation in April 2014 mean that, in the 
longer term, each of our four sectors has the potential to grow to 
become the size of the whole of Halma today, through continued 
and disciplined execution of our well-proven growth strategy. 
We expect to make further progress in the year ahead.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive 
1
 See Financial Highlights.
2
 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Risk
Governance
Corporate Responsibility
Sustainable
growth
 
 
Business Model and Strategy 
Business model 
What is Halma’s growth objective?
Our business model objective is to double Group revenue and profit every five years. 
We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth. Return on Sales in excess of 18%  
and Return on Capital Employed over 45% ensure that cash generation is strong enough to sustain  
investment for growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
Strategy 
How do we grow?
We operate in relatively non-cyclical, specialised global niche markets. Our technology and application know-how deliver  
strong competitive advantage to sustain growth and high returns. Our chosen markets have significant barriers to entry.  
Demand for our products is underpinned by resilient, long-term growth drivers.
We place our operational resources close to our customers through autonomous locally managed businesses.  
We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
Grow
KPIs
– Organic profit growth
– EPS growth
– Revenue growth
– Return on Sales
– ROTIC
–  International expansion
 Read more PP16 and 22 to 24
Governance
Halma is committed to maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance and ensuring 
values and behaviours are consistent across the 
business. Halma promotes open and transparent 
discussion and constructive challenge across 
the Group to ensure best practice is maintained. 
That governance culture is integral to our strategy 
and decision-making processes for the benefit 
of our shareholders.
Risk
Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating 
structure which spreads the Group’s activities 
across a number of autonomous subsidiary 
companies. Each of these companies is led by a 
high-quality board of directors including a finance 
executive. Group companies operate under a 
system of robust controls which address our 
principal risks and uncertainties.
Corporate Responsibility
Halma companies are involved in the manufacture 
of a wide range of products that protect and 
improve the quality of life for people worldwide. 
Halma has developed meaningful key performance 
indicators (KPIs) that reflect the importance the 
Group places on corporate responsibility and 
enable the Board to monitor the Group’s progress 
in meeting its objectives and responsibilities in 
these areas. 
 Read more PP59 to 65 Read more PP26 to 31 Read more PP25 and 42 to 47
Acquire
KPIs
–  Acquisition profit 
growth
– Cash generation
 Read more PP18, 22 and 24
Empower
KPIs
– Values alignment
– Health & Safety
–  D eve l o p m e n t 
programmes
 Read more PP20 and 25
Innovate
KPIs
–  Research and 
development
 Read more PP14 and 24
13 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Philippe Felten
Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety
I’ve been very impressed by the effort 
and intelligence that went into the Sprint 
eVo development process. The product’s 
commercial success is proof of the value 
of innovation through collaboration, and 
really shows how well Crowcon responded 
to the demands of the market and its 
customers’ feedback.
Read more P32
Strategy in action
Innovation in products and processes is a key driver of organic growth. It enables 
us to build competitive advantage, gain market share, open up new markets and 
achieve high returns. In addition to increasing our spending on innovation and R&D, 
we held a fourth Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition (HITE) in April 2015 
to encourage collaboration between all Halma companies. 
In recent years, several products have been launched resulting from collaboration 
between Halma companies including Crowcon’s Sprint eVo gas flue analyser, one 
of the winners of this year’s Halma Innovation Awards, a collaboration between 
Crowcon and sister company Perma Pure.
The Sprint series of flue gas testers for domestic boilers is one of Crowcon’s 
most high profile product lines. To secure a renewal of its contract with British Gas, 
the company developed the Sprint eVo. This successfully won the contract by 
combining new features, better performance, unique technology from Perma Pure 
and an enhanced version of the software which heating engineers were already 
trained to use.
Innovation 
through 
collaboration
14 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Growing through 
diversification
Nigel Trodd
Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety
Platform screen doors are a fast-growing trend 
around the world, so it is especially pleasing 
to see BEA’s success here. The company’s 
technology, expertise and reputation in the 
automatic pedestrian door market positions 
it perfectly to expand into adjacent markets, 
as hundreds of thousands of passengers in 
Paris can now experience every day.
Read more P34
Strategy in action
We choose to operate in niches within markets with robust long-term growth 
drivers on a global scale. This gives our businesses the opportunity to sustain 
growth in all regions of the world. 
Our current focus is on increasing selling resources together with enhancing our 
local product development capabilities. Through this, we aim to ensure that we 
are able to continue to achieve growth rates in excess of the underlying market 
growth through gaining market share and diversifying into new markets. 
BEA designs, assembles and sells sensors for automatic doors. When we 
acquired BEA in 2002 it was already the world leader in its specialised market. 
Since then, the company’s strategy for growth has been to maintain global market 
leadership in the pedestrian door sensors niche while diversifying into industrial, 
security and transport door control applications based on market-led innovation. 
One new application for their technology is door sensors on the platform screen 
doors on the Paris metro.
16 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Adam Meyers
Sector Chief Executive, Medical
Our offering to the ophthalmic surgery market 
has never been better, and response to market 
trends is a key part of our success. Medical 
professionals are increasingly preferring the 
hygiene and simplicity of single-use disposable 
devices, so the recent launch of MST’s Allegro 
really highlights our ability to react quickly and 
effectively to customer demands.
Read more P36
Strategy in action
Acquisitions are a key strategic investment which strengthen our product 
portfolio, add new technologies, deepen our management talent pool and extend 
our geographic reach. They help us to sustain growth and high returns and create 
shareholder value over the long term. 
Our strategy is to buy companies with technology we understand selling into 
markets we know. They must fit well with our operating culture and growth 
strategy, in addition to having strong financial metrics. As a highly cash-generative 
business with a strong balance sheet, we can invest in acquisitions without 
accumulating excessive debt. 
Since acquiring Microsurgical Technology in 2012, single-use instruments have 
become more and more popular. In 2015 the company launched the Allegro, a 
single-use device for removing part of the lens during cataract surgery. It offers 
significantly improved performance and ease of use for both surgeons and 
nurses, and is safer for patients than competitive products.
Acquiring 
innovative 
businesses
18 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Chuck Dubois
Sector Chief Executive,  
Environmental & Analysis
By designing products specifically for local 
markets, we can differentiate ourselves from the 
competition and better satisfy market needs. 
Ocean Optics Asia is showing a great example 
of this by perfectly tailoring the Accuman to suit 
the regulatory and quality control requirements 
of the Chinese pharmaceutical market.
Read more P38
Strategy in action
Halma has a highly decentralised organisational structure which delivers 
sustainable competitive advantage. Subsidiary companies are given considerable 
freedom for entrepreneurial action and are empowered to make timely decisions 
in the best interests of their business. 
We place our operational resources close to our customers. Research and 
development, manufacturing, sales, marketing and human resources are all 
managed at operating company level. With an intimate knowledge of their market 
dynamics and customer needs, subsidiary management is best placed to make 
local resource allocation decisions swiftly in response to market changes. 
The establishment of Ocean Optics Asia as a stand-alone business has led to 
more innovative products for the Chinese market including the Accuman. Chinese 
regulations mean that every pharmaceutical manufacturer will soon have to check 
all their raw material to ensure quality. Accuman is a portable tool which uses 
non-destructive spectroscopy to quickly perform the required tests.
Responding 
to local 
market needs
20 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Strategic focus 
The measure of how successful we are in 
growing our business organically and by 
acquisition coupled with strong financial 
disciplines, including those related to tax 
and capital allocation, is captured in the 
Group’s adjusted earnings per share. 
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
7
5 5* 5
19
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
5
4
6
10
2
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
9
10
7*
19
21
Key Performance Indicators – KPIs
Strategic focus 
Through careful selection of our market niches and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue and profit growth in the medium term. We buy companies 
with business and market characteristics similar to those of existing Halma operations. Acquired 
businesses have to be a good fit with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being value-
enhancing financially.
Organic profit growth %
(constant currency)
7%
Performance 
>5%
Target
KPI definition 
Organic profit growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in profit 
achieved in the current year compared with the prior 
year from continuing Group operations. The effect 
of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been equalised.
Comment 
Organic profit growth at constant currency 
exceeded our minimum target. Growth of 7 .2% 
included strong performances in Process Safety, 
Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors.
2016 target 
The Board has established a long-term minimum 
organic growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above 
the blended long-term average growth rate of 
our markets.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Principal Risks and Uncertainties P28
 – Note 3 to the Accounts P1 16
Remuneration linkage
Growth in organic profit is a key element of the 
economic value added performance which forms 
the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring 
consistent annual and longer-term growth, 
rewarding disciplined financial performance. The 
use of EVA clearly reinforces the Group’s strategic 
objective to double Group profit every five years. 
Acquisition profit growth %
5%
Performance 
>5%
Target
KPI definition 
Acquisition profit growth measures the annualised 
contribution to the Group’s operations derived 
from acquisitions made in the year, measured at 
the date of acquisition.
Comment 
Annualised acquisition profit growth met our target 
of 5% for the year. We have substantial financial 
capacity and bank facilities to finance more 
value-enhancing acquisitions.
2016 target 
2016 began with one acquisition in the first quarter, 
financed through our existing debt facilities. 
Acquisitions must meet our demanding criteria 
and we continue to have a strong pipeline of 
opportunities to meet our 5% growth target.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Principal Risks and Uncertainties P28
 – Note 3 to the Accounts P1 16
Remuneration linkage
Growth in acquired profit is the second 
key element of the economic value added 
performance which forms the basis of the 
annual bonus plan, requiring consistent annual 
and longer-term growth, rewarding disciplined 
financial performance.
EPS growth % 
(adjusted earnings per share)
9%
Performance 
>10%
Target
KPI definition
Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from 
continuing operations excluding the amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit 
or loss on disposal of operations; the effects of 
closure to future benefit accrual of the defined 
benefit pension plans net of associated costs 
(2014 only); and associated tax thereon. 
Comment 
Performance was just below target and would 
have exceeded it if the impact of currency 
translation and disposals had been excluded.
2016 target
We aim for the combination of organic and 
acquisition growth to exceed 10% per annum over 
the long term. The Directors consider that adjusted 
earnings represent a more consistent measure of 
underlying performance.
Also see 
 – Note 2 to the Accounts P1 15
Remuneration linkage
EPS provides a clear link to the aims of the 
business growth strategy. It is a key financial 
driver for our business and provides a clear line 
of sight for our executives. EPS is 50% of the 
performance condition attaching to the new 
Executive Share Plan.
*Before restatement *Before restatement
22 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic focus 
Through careful selection of our market niches 
and strategic investment in people development, 
international expansion and innovation we aim to 
achieve organic growth in excess of our blended 
market growth rate, broadly matching revenue and 
profit growth in the medium term. 
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
5
6
3
6
11
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
21.2
20.7 20.8* 20.8
20.2
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
16.3
16.7 16.6*
17.6
16.0
Strategic focus
We choose to operate in markets which are capable of delivering high returns. The ability to maintain 
these returns is a result of maintaining strong market and product positions sustained by continuing 
product and process innovation.
Return on Sales %
21.2%
Performance 
>18%
Target
KPI definition 
Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit 
before taxation from continuing operations 
expressed as a percentage of revenue from 
continuing operations. 
Comment 
Return on Sales was well above target and 
increased over the prior year. Process Safety, 
Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors all 
achieved increased Return on Sales this year. 
Environmental & Analysis increased profitability 
in the second half of the year. 
2016 target
We aim to achieve a Return on Sales within the 
18% to 22% range while continuing to deliver 
profit growth.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
Remuneration linkage
Return on Sales is a measure of the value our 
customers place on our products and of our 
operational efficiency. High profitability supports 
the generation of high economic value.
ROTIC % 
(Return on Total Invested Capital)
16.3%
Performance 
>12%
Target
KPI definition 
ROTIC is defined as the post-tax return from 
continuing operations before amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit 
or loss on disposal of operations; and the effects 
of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined 
benefit pension plans net of associated costs 
(2014 only) as a percentage of average 
shareholders’ funds. 
Comment 
Performance was above target and in line with the 
prior year. Consistently high returns are in excess 
of our long-term Weighted Average Cost of Capital 
(WACC) of 7 .6% (2014: 7 .5%). 
2016 target
The target of 12% was set in 2005 when the 
Group’s ROTIC was 12. 1% and WACC was 7 .9%. 
A range of 12% to 17% is considered representative 
of the Board’s expectations over the long term 
to ensure a good balance between growth 
and returns. 
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Note 3 to the Accounts P1 16
Remuneration linkage
ROTIC performance, averaged over three 
financial years, is 50% of the performance 
condition attaching to the Company’s 
Performance Share Plan and the new Executive 
Share Plan.
Organic revenue growth %
(constant currency) 
5%
Performance 
>5%
Target
KPI definition
Organic revenue growth is calculated at constant 
currency and measures the change in revenue 
achieved in the current year compared with the prior 
year from continuing Group operations. The effect 
of acquisitions and disposals made during the 
current or prior financial year has been equalised.
Comment 
Organic growth at constant currency in revenue 
met our minimum target with growth in all sectors 
and all geographic regions.
2016 target
The Board has established a long-term minimum 
organic growth target of 5% p.a., slightly above 
the blended long-term average growth rate of 
our markets.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Principal Risks and Uncertainties P28
 – Note 3 to the Accounts P1 16
Remuneration linkage
Organic growth in revenue contributes to the 
economic value added performance which 
forms the basis of the annual bonus plan, 
requiring consistent annual and longer-term 
growth, rewarding disciplined financial 
performance.
*After restatement *  After restatement. In addition, ROTIC in all prior years has been 
restated using average Total Invested Capital.
23 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
87
89
85*
86
89
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
27
25 25
24 24
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
4.8
4.7
5.0
4.7
5.0
Key Performance Indicators – KPIs continued
Strategic focus 
We have maintained high levels of R&D investment 
and spending on innovation. The successful 
introduction of new products is a key contributor to 
the Group’s ability to build competitive advantage 
and grow organically and internationally.
Research and development
4.8%
Performance 
>4%
Target
KPI definition 
Total research and development expenditure in the 
financial year (both that expensed and capitalised) 
as a percentage of revenue from continuing 
operations.
Comment 
Total spend in the year increased by 8% to £34.6m 
(2014: £32. 1m) exceeding the 4% of revenue target. 
Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety and Medical 
sectors all increased R&D expenditure. We have a 
good pipeline of new products which should 
benefit 2015/16 and beyond.
2016 target 
New products contribute strongly towards 
achieving organic growth, maintaining high  
returns and building strong market positions.  
The 4% minimum investment target is appropriate 
to the mix of product life cycles and technologies 
within Halma.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
Strategic focus 
Strong cash generation provides the Group with 
freedom to pursue its strategic goals of organic 
growth, acquisitions and progressive dividends 
without becoming highly-leveraged.
Cash generation
87%
Performance 
>85%
Target
KPI definition 
Cash generation is calculated using adjusted 
operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted 
operating profit. 
Comment 
Cash generation of 87% (2014: 89%) was in excess 
of the 85% target in the current year with strong 
cash performances across the Group. 
2016 target 
The goal of Group cash inflow exceeding 85%  
of profit is a metric that has relevance at all levels  
of the organisation and aligns management action 
with Group needs. We ensure that strong internal 
cash flow and availability of external funding 
underpin our strategic goals of organic growth, 
acquisitions and progressive dividends.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Note 3 to the Accounts P1 16
Strategic focus
The safety, health and environmental markets  
in Asia and other developing regions are evolving 
quickly. We continue to invest in establishing local 
selling, technical and manufacturing resources to 
meet this current and future need.
International expansion
27%
Performance 
30%
Target by 2015
KPI definition 
Total sales to markets outside the UK, USA and 
Mainland Europe as a percentage of total Group 
revenue from continuing operations.
Comment 
Revenue outside the UK, USA and Mainland 
Europe increased to 27% of the Group total (2014: 
25%) but remained below the KPI target. Good 
progress has been made in the past five years 
against the background of our strong growth in 
developed markets. There was good growth in 
Asia Pacific and very strong growth in Africa, 
Near and Middle East and in ‘Other Countries’, 
in particular, in South America.
2016 target 
The target we set in 2010 reinforced the 
importance of emerging markets and led to Halma 
corporate hubs in China, India and Brazil, all 
assisting companies in setting up local operations. 
In future reports we plan to replace this metric with 
a KPI expressed in terms of absolute international 
revenue growth.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Financial Review P48
 – Note 1 to the Accounts P1 12
*After restatement
24 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
60
51
56
54
71
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
6
5 5
6
5
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
0.15
0.09
0.20
0.22
0.34*
KPI definition 
Number of current employees having attended an 
in-house development programme compared with 
the estimated pool of qualifying participants.
Comment 
Recognising the vital role that our people play in 
delivering organic growth, our training courses 
have been designed to enhance the skills of the 
next generation of directors, managers and 
innovators. The performance metric is influenced 
by the introduction of new courses and new 
eligible employees joining the Group through 
acquisitions. Overall we are satisfied with our 
performance and progress.
2016 target 
The introduction of the Halma Graduate 
Development Programme in 2012 with its fourth 
intake later in 2015 is an important expansion of 
the Group’s development programmes and is 
targeted to bring further new talent into the Group.
Also see
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Corporate Responsibility P42
Development programmes 
(management development)
60%
Performance 
>50% 
Target 
Strategic focus
The Halma Executive Development Programme 
(HEDP), the Halma Management Development 
Programme (HMDP) and the Halma Graduate 
Development Programme (HGDP) provide 
executives, middle managers and key personnel 
with the necessary skills they need in their current 
and future roles.
Values alignment (out of 10)
6 
Performance 
≥5 
Target
Health & Safety 
(Accident Frequency Rate)
0. 15 
Performance 
<0.09
Target
KPI definition 
The survey of Group employees looks for matching 
values in a comparison of the 10 current culture 
values receiving the highest number of votes with 
the equivalent 10 values employees want to see  
in their working culture.
Comment 
The results indicate an improving alignment of 
six, exceeding the target of five or more matching 
values. This is an excellent result reflecting well on 
the structural changes made at the beginning of 
the financial year. Numbers of participants in the 
survey have increased by one third since last year.
2016 target 
The minimum target of five matching values 
remains relevant; the goal for 2016 will be to 
continue to improve the Group’s communication of 
its values and to maintain the high rate of employee 
participation in such surveys.
Also see 
 – Chief Executive’s Strategic Review P06
 – Corporate Responsibility P42
KPI definition 
The year-to-date Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
is the total number of reportable** incidents in the 
period divided by the number of hours worked 
in that period by employees (including temporary 
staff and any overtime) multiplied by 100,000 hours 
(representing the estimated number of working 
hours in an employee’s work lifetime). The AFR 
figure represents an indication of how many 
incidents an employee will have in his/her 
working life. 
Comment 
The H&S AFR performance this year was 0. 15 
(2014: 0.09) which reversed the position achieved 
last year. We have reviewed the incidents 
contributing to this increase and there are no 
specific underlying patterns which cause concern.
2016 target 
The target is maintained at 0.09 to match the 
health and safety performance which was 
achieved in 2013/14, with a view to ultimately 
setting a reportable incident target rate of zero.
Also see 
 – Corporate Responsibility P42
*  2011 AFR figures are estimated due to reporting changes 
in 2010/11.
**  Specified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which 
result in more than three working days lost.
Strategic focus 
Since 2007 Halma has conducted an annual 
survey of its employees to assess how well the 
Group’s values are aligned with its employees’ 
current experiences and future aspirations.
Strategic focus 
Halma has an excellent health and safety record, 
with no work-related fatalities in 2014/15 or in  
prior years. Safety is critical and a major priority  
for the Group. Halma collects details of its 
worldwide reported health and safety incidents 
and encourages all Group companies to seek 
continuous improvement in their health and  
safety records and culture.
25 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Risk Management  
and Internal Controls 
Internal control
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted 
a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for 
decision. This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors 
maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, 
financial and organisational issues.
During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment 
continue to be taken centrally by Group management, not least 
with the sector structure providing additional, dedicated personnel 
who supplement and reinforce our controls and the culture in 
which we operate. The duties and responsibilities of subsidiary 
management are continually refreshed as well as documented 
in a manual circulated to all subsidiary managing directors and 
available on our collaboration platform. A comprehensive induction 
programme for subsidiary finance directors was launched three 
years ago and our internal financial review procedures have been 
refreshed. We strengthened the resources dedicated to identifying 
and investigating potential acquisitions and the policies to ensure a 
rapid and successful integration following acquisition. The scope of 
the Group’s policies and the programme of compliance audits are 
regularly reviewed to ensure they are sufficient to address current 
risks. The Group placed additional emphasis on updating our 
business continuity plans over recent years ensuring that they 
are mutually complementary to our insurance programme.
The Group’s treasury and hedging policy is kept under review to 
ensure that appropriate accounting and banking arrangements are 
aligned with the Group’s growth and to ensure continued compliance 
with accounting requirements.
The internal audit function has operated independently since 2004, 
reporting to the Audit Committee. In 2008/09, a dedicated Internal 
Audit manager was added to support the function and during 2010/1 1 
an internal auditor based in China was recruited. A further review of 
resources occurred more recently resulting in the appointment of a 
US-based internal auditor. Internal audit procedures are routinely 
benchmarked and evolve to reflect changing circumstances and 
specific requirements and to enhance effectiveness.
Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which 
spreads the Group’s activities across a number of autonomous 
subsidiary companies. Each of these companies is overseen by 
sector executives and led by a high-quality board of directors 
including a finance executive.
Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk 
management further into the operations of the business and to 
deal with areas of improvement which come to management’s 
and the Board’s attention.
Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes 
but is not limited to:
Group internal control system
The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control are summarised below:
 – operating companies, with the oversight of their sector boards, carry out a detailed risk assessment each year 
and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk. A risk register is compiled from this 
information, against which operational risk action is monitored through to resolution and strategic risks are 
reported to the Group. Group management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting 
existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks; 
 – each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, 
its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions. The relevant Sector Chief Executive or Sector Vice 
President chairs this meeting and he meets regularly with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and reports 
on sectoral progress to the Executive Board; 
 – financial and trading ‘warning signs’ are reported to Group and sector management. Weekly data on cash 
management and sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and  
the Group finance team. This framework is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct 
appropriate action where necessary; 
 – the Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of 
Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group. The papers also 
cover progress against strategic objectives and shareholder-related issues. The Finance Director also submits 
a separate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting; 
 – regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards  
is encouraged; cyclical and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff 
resulting in actions being fed back to each company and followed up by Senior Finance Executives and Sector 
Chief Executives. Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit 
Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee; senior finance staff 
also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year-end figures. 
We have a Group-wide IT policy supported by a programme of IT health checks. Group IT manages aspects of 
our cyber security risks and IT development needs; and
 – the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects 
of internal control. The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers  
and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as a basis for its annual review of internal control. 
26 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sector Boards
Senior Finance Executives Subsidiary Company Boards 
 – a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation 
of authority to operational management which ensures appropriate 
segregation of key duties; 
 – the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the 
annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through 
an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and 
informally through close monitoring of operations; 
 – a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly enhanced, 
within which actual and forecast results are compared with approved 
budgets and the previous year’s figures on a monthly basis. Weekly 
cash/sales/orders reporting including details of financial institutions is 
also maintained within the financial reporting system, all of which is 
reviewed at both local, sector and Group level; 
 – an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level 
of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs; 
 – self-certification by operating company and sector management 
of compliance and control issues with additional verification 
performed centrally; 
 – a robust structure for electronic communication and conducting 
e-commerce to ensure that the Group is not adversely impacted by 
threats to its information technology infrastructure and to minimise 
potential for business disruptions. The Group has a wide range of 
measures and policies and a framework in place which includes a 
virtual private network covering over 100 sites worldwide, secure 
firewalls, an IT security and threat monitoring system, information 
management audits, disaster recovery and a mobile devices 
management system; and 
 – an acquisitions and disposals framework which governs the due 
diligence, negotiation, approval and integration processes to ensure 
that value-enhancing, quality investments are made in order to 
meet our strategic objectives.
Group risk management
The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which is consistent with the Group’s structure. 
Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the risk review cycle 
throughout the year. 
 – review and management of the strategic risks of the 
Group with visibility of the sector risks;
 – consideration of the environment in which the Group 
operates; and
 – setting the risk appetite of the Group.
 – delivery of Group strategic actions; and
 – monitoring Group key risk indicators.
 – execution of any Group–level strategic actions; 
and reporting on any identified key risks and 
mitigation progress.
 – assessment of the effectiveness of risk management 
systems across the Group; and
 – reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
 – reviewing completeness and consistency across the 
sectors and adequacy of mitigation actions;
 – consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures across 
the businesses; and
 – review/management/consolidation of operational risks 
(both sector and business unit, delegated as the Sector 
Chief Executive deems appropriate).
 – reporting of significant and emerging risks to the Group;
 – identification, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation 
and monitoring of operational risks which are the 
responsibility of each subsidiary company; and 
 – identification of strategic risks which are reported 
to the Group.
Board and 
Audit 
Committee
Executive 
Board and 
Senior 
Finance 
Executives
Subsidiary 
Companies
Chief Executive 
Executive Board 
Audit Committee
Company Secretary 
Internal Audit 
Whistleblowing 
Operational Compliance
Top Down 
Strategic Risk Management
Bottom Up 
Operational Risk Management
Board 
27 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
Halma’s principal risks and uncertainties are detailed below and are supported by the robust risk management and internal control systems 
and procedures noted on pages 26 and 27 .
Movements indicate management’s perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
 	
Increased risk

	No change to risk
 	
Decreased risk
Strategic 
objective
Risk description Movement Potential impact Mitigation
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Globalisation
A key operational risk emanates from 
the remoteness of operations from Head 
Office and the increasing global spread 
of our businesses.

 – Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal control and 
divergence from overall Group strategy in remote operations, 
leading to businesses taking on more risks than intended or 
unexpected financial outcomes 
 – Failure to comply with local laws and regulations in unfamiliar 
territories, leading to reputational issues and legal or regulatory 
disputes
 – Continued international growth increases risk
 – Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise resources efficiently
 – Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Group’s policy of autonomous management. We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
 – The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises the importance the Group places on local knowledge and experience.
 – The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
 – Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review of the businesses. The right balance between autonomy 
and adherence to the overall objectives of the Group is a key function of the Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and Senior Finance Executives.
 – Regular visits to the more remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit support 
local control. 
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Competition
The Group faces competition in  
the form of pricing, service, reliability  
and substitution.

 – Loss of market share due to price pressure and changing markets 
 – Reduced financial performance arising from competitive threats 
 – By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward price 
pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
 – We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, we are better 
placed to make fast progress ourselves.
 – The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers-to-entry.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Economic conditions 
In times of uncertain economic 
conditions, businesses face additional 
or elevated levels of risk. These include 
market and customer risk, customer 
default, fraud, supply chain risk and 
liquidity risk.

 – Reduced financial performance 
 – Loss of market share 
 – Unforeseen liabilities 
 – Disruption of service to customers
 – Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local knowledge is situated. The financial strength and availability of pooled finances 
within the Group mitigates local risks faced by operating companies as does the robust credit management processes in place across the Group.
 – The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which require action.
 – The Group’s geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory. The Group does not have significant operations, cash 
deposits or sources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Financial
Funding
A key risk is that the Group may run out 
of cash or not have access to adequate 
funding. In addition, cash deposits need 
to be held in a secure form and location.

	
 – Constraints on trading and/or buying new companies
 – Inability to deliver on growth strategies 
 – Permanent loss of shareholders’ funds
 – The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
 – Cash needs are monitored regularly. In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the Group renewed and increased to £360m its five-year revolving credit 
facility in 2013/14 providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its current needs.
 – Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks. Subsidiaries report their cash/indebtedness status to 
Head Office every week.
Treasury
Foreign currency risk is the most 
significant treasury-related risk for the 
Group. In times of increased volatility  
this can have a significant impact on 
performance. The Group is exposed to a 
lesser extent to other treasury risks such 
as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.

 – Volatile financial performance arising from translation of profit 
from overseas operations or poorly-managed foreign exchange 
exposures 
 – Deviation from core strategy through the use of speculative 
or overly complex financial instruments 
 – Financial penalties and reputational damage arising from breach 
of banking covenants
 – More of Group profit now earned in non-Sterling currencies 
 – Increased interest rate risk on higher forecast borrowings
 – The risk has increased because more of the Group’s profits are derived from non-Sterling currencies. Currency profits are not hedged. Currency hedging 
must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures. This requires the hedging of a 
substantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months (and in exceptional cases 24 months) ahead. Longer-term currency trends can 
only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
 – The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
 – We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and operate well within these covenants.
Pension deficit
To meet our pension obligations, we 
must adequately fund our pension plans. 
Our UK Defined Benefit pension plans are 
now closed to new members and future 
benefit accrual for existing members.
	
 – Excessive consumption of cash, limiting investment in operations
 – Unexpected variability in the Company’s financial results
 – There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item. The Group’s strong cash flows and 
access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately managed.
 – The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuary’s recommendations. 
We monitor and consider alternative means of reducing our pension risk in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders.
 – Although the pension deficit increased in 2014/15, the UK Defined Benefit pension plans were closed to future accrual on 1 December 2014 reducing future risk.
28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic 
objective
Risk description Movement Potential impact Mitigation
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Globalisation
A key operational risk emanates from 
the remoteness of operations from Head 
Office and the increasing global spread 
of our businesses.

 – Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal control and 
divergence from overall Group strategy in remote operations, 
leading to businesses taking on more risks than intended or 
unexpected financial outcomes 
 – Failure to comply with local laws and regulations in unfamiliar 
territories, leading to reputational issues and legal or regulatory 
disputes
 – Continued international growth increases risk
 – Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise resources efficiently
 – Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Group’s policy of autonomous management. We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
 – The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises the importance the Group places on local knowledge and experience.
 – The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
 – Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review of the businesses. The right balance between autonomy 
and adherence to the overall objectives of the Group is a key function of the Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and Senior Finance Executives.
 – Regular visits to the more remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit support 
local control. 
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Competition
The Group faces competition in  
the form of pricing, service, reliability  
and substitution.

 – Loss of market share due to price pressure and changing markets 
 – Reduced financial performance arising from competitive threats 
 – By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward price 
pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
 – We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, we are better 
placed to make fast progress ourselves.
 – The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers-to-entry.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Economic conditions 
In times of uncertain economic 
conditions, businesses face additional 
or elevated levels of risk. These include 
market and customer risk, customer 
default, fraud, supply chain risk and 
liquidity risk.

 – Reduced financial performance 
 – Loss of market share 
 – Unforeseen liabilities 
 – Disruption of service to customers
 – Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local knowledge is situated. The financial strength and availability of pooled finances 
within the Group mitigates local risks faced by operating companies as does the robust credit management processes in place across the Group.
 – The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which require action.
 – The Group’s geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory. The Group does not have significant operations, cash 
deposits or sources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Financial
Funding
A key risk is that the Group may run out 
of cash or not have access to adequate 
funding. In addition, cash deposits need 
to be held in a secure form and location.

	
 – Constraints on trading and/or buying new companies
 – Inability to deliver on growth strategies 
 – Permanent loss of shareholders’ funds
 – The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
 – Cash needs are monitored regularly. In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the Group renewed and increased to £360m its five-year revolving credit 
facility in 2013/14 providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its current needs.
 – Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks. Subsidiaries report their cash/indebtedness status to 
Head Office every week.
Treasury
Foreign currency risk is the most 
significant treasury-related risk for the 
Group. In times of increased volatility  
this can have a significant impact on 
performance. The Group is exposed to a 
lesser extent to other treasury risks such 
as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.

 – Volatile financial performance arising from translation of profit 
from overseas operations or poorly-managed foreign exchange 
exposures 
 – Deviation from core strategy through the use of speculative 
or overly complex financial instruments 
 – Financial penalties and reputational damage arising from breach 
of banking covenants
 – More of Group profit now earned in non-Sterling currencies 
 – Increased interest rate risk on higher forecast borrowings
 – The risk has increased because more of the Group’s profits are derived from non-Sterling currencies. Currency profits are not hedged. Currency hedging 
must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures. This requires the hedging of a 
substantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months (and in exceptional cases 24 months) ahead. Longer-term currency trends can 
only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
 – The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
 – We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and operate well within these covenants.
Pension deficit
To meet our pension obligations, we 
must adequately fund our pension plans. 
Our UK Defined Benefit pension plans are 
now closed to new members and future 
benefit accrual for existing members.
	
 – Excessive consumption of cash, limiting investment in operations
 – Unexpected variability in the Company’s financial results
 – There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item. The Group’s strong cash flows and 
access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately managed.
 – The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuary’s recommendations. 
We monitor and consider alternative means of reducing our pension risk in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders.
 – Although the pension deficit increased in 2014/15, the UK Defined Benefit pension plans were closed to future accrual on 1 December 2014 reducing future risk.
29 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Movements indicate management’s perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
 	
Increased risk

	No change to risk
 	
Decreased risk
Strategic 
objective
Risk description Movement Potential impact Mitigation
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Cyber security/Information 
Technology/Business interruption
Group and operational management 
depend on timely and reliable information 
from our software systems. We seek to 
ensure continuous availability, security 
and operation of those information 
systems. Cyber threats show an 
increasing trend.

 – Delay or impact on decision making through lack of availability 
of sound data 
 – Reduced service to customers due to poor information handling 
or interruption of business
 – Global threats to systems and critical information increase  
each year
 – Loss of commercially sensitive information
 – Intended and unintended actions of employees cause disruption
 – There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
 – We have a small central resource, Halma IT Services, to assist Group companies with strategic IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security policies are 
used across the Group.
 – An IT security committee was set up in December 2012 comprising Halma plc IT members and selected subsidiary IT managers.
 – Halma IT has been ISO 27001: 2013 certified for its information security management systems.
 – We carry out regular IT health checks. Comprehensive IT systems monitoring was introduced in 2013/14.
 – Cyber security is a regular Board agenda item.
 – We utilise external penetration testing and have completed the rollout of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes.
 – Business continuity plans are well advanced in each business unit.
 – High levels of integrity are expected from all Group employees. Education and awareness of cyber threats is an increasing focus.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Acquisitions
The identification and purchase of 
businesses which meet our demanding 
financial and growth criteria are an 
important part of our strategy for 
developing the Group, as is ensuring  
the new businesses are rapidly  
integrated into the Group.

 – Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high-quality businesses to 
meet our strategic growth target
 – Failure to deliver expected results resulting from poor 
acquisition selection 
 – Reduced financial performance arising from failure to integrate 
acquisitions into the Group 
 – Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to understand 
acquisition targets fully
 – The sector restructuring in April 2014 freed up additional resource to dedicate to M&A activities. Such resources remain under constant review.
 – We acquire businesses whose technology and markets we know well. Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing acquisitions 
in their business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported by central resources to search for opportunities. We employ detailed post-acquisition 
integration plans.
 – Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, 
legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
 – Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Laws and regulations 
Group operations are subject to 
wide-ranging laws and regulations 
including business conduct, employment, 
environmental and health and safety 
legislation. There is also exposure to 
product litigation and contractual risk.  
The laws and regulations we are exposed 
to as our businesses expand around the 
world increase each year.

 – Reputational damage arising from inadvertent non-compliance
 – Diversion of management resources resulting in lost opportunities 
 – Penalties arising from breach of laws and regulations
 – Loss of revenue and profit associated with contractual disputes 
 – The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality management resources and the strong focus 
on quality control over products and processes in each operating business help to protect us from product failure, litigation and contractual issues.
 – Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and our performance in this area is good. Health and Safety 
policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance 
compliance. Our well-established policies on bribery and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with best 
practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and externally, via appropriate clauses included in third-party agreements.
 – We carry comprehensive insurance against all standard categories of insurable risk. Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure 
to contractual liability.
 – The Group’s whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotline assist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
 – Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary 
to build a direct presence.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Succession planning and  
staff quality
Group performance is dependent on 
having high-quality leaders at all levels 
and an organisation allowing us to 
continue to grow through acquisition  
as well as driving organic growth.

 – Failure to recruit and to retain key staff leading to reduced 
innovation and progress in the business 
 – Unethical actions of staff causing reputational damage to  
the Group
 – Acquisition growth limited due to our organisation’s and leaders’ 
ability to absorb acquisitions effectively
 – International growth increasing risk and the need for high-quality  
local talent
 – Group development programmes enhance the skills of executives and middle managers needed in their current and future roles.
 – Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist high-quality hiring and development.
 – The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals with Group values.
 – The appointment of a Group Talent Director underpins our identification and development of Group executives.
 – Additional focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwide to better meet our markets’ needs and provide sufficient opportunities for 
advancement as well as clear succession planning.
 – Considerable time spent assessing our senior management talent and establishing better processes to improve our talent pipeline has advanced our 
succession planning and talent quality.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Research & Development and 
Intellectual Property strategy
New products are critical to our organic 
growth and underpin our ability to earn 
high margins and high returns over the 
long term.
Protection of our intellectual property 
builds competitive advantage by 
strengthening barriers-to-entry. Our 
intangible resources include patents, 
product approvals, technological 
know-how, branding and our workforce.

 – Loss of market share resulting from product obsolescence and 
failure to innovate to meet customer needs
 – Loss of market share resulting from a failure to protect key 
intellectual property
 – Loss of market share resulting from product quality issues
 – By devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating businesses, we both spread risk and ensure that the people best placed 
to service the customers’ needs are driving innovation.
 – New product development ‘best practice’ is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is tracked 
monthly. This ensures that the collective experience and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
 – Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that the Group’s significant projects are aligned 
to overall strategy.
 – Workforce quality and retention is a central objective. This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
 – Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
 – Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group, inter alia, via the Halma Innovation Awards.
30 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic 
objective
Risk description Movement Potential impact Mitigation
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Cyber security/Information 
Technology/Business interruption
Group and operational management 
depend on timely and reliable information 
from our software systems. We seek to 
ensure continuous availability, security 
and operation of those information 
systems. Cyber threats show an 
increasing trend.

 – Delay or impact on decision making through lack of availability 
of sound data 
 – Reduced service to customers due to poor information handling 
or interruption of business
 – Global threats to systems and critical information increase  
each year
 – Loss of commercially sensitive information
 – Intended and unintended actions of employees cause disruption
 – There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
 – We have a small central resource, Halma IT Services, to assist Group companies with strategic IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security policies are 
used across the Group.
 – An IT security committee was set up in December 2012 comprising Halma plc IT members and selected subsidiary IT managers.
 – Halma IT has been ISO 27001: 2013 certified for its information security management systems.
 – We carry out regular IT health checks. Comprehensive IT systems monitoring was introduced in 2013/14.
 – Cyber security is a regular Board agenda item.
 – We utilise external penetration testing and have completed the rollout of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes.
 – Business continuity plans are well advanced in each business unit.
 – High levels of integrity are expected from all Group employees. Education and awareness of cyber threats is an increasing focus.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Acquisitions
The identification and purchase of 
businesses which meet our demanding 
financial and growth criteria are an 
important part of our strategy for 
developing the Group, as is ensuring  
the new businesses are rapidly  
integrated into the Group.

 – Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high-quality businesses to 
meet our strategic growth target
 – Failure to deliver expected results resulting from poor 
acquisition selection 
 – Reduced financial performance arising from failure to integrate 
acquisitions into the Group 
 – Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to understand 
acquisition targets fully
 – The sector restructuring in April 2014 freed up additional resource to dedicate to M&A activities. Such resources remain under constant review.
 – We acquire businesses whose technology and markets we know well. Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing acquisitions 
in their business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported by central resources to search for opportunities. We employ detailed post-acquisition 
integration plans.
 – Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, 
legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
 – Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Laws and regulations 
Group operations are subject to 
wide-ranging laws and regulations 
including business conduct, employment, 
environmental and health and safety 
legislation. There is also exposure to 
product litigation and contractual risk.  
The laws and regulations we are exposed 
to as our businesses expand around the 
world increase each year.

 – Reputational damage arising from inadvertent non-compliance
 – Diversion of management resources resulting in lost opportunities 
 – Penalties arising from breach of laws and regulations
 – Loss of revenue and profit associated with contractual disputes 
 – The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality management resources and the strong focus 
on quality control over products and processes in each operating business help to protect us from product failure, litigation and contractual issues.
 – Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and our performance in this area is good. Health and Safety 
policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance 
compliance. Our well-established policies on bribery and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with best 
practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and externally, via appropriate clauses included in third-party agreements.
 – We carry comprehensive insurance against all standard categories of insurable risk. Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure 
to contractual liability.
 – The Group’s whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotline assist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
 – Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary 
to build a direct presence.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Succession planning and  
staff quality
Group performance is dependent on 
having high-quality leaders at all levels 
and an organisation allowing us to 
continue to grow through acquisition  
as well as driving organic growth.

 – Failure to recruit and to retain key staff leading to reduced 
innovation and progress in the business 
 – Unethical actions of staff causing reputational damage to  
the Group
 – Acquisition growth limited due to our organisation’s and leaders’ 
ability to absorb acquisitions effectively
 – International growth increasing risk and the need for high-quality  
local talent
 – Group development programmes enhance the skills of executives and middle managers needed in their current and future roles.
 – Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist high-quality hiring and development.
 – The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals with Group values.
 – The appointment of a Group Talent Director underpins our identification and development of Group executives.
 – Additional focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwide to better meet our markets’ needs and provide sufficient opportunities for 
advancement as well as clear succession planning.
 – Considerable time spent assessing our senior management talent and establishing better processes to improve our talent pipeline has advanced our 
succession planning and talent quality.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
Research & Development and 
Intellectual Property strategy
New products are critical to our organic 
growth and underpin our ability to earn 
high margins and high returns over the 
long term.
Protection of our intellectual property 
builds competitive advantage by 
strengthening barriers-to-entry. Our 
intangible resources include patents, 
product approvals, technological 
know-how, branding and our workforce.

 – Loss of market share resulting from product obsolescence and 
failure to innovate to meet customer needs
 – Loss of market share resulting from a failure to protect key 
intellectual property
 – Loss of market share resulting from product quality issues
 – By devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating businesses, we both spread risk and ensure that the people best placed 
to service the customers’ needs are driving innovation.
 – New product development ‘best practice’ is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is tracked 
monthly. This ensures that the collective experience and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
 – Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that the Group’s significant projects are aligned 
to overall strategy.
 – Workforce quality and retention is a central objective. This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
 – Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
 – Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group, inter alia, via the Halma Innovation Awards.
31 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Market trends and growth drivers
Long-term growth in our Process Safety markets is supported by 
three key drivers:
 – population growth resulting in rising energy demand 
 – increasing and more stringent global health, safety and 
environmental regulations and legislation
 – increasing development, complexity and geographic spread 
of energy resources and their safety requirements
The global process safety market is forecast to continue to grow. 
A key driver is aftermarket demand for replacement and upgrading 
of older safety systems to meet updated safety standards. Our 
commitment to developing new products designed to meet new 
standards assists our customers in maintaining compliance while 
minimising downtime and degradation of assets.
Due to the significant oil price fluctuation in the past year, many of 
the major players in the international oil market are facing exceptional 
short-term uncertainty. However, new energy industry projects have 
long lead times; despite the current global economic conditions, the 
world’s population continues to grow and demand for energy will 
continue to rise.
Global oil production continues to exceed demand, but demand is 
forecast to continue to grow during 2015. The major oil producers 
are indicating varying levels of capital expenditure reduction in new 
oil exploration activity. The impact on mid and downstream activity 
is less severe and there are significant regional variations regarding 
the extent of proposed cut backs. With the majority of our sales in 
the mid and downstream sectors, the underpin of increasing safety 
awareness and our strong regional presence in the USA, Middle East 
and Asia, we expect to maintain growth.
We are committed to developing products and technology 
platforms which improve the safety and reliability of industrial 
operations. Investment in new oil and gas extraction techniques 
and the delivery of conventional, unconventional and renewable 
energy resources has continued to support our sales growth. 
Throughout the world governments continue to impose stricter 
regulations to protect people and the environment from avoidable 
process system failures. We support regulatory development in 
our markets by having our staff on advisory bodies responsible 
for recommending legislative change.
Products which protect assets and people at work. Specialised
interlocks which safely control critical processes. Instruments which
detect flammable and hazardous gases. Explosion protection and
corrosion monitoring products.
Philippe Felten
Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety 
Record sales and profits were achieved in our Process Safety 
sector despite volatile market conditions resulting from the slide 
in global oil prices. We increased our global footprint with additional 
regional offices and sector-specific hubs to support collaboration 
and cooperation. Product development spend increased on the 
prior year to a new record level as we expanded our product 
portfolio to meet our twin aims of market and geographic 
diversification. The acquisition of RCS expanded our range of 
products and it has continued to perform well. Trading in the 
business met pre-acquisition targets.
Revenue % of Group
22% 
Profit % of Group
27% 
Performance
KPIs
Group  
target
Revenue growth
1
25.0%
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 9.1% >5%
Profit growth
1
 28.4%
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 14.0% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 28.3% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
3.4% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenue 159 127 126 122 103
Profit 45 35 32 29 24
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the 
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation 
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see Note 1 to the Accounts).
Sector Review 
Process Safety 
1
  See Note 1 to the Accounts.
32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Geographic trends
Underlying global growth in demand for energy, food, chemicals, 
water and metals continues to increase despite some regional 
variations due to macro-economic issues. The USA and Asia remain 
buoyant. The European market has returned to growth and the 
emerging market of South America has been a key contributor to our 
success in the last year. Economic factors have reduced demand in 
India and Australia and we anticipate that a return to growth in these 
areas will be a slow process.
While new offshore fields have been identified in North and 
South America, and Africa, the current oil price cycle is delaying 
their exploitation.
Governments worldwide are increasing programmes to eliminate 
bribery and corruption from process safety contracting. We adhere 
to strict Group and government guidelines to avoid projects we 
believe are subject to these unwanted practices.
Strategy
In the Process Safety sector, our strategy for growth focuses on:
 – geographic market diversification via shared regional hubs 
 – investment in new products to both diversify our markets and meet 
local market needs
 – acquisitions in adjacent markets
Our investment in new product development has increased again 
to a new record resulting in sales of products designed in the last 
three years maintaining a level of over 30% of total sales. New 
technology and shorter product lifecycles, coupled with industry-
leading quality and customer service, ensures that we maintain 
competitive advantage and improve customer value propositions. 
This results in sales growth ahead of market growth.
The global footprint of our Process Safety companies continues to 
expand; we now have 22 manufacturing sites across five continents. 
Regional sales and service centres have risen from 22 to 35 and we 
opened a new sector hub in Houston, USA during 2014 adding to 
our existing sector hubs in Brazil, UAE and Poland. We continue 
to decentralise marketing resources into these facilities to ensure that 
we rapidly identify local market opportunities and customer needs. 
Developing internal collaboration and alliances within the sector 
supports growth and we continue technology partnerships with 
external companies where they will help us meet our strategic 
product goals.
The acquisition of RCS, in the adjacent market of pipeline corrosion 
monitoring, expands our portfolio of critical safety products sold into 
the energy and utility markets to protect life and operational assets.
Performance 
Process Safety grew sales by 25% to £159m (2014: £127m) and 
profit
1
 by 28% to £45m (2014: £35m). As a consequence of strong 
product margins and good operational management, return on 
sales increased to 28.3% (2014: 27 .5%). New product introductions 
contributed to both margin expansion and revenue growth through 
diversification into new application niches.
We achieved strong revenue growth in the USA, which was mostly 
organic, and in Asia Pacific, Middle East and South America mainly 
due to the contribution from the RCS acquisition. The UK increased 
only marginally as a result of reduced North Sea investment. 
Two sector companies relocated to new factories during 2014/15 and 
an additional two undertook significant facility expansion, all without 
disruption to supply performance. These investments ensured that 
we maintained the quality and service expected by our customers.
Outlook
The long-term growth prospects in the Process Safety sector remain 
positive as we continue geographic and product expansion. Our 
progress in the food, pharmaceutical and chemical process markets 
will continue to allows us to counter a short-term slowdown in the oil 
and gas market. In the medium term these markets will continue to 
be a major contributor to our ongoing success. Specialist markets 
in railway infrastructure and logistics are expanding in line with our 
previous plans.
We continue to search for acquisitions, particularly in non-intrusive 
corrosion monitoring, hazardous area maintenance and machinery 
safe access control.
33 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public spaces 
and commercial buildings. Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection systems, 
security sensors and audible/visual warning devices. Sensors used on 
automatic doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Nigel Trodd
Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety
The Infrastructure Safety sector delivered strong revenue and 
profit growth in 2014/15. We achieved good results in both recently 
acquired and established businesses. Advanced Electronics was 
acquired in May 2014 to broaden our fire product portfolio and 
further strengthen Halma’s position in the global fire systems market.
Performance
KPIs
Group  
target
Revenue growth
1
6.3%
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 5.1% >5%
Profit growth
1
 12.5%
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 12.3% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 21.4% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
5.2% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2015 2014  2013
5
 2012 2011
Revenue 234 220 205 204 197
Profit 50 44 42 39 39
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the 
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation 
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items and the 
effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the Defined Benefit pension plan (net of 
associated costs) (see Note 1 to the Accounts).
5
  Profit restated for the effects of adopting IAS 19 (revised) in 2013/14 (see Accounting 
Policies note).
Market trends and growth drivers
Increasing health and safety regulation remains the primary driver in 
our Infrastructure Safety sector. Rising infrastructure investment is 
also driven by: 
 – population ageing, rising safety awareness, continuing global trend 
of urbanisation and population growth
 – rising demand in emerging markets where existing infrastructure 
requires modernisation and rapid economic growth requires high 
infrastructure investment
 – growing need for ‘connectivity’ with rising demand for wireless 
technologies alongside automation in ‘smart’ buildings
Governments throughout the world continue to implement 
increasingly stringent health and safety regulations. In mature 
markets, safety standards are constantly updated and compliance 
becomes increasingly demanding for our customers. New European 
fire regulations, for example, require fire detection devices to be totally 
compatible with all other components of a fire alarm system. This 
ensures maximum protection from fire risk in modern buildings 
while minimising disruption from false alarms. Developing markets 
increasingly adopt and enforce globally-recognised safety standards 
which protect assets and eliminate hazards to people in domestic, 
public and industrial environments.
Increasing urbanisation, especially in Asia, drives demand for 
high-rise properties with elevators. Strengthened health and 
safety legislation in Europe requires elevators to be upgraded 
with emergency communication devices.
The global elevator market is forecast to continue to grow with the 
principal growth in Asia, where, as well as ongoing infrastructure 
development, we see increasing elevator density due to use in low 
and mid-rise buildings. This trend is partly due to population ageing 
and demand for higher living standards. With a 2013 global installed 
elevator base of 12m units, tight regulation of elevator maintenance 
further stimulates demand for our elevator safety products.
The world market for pedestrian automatic door controls is driven 
by regulation; safety standards continue to evolve in all regions. 
Introduced in 2013, the first pan-European safety regulations that 
protect users of power-operated pedestrian doors from hazards have 
reached mature implementation in Western Europe. Implementation 
is still underway in the rest of Europe. 
Demand for safety sensors in the industrial door market is growing, 
for both door activation and safeguarding the area around a door 
to prevent crushing injuries. New European standards are due in 
2015/16. In the Americas we have seen increasing use of high 
performance industrial security doors for parking and automotive 
markets as well as for mining and heavy industrial applications.
The trend of convergence of building automation and information 
technology in smart buildings drives growth of our wireless 
communications intrusion detection security products. Product 
certifications remain important for intrusion detection systems in 
Europe, particularly those with police-response remote monitoring.
Geographic trends
The global fire protection systems market is forecast to grow with 
Asia leading the way driven by urbanisation and increasing safety 
requirements. In the USA residential fire protection is increasingly 
Revenue % of Group
32% 
Profit % of Group
30% 
Sector Review 
Infrastructure Safety 
1
  See Note 1 to the Accounts.
34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 based on wireless detectors as home automation and security 
systems including smoke detection grow in popularity.
The global elevator market is growing strongly and is forecast to 
continue to rise by about 7% per year at least until 2017 . China 
remains the principal growth market for elevator products. Of the 
2013 elevator global market estimate of €54bn, China accounted 
for 26% of the sales value, and 67% of the new elevator installations. 
Asia as a whole accounts for 78% of new installations. India is 
forecast to become the next big elevator and escalator growth 
market and increasing urbanisation could see new installations rise 
to 100,000 units per year by 2018. Elevator installations in Europe 
and the Americas remained flat, though mild growth in construction 
starts are expected in the next couple of years. Our focus in these 
territories remains in elevator upgrades and maintenance.
Our automatic door control products continued to penetrate more 
geographic markets in Eastern and Northern Europe, South America, 
Canada, Australia, Japan, India and the Middle East. 
Despite a growing focus on safety in China, implementation of 
safety regulations for automatic pedestrian doors is slow. In the 
transportation door controls niche, we saw rising safety awareness 
(not regulation), especially in the subway train Platform Screen Doors 
market. Japan is considering adopting the latest European automatic 
door safety regulations as national industry standards by 2017 . This 
could open a considerable new door safety control market. 
We achieved strong sales growth of intrusion detection products 
outside our traditional UK and Western European markets, with 
good progress in South Africa, the Middle East and China. We 
significantly improved UK market share in 2014/15.
Strategy
New market penetration is a primary growth strategy in the 
Infrastructure Safety sector, particularly in high infrastructure 
investment territories such as Russia and Eastern Europe, ASEAN 
nations and Brazil.
In our fire products sub-sector, we continue a strategy of growth 
through international expansion, new products, new detection 
technologies and acquisitions. In 2014/15 we strengthened our fire 
sales presence in both India and China and we will open an ASEAN 
sales office in Singapore in 2015. We have changed strategy in China 
to focus on premium fire products. 
Over 70% of our elevator product sales are door safety light 
curtain detectors but increasing competition is putting pressure on 
margins. We will continue to develop premium products for upgrade 
and refurbishment alongside economy ranges for the new installation 
market. The global market for in-car elevator telephones is estimated 
to be the same size as the light curtain market; the in-car display 
market is at least twice the size. To deliver long-term growth, we will 
invest in development of our telephone and display business. Elevator 
emergency telephone and display markets are fragmented and 
present an opportunity for consolidation, potentially via acquisition. 
Our strategy for automatic door sensor growth focuses on expanding 
outside our established pedestrian and industrial door sectors into 
new applications such as detecting and counting flows of people 
and vehicles. 
In Western Europe, we anticipate increasing adoption of smart 
security and building automation systems. During 2014/15 we 
increased investment in European sales resources for intrusion 
detection alarm systems on the back of new product approvals. 
Performance 
Revenue growth of 6% was in line with expectations while sector 
profit
1
 growth was 6% higher than revenue growth as reported and 
7% ahead at constant currency. We continue to exceed Group targets 
on Return on Capital Employed and cash generation.
Return on Sales increased to 21.4%, due primarily to successful new 
product launches and an effective balance between investment and 
cost control to maintain strong margins.
Revenue in all major markets increased during the year, with 23% 
growth in the UK and 44% in Africa and the Middle East. In the USA, 
excluding the Monitor disposal, we achieved 5% growth and this 
should continue as home security OEMs source increasingly from 
Apollo America. Our strategy of increasing investment in locally 
based sales and technical resources continues to pay dividends.
The Advanced Electronics business, acquired in 2014, has 
strengthened our position to offer small fire systems in selected 
markets and has broadened our understanding of fire control 
panels globally. We will continue to leverage the synergies we 
have experienced with the Advanced teams on board.
We sold Monitor Elevator Products, a New York-based manufacturer 
of elevator control panels to another industry player, Innovation 
Industries, in May 2014. Monitor did not have the international growth 
potential we believed was necessary to maintain growth and high 
returns in the medium term.
We continued the integration and reorganisation of our four elevator 
companies into a single business unit. New in-elevator emergency 
telephone products and in-car displays extended penetration of these 
niche markets. Trading in the elevator door sensor market has been 
challenging, with increasing competition from Asian light curtain 
manufacturers. Despite this, we maintained high elevator business 
Return on Sales by focusing on higher margin telephone and 
display products.
In the past year we strengthened our global leadership of the 
pedestrian and industrial high speed door sensors markets and 
increased market share in public transportation and security.
Outlook
Continued growth is anticipated due to rising demand driven by the 
demographic trends of population ageing and urbanisation, increasing 
regulatory pressure, technology advances and localised manufacture.
We expect to see revenue growth remaining ahead of market 
growth rates in most of our niches. This will be driven by geographic 
and market expansion, the launch of new products into established 
channels and by acquisition. Developing economies are an exciting 
market for all Infrastructure Safety businesses as buildings and 
homes become increasingly more complex and sophisticated.
The acquisition pipeline for the sector is very promising and we aim 
to add complementary businesses during the coming years.
35 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Adam Meyers
Sector Chief Executive, Medical
The Medical sector again delivered record revenue and profit 
with strong contributions both from recent acquisitions and 
long-established businesses. Profit performance was very strong 
and constant currency revenue growth was above Group target. 
Returns remain high and continue well above Group targets. 
The Medical sector set a new Return on Sales record and 
cash generation remained strong.
Continued investment in innovative technology and products is 
increasing the proportion of sector revenue from products launched 
in the last three years. Our Medical business acquisition pipeline is 
robust and we continue to focus on acquiring in this sector. In May 
2015 we acquired VAS LLC which will operate within Diba Industries 
and brings in important new component technology.
Performance
KPIs
Group  
target
Revenue growth
1
3.8%
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 5.9% >5%
Profit growth
1
 8.5%
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) 9.6% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 26.8% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
4.0% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenue 169 163 136 100 82
Profit 45 42 36 26 20
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the 
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation 
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector 
revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items (see 
Note 1 to the Accounts).
Market trends and growth drivers
The Medical sector growth driver of increasing demand for healthcare 
is underpinned by:
 – worldwide population ageing and increasing life expectancy
 – increasing prevalence of diabetes, obesity and hypertension
 – increasing healthcare access in developing economies
 – new medical diagnostic technologies 
 – new or improved surgical and pharmaceutical therapies
The proportion of the global population aged over 60 continues to 
rise steadily and drives demand for healthcare, both in developed and 
developing geographies. Population ageing is a key driver for our 
ophthalmology and hypertension management businesses because 
eyesight problems and high blood pressure are both age-related. 
For example, one in three American adults has high blood 
pressure which causes, or leads to, over 2.4 million American 
deaths annually. Rising obesity increases both hypertension-related 
illness and diabetes-related eye disorders. In China, people suffering 
from hypertension increased by 34% between 2002 and 2010, but 
less than 20% of those affected were controlling their condition. 
We expect continued growth in spending on hypertension 
management instruments.
The global growth rate for medical devices is expected to be 4% 
to 5% in the near term with developing economies offering slightly 
stronger growth. Within the overall medical market, cataract 
operations, one of the most frequent surgical procedures throughout 
the world and a strong focus of our ophthalmic surgery companies, 
are growing annually at about 5%. Eye surgeons continue to switch 
to the type of single-use instruments we make so our growth rate 
should continue to outpace the procedure growth rate. 
Increasing healthcare access and ageing populations are also 
strong drivers in the laboratory automation market, where demand is 
forecast to rise annually by 6% through 2017 , underpinning demand 
for our critical fluidic components. Ageing populations require higher 
level medical testing and laboratories need faster throughput and 
more specialised equipment. North America and Europe are the 
largest laboratory automation markets while growth in Asia is 
expected to outpace all other geographies, with forecast annual 
growth of over 8%. One of the fastest growing laboratory automation 
segments is molecular diagnostics (tests on patients’ genetic codes), 
forecast to grow worldwide by 1 1% annually through 2019.
The global medical product regulatory environment continues 
to get tougher – higher registration costs, increasing testing and 
more audits. We continue to invest in personnel to address these 
market pressures including hiring local regulatory affairs staff in 
key territories. Increasingly complex medical device registration 
requirements, combined with current macro-economic conditions, 
places significantly more value on Halma’s well-established Medical 
Revenue % of Group
23% 
Profit % of Group
27% 
Sector Review 
Medical 
1
  See Note 1 to the Accounts.
Products used to improve personal and public health. Devices used to 
assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications. 
Fluidic components such as pumps, probes, valves and connectors used 
by medical diagnostic OEMs.
36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 sector channels and market access. Each year we add staff in our 
Asian and South American healthcare markets, particularly in China, 
India, Brazil and the Middle East. 
Geographic trends
Continued expansion of the global medical device market provides 
opportunity for sustained revenue growth but we also are prepared 
for market variation due to local economic conditions, government 
spending programmes and currency fluctuations. 
US healthcare spending is forecast to continue to grow above 4% 
for the next few years. Over 16 million Americans have gained health 
insurance since the Affordable Care Act became law in 2010. This 
has begun to raise patient flows but has yet to drive increased market 
revenue, so the US market is uncertain. The market for single-use 
surgical devices in America is set to continue to grow, but capital 
equipment sales may grow more slowly until increased patient flow 
raises medical revenues or economic growth accelerates.
The US healthcare market was stronger than anticipated in the 
past year and may continue to compensate for a weaker European 
market. Recent Euro exchange weakness should aid US market 
penetration for our European businesses, but our US and Swiss 
businesses will face higher price pressure when selling into Europe.
The major European economies should see medical device demand 
grow between 2% and 6% over the next few years. However, 
stagnant economies and continued austerity measures are expected 
to challenge sales growth elsewhere in Europe. Our non-Euro Zone 
companies expect increased price pressure due to exchange rates.
While growth in Asia, and in particular China, may be slowing, 
these markets are still expected to grow faster than other regions. 
Our Chinese investment continues with more product registrations, 
more R&D engineers and development of localised products. 
About 400,000 Chinese people become blind from cataracts each 
year but China has the lowest cataract surgery rate in Asia. China 
will see increasing rates of cataract surgery as access is improved, 
particularly in rural areas, and as more surgeons are trained to 
perform this surgery. 
A third of China’s adult population, about 330 million people, 
have high blood pressure with prevalence increasing particularly 
among the young and rural populations. Raised awareness and 
programmes to combat hypertension will increase demand for 
our diagnostic devices. 
Other territories, such as South and Latin America, the Middle 
East and Africa are forecast to grow annually by 7% to 8% for the 
next few years. Medical sector companies are increasing sales and 
marketing collaboration here and in particular we are increasing the 
use of our Brazil Sector hub.
Strategy
Medical sector strategy is to increase growth organically and via 
acquisition by:
 – increasing collaboration and shared resources to drive expansion 
and joint product development 
 – increasing R&D investment to broaden product lines and 
commercialise innovative new products
 – further geographic penetration
 – improving talent and increasing diversity
 – expansion into adjacent market niches
Our Medical sector companies are increasing collaboration 
as they have multi-company sales and marketing teams in 
China, India and the Middle East and are looking to add parts 
of Europe and South America to the mix in 2015/16. As a result, 
a new collaboratively-developed product is scheduled for launch 
in our hypertension management niche and we have appointed 
a ‘President of Ophthalmology, Greater China’ to assist our Medical 
sector companies with growth in China. 
R&D investment will rise to capitalise on our competitive 
advantage from strong sales channels in niche markets and 
excellent customer relationships. Medical sector R&D spend as a 
percentage of sales has historically been below the group target 
as recent acquisitions typically spent less on R&D than we did as a 
sector. This is being built up as we increase investment in our newer 
businesses and continue to pursue product development activities 
in our long standing businesses. 
Medical sector R&D focuses on high quality components and 
instrumentation that will be readily accepted by our conservative 
customer base. However, local development and manufacture 
in emerging markets to satisfy local customer needs better is 
increasingly important and is a key strategic priority.
Acquisition of a small Swiss ophthalmic component producer in 
May 2014 secured important manufacturing IP and the purchase 
of VAS LLC in May 2015 adds important component technology. 
We still seek to acquire value-enhancing healthcare businesses 
within existing and adjacent niches and we have focused more 
resources on achieving this objective.
Performance
The Medical sector grew revenue by 4% to £169m (2014: £163m) and 
profit
1
 by 9% to £45m (2014: £42m). This was virtually all organic as we 
only made one small acquisition in 2014/15. Organic revenue growth 
at constant currency was 6% and organic constant currency profit 
growth was 10%, both above Group targets.
Return on Sales improved to 26.8%, a new Medical sector record. 
Margin improvement is due to improved ratios at recent acquisitions, 
cost reductions and overhead control. 
Currency translation had an adverse impact in 2014/15. If exchange 
rates remain at current levels we expect an opposite impact in 2015/16 
due to reversal of the relative strength of the US Dollar and Swiss Franc 
against Sterling.
Outlook
Ageing populations in both developed and developing economies, 
increasing access and higher demand for healthcare in the developing 
world, and increasing prevalence of hypertension, diabetes and obesity 
globally, create a favourable environment of increasing demand for our 
high quality medical components and instrumentation.
We expect our Medical businesses to outperform the market in the 
medium term driven by enhanced distribution in export markets, new 
products and acquisitions. 
We expect growth to vary across territories and market niches in 
developed markets due to currency volatility, government austerity 
and spending controls. We still see the strong short-term growth 
opportunities in developing markets, especially Asia and the Middle 
East with Latin and South America. We seek to acquire value-
enhancing businesses in the healthcare market and our pipeline 
remains very active.
37 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Market trends and growth drivers
Our products monitor and treat water, air and food. They enable 
the development and manufacture of new products that improve 
our health. We operate in sustained growth markets that are 
underpinned by four key drivers:
 – rising demand for basic resources such as energy and water
 – increasing environmental monitoring and regulation
 – growing demand for healthcare
 – scientific advances transferring into new industries
 
Today, 1.8 billion people drink faecally contaminated water and an 
even greater number drink water that is unsanitary. Approximately 
3.5 million people die each year due to inadequate water supply, 
sanitation and hygiene. 
According to the UN, by 2025 two thirds of the world’s population 
could live under water stress conditions as demands are placed on 
water usage by agriculture, manufacturing, energy production and 
domestic usage. By 2050 global water withdrawals are expected 
to increase by 55%.
These trends and forecasts continue to drive regulation and 
enforcement. Some of the greatest improvements have been 
made in water quality and environmental monitoring in China 
and other developing countries. Here we see increasing demand 
for our pollution monitoring equipment and we have developed 
products to meet the specific needs of these markets. 
There are also significant opportunities in new markets as our 
technologies developed for scientific applications are used in 
industrial settings for product improvement and quality control. 
Increasing demand for improved food safety has brought use 
of our spectroscopy products into food processing and even 
crop management. 
Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental 
markets. Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning 
products. Products to monitor water networks, UV technology for disinfecting 
water, and water quality testing products.
Revenue % of Group
23% 
Profit % of Group
16% 
Chuck Dubois
Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis 
This was a year of significant change for the Environmental & 
Analysis sector with several restructuring projects completed. 
Facilities were combined and businesses rationalised to focus 
on those areas of the market that are best poised for growth in 
the coming years. In addition, we established a stand-alone 
business in China to better pursue that geographic market. While 
the markets were stable or growing for the most part, we did have 
some headwind in the UK water market, as well as being impacted 
by some of the turmoil in the Middle East. We achieved strong 
growth in Asia. 
With the restructuring largely behind us, as evidenced by the 
improvements in the second half of the year, we are in a strong 
position for growth in FY16. 
Performance
KPIs
Group  
target
Revenue growth
1
(1.3)%
Organic revenue growth
1
 (constant currency) 0.4% >5%
Profit growth
1
 (13.7)%
Organic profit growth
1
 (constant currency) (12.1)% >5%
Return on Sales
2
 16.7% >18%
R&D % of Revenue
3
6.3% >4%
Contribution to Group
£m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenue 164 167 152 154 136
Profit 27 32 30 32 26
1
  Sector revenue and adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense are compared to the 
equivalent prior year figures.
2
  Return on Sales is defined as adjusted
4
 sector profit before finance expense and taxation 
expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
3
  Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue. 
4
  Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items  
(see Note 1 to the Accounts).
Sector Review 
Environmental & Analysis 
1
 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The shipping industry is undergoing changes to its monitoring and 
treatment practices. Ship stack emissions monitoring has begun. 
Pollution and concerns over invasive species are key drivers behind 
the International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) Ballast Water 
Management initiative. 
Manufacture of new technologies, such as LED lighting, requires 
new levels of quality control, which can be met by our products. 
Our technology is also used to ensure the quality of pharmaceuticals, 
particularly as manufacturing is increasingly outsourced. 
Advances in communication technologies which allow remote 
monitoring data collection are creating new markets for our sensors 
and data-loggers used to monitor water distribution networks.
Geographic trends
This sector sells into a significant number of market niches. While 
growth rates in the western economies are modest, our niche 
markets are expected to expand at rates between 4% and 7%. We 
see opportunities for US market growth and improved market share 
in the UK and Europe. In particular, the deregulation of the UK water 
market is beginning to provide new opportunities. We are putting 
resources in place to take advantage of opportunities in Europe for 
our products that support manufacturing.
China offers the greatest growth opportunity for our Environmental 
& Analysis businesses geographically. We continue to invest in China 
and now have over 80 employees there. We expect continued growth 
in the coming year as we take full advantage of our expanded 
R&D and production capabilities. 
We have revamped some product lines that assist water quality 
testing by NGOs, particularly in Africa and South America, and 
we are seeing increased demand for these products.
Strategy
Our organic profit growth strategy centres on R&D investment in 
new product development, geographic expansion (with a strong 
focus on Asia) and diversification of existing technologies into 
adjacent and growing regulated markets.
R&D is focused on applications that have long-term drivers and 
defensible market positions. More new products are the result 
of collaboration between companies, and one company now 
has established development projects with six other companies 
in the sector. 
An increasing number of our companies manufacture in China. 
Our Chinese markets continue to improve as regulations enacted 
in the past few years are increasingly enforced. China’s advance 
into more technological manufacturing also benefits our quality 
and assurance products. 
Our strategy within core geographies, such as the USA and Europe, 
is to grow by finding new applications for our existing technologies. 
For example, our spectrometers are being used on drones to 
monitor crop development, enabling farmers to optimise 
fertilisation and irrigation. 
Performance 
Revenue declined by 1% to £164m (2014: £167m) and profit
1
 fell by 
14% to £27m (2014: £32m). At constant currency, organic revenue 
was marginally positive and profit was down 12%. Return on Sales 
was 16.7% (2014: 19. 1%). 
The downturn was partly due to business restructuring. The cost 
of consolidation of our optical coatings businesses were roughly within 
budget (less than £1m), but ramp-up and customer qualifications took 
longer and were much more expensive than anticipated. We saw 
improvement in the second half of the year and, having further 
strengthened the management team, we have positioned this 
business for further progress in 2015/16.
The establishment of Ocean Optics Asia was an important step 
in our overall strategy, and met performance expectations. However, in 
our other spectroscopy businesses, some significant OEM customers 
had over-purchased in 2013, resulting in diminished orders this year. 
These customers are now back on track and should drive growth in 
the coming year.
We restructured our UV water treatment businesses and rationalised 
some product lines. Sensing products developed by this group have 
been moved to other group companies with greater market potential 
for these products. 
Our water quality testing business continued to grow. Uptake of 
our products in emerging markets was brisk and should remain 
that way through the coming year. Overall, we enter 2015/16 with 
a much stronger and focused approach, and anticipate greater 
year-on-year growth. 
Our gas conditioning businesses performed well due to the 
introduction of new products designed for emerging markets and 
continuing penetration of our existing markets. We expect these 
businesses to continue to grow based on these initiatives in the 
medium term. 
Outlook
2015/16 should deliver solid growth as we capitalise on the business 
restructuring changes made over the last two years. The improved 
sector performance in the second half of 2014/15 bears this out. New 
products introduced towards the end of last year are having a positive 
impact and we expect to see markets with difficult trading conditions 
return to growth. These include the UK water utilities, which started 
a new five-year investment cycle in 2015. We expect this to have a 
positive impact on our water monitoring business in the second 
half of 2015/16 onwards.
Many new products have been launched in this sector in the last year. 
The proportion of sector revenue due to sales of products introduced 
in the last three years improved significantly in 2014/15 and we expect 
this to increase again in the coming year.
39 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Sustaining growth by 
developing talent
Jennifer Ward 
Group Talent Director
It is vital that we develop and grow our people’s 
capabilities to match Halma’s growth.
We are committed to identifying and developing 
the leaders that will ensure our success as our 
business continues to change and grow.
Halma’s innovative and entrepreneurial operating companies require that their 
people not only deliver what is required for success today, but can also scale 
with the pace of growth to deliver in the future. This is amidst an ever changing, 
increasingly global and complex environment. We are committed to attracting 
and developing highly talented individuals and promoting a culture in which 
they can thrive.
In the past year we have made great progress in defining our talent and leadership 
requirements for the future, understanding more deeply our capabilities and 
development needs and planning for how to close any gaps. Of particular note 
this year, we accelerated our efforts to foster a more diverse and inclusive culture.
40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Corporate Responsibility
The Environment
We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for 
addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and 
for developing products that protect the environment and improve 
safety at work and in public places.
Our products
Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring 
and improving the environment. Halma brands lead the world in 
a number of technologies which help to minimise environmental 
damage. Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage 
detection and wireless monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water 
and effluent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing. We 
promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to 
use dangerous chemicals, as well as making products that minimise 
the waste of clean water.
Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring 
and monitoring environmental changes and controlling the damaging 
impact of industrial activities is long term. We are the major world 
supplier in several of these areas.
Our impact
The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared 
to manufacturers in other sectors. Our manufacturing model is 
decentralised permitting our operations to be located close to their 
customers. Manufacturing operations are established across the 
world for this very reason rather than to save labour costs. The ethos 
of being close to our customers reflects the importance we place on 
the quality of our products and the service levels we provide to our 
customers. It also makes our operations more flexible and responsive 
to their markets and customers. With operations spread around the 
globe, our supplier base is understandably fragmented. Therefore, 
responsibility for vetting and managing suppliers is devolved to local 
management while meeting the Group’s ethical standards.
Environmental Management System (EMS)
We are committed to developing and implementing an EMS 
throughout the Group to measure, control and reduce our 
environmental impacts. We have developed performance indicators 
that assist local management in implementing the policy and 
ultimately developing an EMS. The requirement for an EMS and the 
related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which 
represent approximately 37% of Group production facilities in terms 
of external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the 
international environmental accreditation, where warranted. The 
requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of 
the Group in the medium term. In terms of revenue, currently 25% 
(2014: 18%) of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
Group companies are also encouraged to improve energy efficiency, 
to reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of materials in 
order to minimise their environmental impact. 
The Group has identified its key environmental impacts as 
emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption, and 
waste production. We established baseline data for these impacts in 
2004/05 and set targets for reductions against the baseline on a rolling 
three year cycle. We support innovation and investment that drives 
environmental performance. This is illustrated by the solar panel 
installations undertaken at our subsidiaries Apollo and Elfab. Apollo 
undertook a £250,000 solar panel installation in 2013/14 which has 
reduced their environmental impact, with an expected total saving of 
3,000 tonnes of carbon over a 25-year period. In addition, Elfab have 
increased the amount of renewable energy generated on site with the 
introduction of a second solar panel installation and also have an 
active rain harvesting programme on site which is reducing 
consumption of mains water.
Commitment to  
Corporate Responsibility
Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide 
range of products that protect and improve the quality of life for 
people worldwide. This report focuses on areas of progress and 
our performance for all areas of corporate responsibility which 
are considered to be material by our stakeholders and are also 
important to the success of our business. Halma has developed 
meaningful key performance indicators (KPIs) that reflect the 
importance the Group places on corporate responsibility and 
enable the Board to monitor the Group’s progress in meeting its 
objectives and responsibilities in these areas. Further details are 
given on pages 25 and 43.
These areas of emphasis include health and safety, employee 
engagement and development, human rights and ethics, corporate 
responsibility and sustainability. Safety is critical to the Group and is 
a major priority. We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the 
health and safety of our own employees while at work and operate 
so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for 
employees, visitors and the public. Our policy is to manage our 
activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks 
to health and safety and the environment. Halma has an excellent 
health and safety record and a culture of safety is deeply 
embedded within the Group. 
Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment 
and Customer Satisfaction. These core values have been 
selected following extensive surveying of employees across the 
Group. Our culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability. 
We encourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with 
fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners. 
We recognise that our employees determine our success 
and therefore continue to invest in and encourage their 
development more and more each year, not only with a suite 
of Halma development programmes, but also through clear 
leadership and decisive action. By appointing our Group Talent 
Director last year, we are focusing on our teams and ensuring 
we have the approach and skills required to succeed so that 
the Group is better placed to meet the challenges of the future.
We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in 
common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental 
impact. Our strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing 
processes and to operate close to our end markets in terms of 
geography, so the environmental impact of our operations is 
relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors. We also 
recognise that we can improve our own environmental performance 
and so resources are deployed to actively reduce our own carbon 
footprint. Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index 
since its establishment in July 2001.
42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
48
36**
51*
39
42
43
46
Carbon Footprint
The Group’s policy on carbon is published on our website and has 
been distributed and explained to all Halma business units. A senior 
executive in each of our higher impact business units is responsible 
for implementing the carbon policy at local level. Our Finance Director, 
Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and 
monitoring the policy.
We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint. Reduction of the 
Group’s carbon footprint has received increased attention since 2007 
with the initial objective of a 10% reduction in the Group’s total carbon 
emissions relative to revenues over three years to March 2010. We 
have worked hard to reduce the energy impact of our facilities and 
achieved that target for the last period from 2010 to 2013. Whilst we 
recognise that reduction by another 10% would be challenging for the 
third period, we have set ourselves the same target to March 2016 
and are working hard to achieve this. We are pleased to report that 
we are still on course to meet our three-year target. 
From April 2010, we have worked with providers of energy efficiency 
and carbon reduction solutions to ensure compliance with the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC) 
which is the UK’s mandatory energy saving scheme administered by 
the Environment Agency. We are in full compliance with the CRC 
requirements. All major UK sites have received an energy survey and 
set an action plan for improved energy usage. We are well positioned 
to comply with the new Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) 
regulations ahead of the December 2015 compliance deadline. The 
Group’s environmental performance will continue to be reported both 
in the Annual Report and Accounts and on our website.
The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although 
we do own a number of company cars. From May 2007 , we 
implemented a cap on permissible CO
2 emissions of all UK company 
vehicles and have extended an equivalent requirement to the USA 
and Europe. Limits are usually lowered each year so as to reduce 
our vehicles’ environmental impact. We have taken the decision to 
maintain the same limits for company vehicles as last year. We will 
keep this under review for future years.
We have stepped up our activities internationally to comply with the 
new mandatory carbon reporting requirements which UK public 
listed companies are subject to under the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulation 2008 
as amended in August 2013. 
* Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013/14 figure has 
been restated to include Well to Tank (WTT) emissions and Radiative 
Forcing on air travel. It is not required to restate years prior to 2013/14 
due to the methodological changes. 
** The 2014/15 figure has also been calculated on the same basis as prior 
years (excluding Well to Tank (WTT) emissions and Radiative Forcing 
on air travel) to allow for a direct comparison over the longer time scale. 
Halma’s carbon policy was first approved by the Board in 2007 . In 2013 
the policy target was reviewed and continues to call for a 10% reduction 
in the carbon footprint every three years. 
We have made good progress this year towards achieving 10% relative 
reduction in emissions over the three years to 2016 and the Group 
Carbon Policy reinforces the focus on our CO 2 emissions. There is good 
accountability for monitoring and control of CO 2 emissions at local level.
CO
2
e emissions reduction
14% 
Performance 
reduction over 2 years to 2015
>10% 
Target
reduction over 3 years to 2016
CO
2
e emissions (tonnes/£m of revenue)
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Reporting
We continue to work with our consultants to better monitor our environmental performance and future external reporting requirements. 
The Group is committed to examining the establishment of ‘green’ procurement policies and increasing our use of recycled materials.
GHG Emissions data for the period 29 March 2014 to 28 March 2015
2014/15  
CO 2e
 
emission 
global tonnes
2013/14*
CO 2e emission
global tonnes
Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,348 4,199
Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 16,247 15,960
Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT (Well to Tank) 14,022 14,567
Total gross emissions 34,617 34,726
Intensity measure of tonnes of CO 2e gross emissions per £m revenue 47.7 51.3
Note 
*  Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013/14 figure has been restated to include Well to Tank (WTT) emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel. It is not required to restate years prior 
to 2013/14 due to the methodological changes.
43 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Corporate Responsibility continued
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations for the reporting period 29 March 2014 to 
28 March 2015.
We have employed the Operation Control definition to outline 
our carbon footprint boundary; included within that boundary are 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing sites and offices 
which we own and operate. Excluded from our footprint boundary 
are emissions from manufacturing sites and offices which we do 
not own and control, and emissions considered non-material by 
the business. We have reported on emissions from Scope 1 and 2 
emissions sources with some Scope 3 emissions sources included 
(business air travel for all years, and Well to Tank emissions for 
2013/14 and 2014/15).
We have also used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition) and guidance provided by UK’s 
Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra) on voluntary 
and mandatory carbon reporting. Emission factors were used from 
UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 
2013 and 2014. 
Health and Safety
Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range 
of products that protect and improve the quality of life for people 
worldwide. Therefore, safety is critical to the Group and is a major 
priority for management and to demonstrate the Group’s added 
emphasis on health and safety, the Board has endorsed the inclusion 
of the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) as one of our non-
financial KPIs on page 25. 
The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary 
or unacceptable risks to health and safety to our employees in the 
workplace or to the public as a result of our activities. The policy is 
understood by all Group companies and was reinforced in 2010/1 1 
through improved guidance and reporting following a comprehensive 
review led by an external expert. 
Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture of 
safety is deeply embedded within the Group. To ensure each Group 
company has appropriately embedded the updated Health and 
Safety procedures in their business, independent Health and Safety 
reviews were performed in each operating company in 2012/13. 
These reviews were conducted with a view to ensuring a consistent 
approach in quality of reporting, internal processes, integration in 
operations, appropriateness of company policies, culture of Health 
and Safety and also as a means of identifying any patterns or 
underlying causes of reported incidents. We have continued to 
actively promote our safety culture throughout the year using the 
outputs from these reviews. As a result, reporting of Health and 
Safety incidents and corrective action where needed has been 
given an even higher profile. These were all contributory factors in 
the group-wide reduction in the number of days lost due to specified 
major injury accidents and reportable work-related injuries in 2013/14. 
Unfortunately the Health and Safety performance this year reversed 
the position achieved last year and we have reviewed the incidents 
contributing to this but there are no specific underlying trends or 
causes which should cause concern or require special attention. 
Halma commences another cycle of independent Health and Safety 
reviews in mid-2015 as a continuation of the good practice and 
improvements driven by the 2012/13 reviews. 
Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational 
responsibility for compliance with relevant local Health and Safety 
regulations is delegated to the directors of each operating company. 
We believe Health and Safety training is important and it is carried out 
within companies as appropriate. Last year and this year an additional 
head office driven initiative to provide and co-ordinate further IOSH 
Managing Safely training was organised for our UK companies. 
Adequate internal reporting exists in order that the Group’s Finance 
Director can monitor each company’s compliance with this policy. 
The Group collects details of its worldwide reported Health 
and Safety incidents, and these are available on our website  
at www.halma.com. We are also pleased to report that there 
were no work-related fatalities in 2014/15 or prior years.
Injuries recorded
2015 2014 2013 2012
Days lost due to reportable*  
work-related injuries 546 118 382 301
Total recorded injuries to all 
employees 298 323 320 362
*  Specified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than three working 
days lost.
Our People
Leadership in the global marketplace requires a group culture and 
an inclusive business environment where the best and brightest 
diverse minds, employees with varied perspectives, skills, and 
experiences, work together to meet customer demands. We believe 
that employing the top talent from all groups within our communities, 
from many backgrounds and with varied experiences, helps us to 
better serve our customers and gives us a competitive advantage 
in the global marketplace. To achieve this, we seek to hire, inspire, 
develop and empower top talent from around the globe.
Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine 
whether our core values are authentic in our organisation. The 
survey establishes the values individual employees wish to see in our 
operating culture and to what extent they exist in our current culture.
In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five (50%) of 
the values they wanted to see in our business were actually present. 
Since then, we have improved the accessibility of the survey by 
making it available in paper format as well as online, and by offering 
it in four languages. In the last year alone, participation grew by over 
a third to more than half of all Group employees and the number 
of matching values increased to six (60%). This indicates that the 
alignment between the values that employees want to see in their 
business and the values that are actually present is very good 
and increasing. 
No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but 
our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that 
observable and valuable improvements in the Group culture have 
occurred over recent years. The Group will continue to monitor the 
survey results to enable us to better support our people in bringing 
these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive 
further benefit from them.
44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 “ By increasing the diversity and 
inclusion of our workforce and 
leveraging the insights of our 
diverse talent through an inclusive 
environment, we enhance our 
ability to compete in the world’s 
increasingly diverse marketplace. ”
Jennifer Ward, Group Talent Director 
Diversity
We see diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our 
productivity, creativity, innovation and competitive advantage.  
It is the foundation of a performance culture that promotes respect, 
understanding and appreciation of different perspectives, backgrounds 
and experiences.
Developing regions, including China, Brazil, India and Africa make 
up an increasing share of the world population. They will account for 
approximately 88% of the global population by 2050. Economically, 
diverse markets represent a growing source of consumption and 
buying power, and we must be prepared to serve the needs of the 
changing marketplace.
Because our customer base is constantly changing and growing, 
we need to be prepared in the following ways:
 – diverse and inclusive enough to recognise the needs of customers 
in our current and new markets; 
 – aware enough to anticipate, respond to, and serve the needs of 
the changing marketplace; and
 – engaged enough to contribute at the highest levels to deliver 
superior performance.
By increasing the diversity and inclusion of our workforce and 
leveraging the insights of our diverse talent through an inclusive 
environment, we enhance our ability to compete in the world’s 
increasingly diverse marketplace. We regularly monitor our progress 
toward these aims through executive site visits and annual values 
surveys, which indicate how strongly our desired culture is 
demonstrated in our businesses.
Our efforts are directed towards increasing the proportion of 
individuals with experience in the business and geographic markets 
in which we see our operations growing.
Our strong preference is to develop policies and actions which 
support our long-term aims as well as establishing appropriate 
measurable targets. We believe the former evolves into being 
embedded into corporate culture more readily.
Each year our Board of Directors reviews these policies and their 
implementation to ensure that they create and maintain a diverse and 
inclusive organisation. To the same end, the Halma Executive Board 
has been investigating our KPIs on diversity and ensuring that the 
leadership of our companies reflects the diversity of the markets 
we serve. 
A Diversity and Inclusion Committee was formed this year, with 
representatives from across Halma, reflecting each sector, market 
and function. This committee was co-chaired by Jennifer Ward 
and Chuck Dubois and one of the significant contributions was a 
revitalisation of our Diversity Policy with a new Halma Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy which was issued in March 2015 and is also available 
on our website. 
The focus of our biennial Halma Innovation and Technology 
Exposition (HITE) in April 2015 was expanded to celebrate and 
encourage greater innovation, collaboration and diversity. Prior to 
HITE, focus groups were held across the Group to provide a forum 
for employees and our partner, Global Diversity Practice (GDP) to 
discuss the current environment, challenges and desires. The output 
from this fed into a half-day seminar at HITE 2015, led by GDP , in 
which the Halma Executive Board and our operating subsidiaries’ 
board members all participated. 
Geographic diversity
As our businesses continue to expand globally, it is imperative that 
the insights and perspectives of local markets be represented on our 
leadership teams. Several Group initiatives have been implemented 
to support and encourage our operating companies to put leaders 
on the ground in key markets. We have well-established Halma 
Hubs in China and India and have expanded into Brazil as well. The 
China hub has introduced innovative R&D programmes to incentivise 
local product development for local markets. We continue to seek 
ways to ensure that local leadership is contributing to the global 
business strategies.
Halma Diversity and Inclusion Policy
At Halma we recognise that the diversity of the people in 
our business and the inclusion of all enriches our products, 
performance and the lives of our employees. We believe that 
the diversity of our workforce contributes significantly to our aim 
to protect and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
We are building a culture that encourages talented people of all 
backgrounds, beliefs or any form of personal identity to be 
involved, respected and inspired to develop to their full potential.
Our intention is to create effective team environments that 
enhance decision-making processes. We achieve this by 
encouraging the contribution of unique perspectives and 
capabilities to achieve superior business results through 
trust, collaboration and innovation of new ideas.
By ensuring fairness and equality of opportunity in recruitment, 
training, development, career progression and reward, Halma is 
committed to ensuring diversity and inclusion in the workplace 
and all areas of our business.
Halma believes that the diversity of our staff is a significant 
contributor to our success and has identified two specific 
areas for improvement in Halma’s organisation, particularly 
at managerial levels:
1)  Geographic diversity – to have at least 20% of our executives 
geographically based outside Europe and the USA to better 
reflect the proportion of our revenue generated within those 
markets; and
2)  Gender diversity – to increase the overall proportion of female 
executives on operating company boards in each of the next 
five years.
45 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Total F M
10
2
8
Total F M
5,192
2,194
2,998
Total F M
209
18
191
Total F M
5,411
2,214
3,197
■ Male 59%
■ Female 41%
■ Male 59%
■ Female 41%
Corporate Responsibility continued
Gender diversity
The Board of Directors responded to the consultation document 
that the UK’s Financial Reporting Council issued in respect of 
‘Gender Diversity on Boards’. We are proactively identifying talented 
women internally and externally who could join our leadership teams. 
We appreciate the scale of the task ahead of us in sectors where 
relevant graduates are more than 85% male, so part of our strategy 
will involve ensuring that Halma has a culture and working practices 
that make it more attractive to women. 
The 2014/15 year intake for the Halma Graduate Development 
Programme (HGDP) included graduates from four different countries. 
Since the programme’s inception, on average 35% of recruits have 
been female. The HGDP is already demonstrating our success in 
attracting women and individuals of diverse backgrounds to Halma. 
We must now ensure that they continue to thrive and grow their 
careers with us.
% of Total
Halma plc Board Directors
1
Other senior managers
2
Other employees Total
Notes
1
  Includes non-executive Directors of the Company.
2 
 For Halma ‘senior managers’ is defined as subsidiary company officers and above.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. 
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and 
that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that 
the training, career development and promotion of disabled people 
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting 
the performance of the Group. This is achieved through formal and 
informal meetings, the Group collaboration platform and the annual 
financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range 
of matters affecting their current and future interests.
“ People development is  
a key part of our organic 
growth strategy.”
People development
People development is a key part of our organic growth strategy.
We run a number of people development programmes. Our 
training programmes are constantly reviewed to reflect changing 
training needs amongst our companies. The Halma Executive 
Development Programme (HEDP), which is based on our recognition 
of the fundamental part our people play in the success of the 
Group, continued to strengthen in recent years. HEDP is an 
integrated development plan for our senior people – including the 
next generation of Managing Directors, Sector Vice Presidents and 
Sector Chief Executives. Our objective is to provide these individuals 
with the tools and training they need to achieve more in their existing 
role and potentially to advance through the organisation if their 
achievements merit it.
HEDP is aimed at employees already serving on subsidiary boards 
but we also encourage applications from senior functional managers 
who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities 
and will benefit from the programme.
There are approximately 280 such eligible employees in total.
The programme has been developed from a proven course structure 
and is specifically and continuously tailored to suit Halma’s needs, 
aligning the content to the Group’s four core values of Achievement, 
Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction. It focuses 
strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing 
personal attributes – commitment, determination and resilience. 
There is an emphasis on performance management and team 
development. It includes skill based elements such as sales and 
marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, 
finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
18 programmes have been successfully completed.
Once a significant proportion of executives had completed HEDP , 
a follow up programme, HEDP+, was introduced to provide 
updated training and to reinforce the original course contents.
46 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
235
263
221
194
166
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
539
578
471
392
319
Complementing the HEDP is a programme for subsidiary managers 
and supervisors – the Halma Management Development Programme 
(HMDP). During the year, four HMDP and two HMDP+ programmes 
were completed. Programmes were held in the USA, Europe and Asia.
The Halma Graduate Development Programme (HGDP) was 
introduced during 201 1/12 and the first participants started working 
with us in mid-2012. HGDP is targeted at engineering, science and 
technical graduates with the potential to become future leaders of 
our companies, or next generation specialists driving our technology.
The programme lasts 18 to 24 months and is based on placements in 
our various operating companies. Through project work, participants 
quickly assume responsibility and learn in detail how businesses 
operate. We support participants through residential training modules 
to help develop communication and teamwork skills alongside a 
mentoring programme for personal development. Our intake from 
201 1/12 is now assuming permanent positions within the Group.
Training
Cumulative number of candidates that have completed:
Compliance with, and respect for, these core requirements are 
integrated within our organisation. Everyone in Halma is responsible 
for having due regard for human rights. Managers and supervisors 
must provide leadership that promotes human rights as an equal 
priority to other business issues. All employees are responsible for 
ensuring that their own actions do not impair the human rights of 
others, and are encouraged to bring forward, in confidence, any 
concerns they may have about human rights. Our Chief Executive, 
Andrew Williams, has overall responsibility for ensuring that human 
rights considerations are integral to the way in which existing 
operations and new opportunities are developed and managed.
Ethics
The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability. 
Halma requires its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow 
employees, customers, suppliers and business partners. Halma 
introduced a Code of Conduct during 201 1/12 which applies to all 
Group employees and our external business relationships. We require 
suppliers to be of high quality and to operate to accepted international 
standards. Halma operates a confidential whistleblowing policy, 
which was refreshed and republicised in 2015, with an external call 
centre enabling all Group employees to raise any concerns they 
may have.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which 
extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are 
involved. This includes a prohibition on making political donations, 
offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments 
to influence the outcome of business dealings. Our robust policy 
and guidance in this area are routinely reviewed.
HEDP HMDP
Responsible investment
Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and 
private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical 
and social considerations. The Group is a world leader in several key 
environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and 
integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business 
partners and shareholders.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of 
wealth. Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, 
customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where 
this wealth is best distributed.
Human Rights
Halma’s Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy reflects 
the core requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work, including the conventions relating to forced labour, 
child labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association and right to 
collective bargaining. We do not tolerate practices which contravene 
these international standards. Regulatory demands upon us vary 
considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core 
structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with legislative 
and regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor their 
approach to their particular needs.
47 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Financial Review 
Strong record of long-term achievement
Halma aims to deliver sustainable growth and shareholder 
value over the long term. We have consistently delivered 
record profits, high returns, strong cash flow with low levels 
of balance sheet gearing and a long track record of growing 
dividends. Once again this year we continued this record 
of achievement, further strengthening the platform for 
future growth. 
Kevin Thompson  
Finance Director 
48 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Record results
Adjusted
1
 profit grew by 10% to £153.6m in 2014/15 on revenue 
up 7% to £726. 1m. High returns and strong cash flow enabled us to 
continue investment in our business, spend £84m (net of cash/(debt) 
acquired) on three acquisitions and increase the dividend by a further 
7%, the 36th consecutive year of 5% or more dividend increases. 
This is the twelfth consecutive year of record results. 
Adjusted profit bridge £m
0
50
100
150
2015 Organic
constant currency
Currency Disposals 2014 Acquisitions
153.6 10.0 (3.0) (1.0) 7.4 140.2
9.5% 7.2% (2.3%) (0.7%) 5.3%
The revenue increase of 7% to £726. 1m (2014: £676.5m) was evenly 
weighted between organic and acquisition growth. Organic revenue 
growth at constant currency and acquired growth were both 5%, 
in line with our KPI, offset by a 1% reduction due to the Monitor 
disposal. There was an adverse currency translation impact on 
revenue of 2%. 
Revenue bridge £m
500
550
600
650
700
750
2015 Organic
constant currency
Currency Disposals Acquisitions 2014
726.1 32.7 (12.1) (6.4) 35.4
7.3% 4.9% (1.8%) (1.0%) 5.2%
676.5
Revenue and profit growth
Percentage growth
2015
£m
2014
£m
Increase
£m Total
Organic 
growth
2
Organic 
growth
2
 at 
constant 
currency
Revenue 726.1 676.5 49.6 7.3% 3.1% 4.9%
Adjusted
1
 profit 153.6 140.2 13.4 9.5% 5.0% 7.2%
1
  In addition to those figures reported under IFRS Halma uses adjusted figures as key performance indicators. The Directors believe the adjusted figures give a more representative view of underlying 
performance. Adjusted profit figures exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the 
Defined Benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only). All of these are included in the statutory figures. More details are given in Note 3.
2
 See Financial Highlights.
Adjusted
1
 profit increased 10%, by £13.4m, to £153.6m (2014: 
£140.2m). Adding back the 2% adverse currency translation impact 
shows growth including acquisitions of 12%. Acquisitions contributed 
5% to growth and so organic profit growth at constant currency was 
7%, ahead of our 5% KPI target. 
Statutory profit before taxation declined by 4% to £133.6m 
(2014: £138.7m). Statutory profit is calculated after charging 
the amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £19.9m (2014: 
£17 .5m) and after charging acquisition transaction items and the 
movements on acquisition contingent consideration including related 
foreign exchange movements of £1.5m (2014: credit of £12.5m). 
The prior year credit relates to the revision to the estimate of deferred 
contingent consideration payable on the MicroSurgical Technologies 
acquisition. More detail on the latest estimate is given below. The 
credit of £4.0m in 2014 following the decision to close the two UK 
Defined Benefit pension plans to future accrual was the other main 
factor in the year-on-year reduction in statutory profit. There was also 
a gain in 2015 on disposal of £1.4m (2014 disposal: £0.5m loss), 
mainly relating to Monitor Elevator Products, Inc. 
In the first half revenue grew by 2% and in the second half by 12%. 
There was a significant (5%) adverse currency translation impact in 
the first half and minimal net impact in the second half. Acquisition 
contribution was a little higher in the second half than the first. 
Organic constant currency revenue growth was 4% in the first 
half and increased to 6% in the second half. 
Adjusted
1
 profit also grew by 13% in the second half following 
6% growth in the first half with a similar currency translation and 
acquisition profile to that of revenue. Organic constant currency 
profit growth was 7% in both halves. The first half/second half 
profit split was weighted slightly more than usual to the second 
half at 45%/55% due to the currency impact noted above. 
Three of our four sectors grew both revenue and adjusted profit 
this year. Environmental & Analysis increased revenue marginally 
when measured at organic constant currency. The highest rate 
of growth came from our Process Safety sector, benefiting from 
the RCS acquisition but also achieving strong underlying growth. 
Infrastructure Safety delivered another very good performance and 
Medical finished the year strongly. Environmental & Analysis delivered 
a disappointing performance overall but achieved a much improved 
second half profit performance, broadly in line with the second half of 
the previous year and meeting our expectations. 
Central administration costs increased to £9.0m (2014: £7 .9m) as 
expected. The main elements of the increase were our investment in 
talent development, further expenditure on our graduate programme 
and the costs of support for geographic expansion. We expect a 
further increase in costs in 2015/16 with our biennial HITE conference 
and continued investment in China and other developing markets. 
49 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Growth in all regions
We achieved growth in all geographic regions. Currency translation 
had an adverse effect on the reported performance in all major 
regions. The USA remains our largest sales destination at 31% (2014: 
32%) of total revenue. The USA grew by 4%, including growth of 7% 
at organic constant currency with strong growth from the Process 
Safety and Medical sectors. Mainland Europe saw some underlying 
growth in all sectors with Process Safety growing fastest. UK growth 
of 8% reflected a good performance in Infrastructure Safety, including 
the benefit of an acquisition, but offset by a decline in Environmental 
& Analysis due to reduced spending in the UK water market as part 
of its regular spending cycle. Asia Pacific growth of 5% was mixed 
across the sectors but Environmental & Analysis grew well. There 
was very strong growth in Africa, Near and Middle East and other 
countries, in particular in South America. The acquisition of RCS 
and the benefit of oil & gas related projects within Process Safety 
boosted demand in these regions. 
We saw stronger growth in all territories in the second half compared 
with the first half, except the UK which had 8% growth in both periods.
In 2010 we targeted 30% of Group revenue to come from territories 
outside the UK/Mainland Europe/USA by 2015. This year we made 
further good progress by increasing the percentage to 27 . 1% (2014: 
25.2%). In the period since we set the target we have doubled the 
‘Rest of World’ revenue but made achievement of our target tougher 
by delivering 47% growth in the UK/Mainland Europe/USA. This KPI 
sets an important direction for investment and growth in developing 
global markets and we will continue to focus on international 
expansion and high rates of growth in developing territories 
as well as more economically developed regions. 
Geographic revenue bridge £m
500
550
600
650
700
750
2015 Other
Countries
Asia
Paciﬁc
USA Mainland
Europe
UK 2014
726.1 21.4 5.2 10.4 3.7 8.9
7% 36% 5% 8% 2% 4%
676.5
Continued high returns
Halma’s Return on Sales
2
 has exceeded 16% for 30 consecutive 
years and this year increased to 21.2% (2014: 20.7%). Our target is 
to deliver a Return on Sales in the range of 18% to 22% and continue 
our emphasis on growth. Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors 
further increased their Return on Sales this year. Process Safety saw 
a modest increase, remaining the sector with the highest Return on 
Sales. Environmental & Analysis saw a reduction on its Return on 
Sales at 16.7% and showed improved profitability in the second half. 
Gross Margin (revenue less direct material and direct labour costs) 
remained stable at 64.6% (2014: 64.4%) a solid performance showing 
our ability to achieve a good return on the high value we deliver for 
our customers. 
Return on Total Invested Capital
2
 (ROTIC), the post-tax return on 
the Group’s total assets including all historic goodwill, was 16.3% 
(2014 restated: 16.7%) and this year we revised our calculation to 
use average Total Invested Capital as the denominator to give a 
calculation better reflecting each year’s performance. 
Volatility in currency impacts
Halma reports its results in Sterling. Our other key trading currencies 
are the US Dollar, Euro and to a lesser extent the Swiss Franc. 
Approximately 40% of Group revenue is denominated in US Dollars 
and 15% in Euros. 
The Group has both translational and transactional currency exposure. 
Translational exposures arise on the consolidation of overseas 
company results into Sterling. Transactional exposures arise where the 
currency of sale or purchase transactions differs from the functional 
currency in which each company prepares its local accounts. 
This year we saw greater volatility in currencies and a currency 
headwind stronger than the minimal impact we experienced in 
2013/14. In the first half of the year both the US Dollar and Euro were 
weak relative to Sterling causing a 5% adverse currency translation 
impact on both revenue and profit. In the second half the US Dollar 
strengthened, but the Euro weakened further and the net result for 
the year was only a 2% adverse translation impact on our results. In 
the full year the sectors most affected by adverse currency translation 
impacts were Medical and Infrastructure Safety. 
Geographic revenue growth
2015 2014
£m
% of  
total £m
% of  
total
Change 
 £m
%  
growth
% organic 
growth at 
constant 
currency 
United States of America 223.4 31% 214.5 32% 8.9 4% 7%
Mainland Europe 167.4 23% 163.7 24% 3.7 2% 2%
United Kingdom 138.3 19% 127.9 19% 10.4 8% 2%
Asia Pacific 116.8 16% 111.6 16% 5.2 5% 1%
Africa, Near and Middle East 44.0 6% 33.0 5% 11.0 33% 8%
Other countries 36.2 5% 25.8 4% 10.4 40% 30%
726.1 100% 676.5 100% 49.6 7% 5%
Financial Review continued
50 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Weighted average rates used in the 
Income Statement
Exchange rates used
to translate the
Balance Sheet
2015 2014
2015 2014
First half Full year Full year Year end Year end 
US$ 1.68 1.61 1.59 1.48 1.66
Euro 1.24 1.27 1.19 1.37 1.21
Based on the current mix of currency denominated revenue and 
profit, a 1% movement in the US Dollar relative to Sterling changes 
revenue by £2.9m and profit by £0.6m. Similarly, a 1% movement  
in the Euro changes revenue by £0.9m and profit by £0.2m.
Towards the end of the year we saw significant strengthening of the 
US Dollar and also the Swiss Franc. In more recent weeks we have 
seen the US Dollar weaken somewhat and the Euro remain weak so 
it is difficult to predict the currency impact in 2015/16. If currencies 
were to continue at current levels (approximately US Dollar 1.55/Euro 
1.40 relative to Sterling) and assuming constant mix of currency 
results, we might expect approximately 1% favourable currency 
translation impact on revenue and profit due to currency translation 
in 2015/16 compared with 2014/15. The positive impact would be 
greater in the first half of 2015/16 than the second half. 
We take a neutral view of the future movements of currencies. After 
matching currency of revenue with currency costs wherever practical, 
forward exchange contracts are used to hedge a proportion (up to 
75%) of the remaining forecast net transaction flows where there is 
a reasonable certainty of an exposure. We hedge up to 12 months 
and, in certain specific circumstances, up to 24 months forward. 
At 28 March 2015 over 50% of our next 12 months’ currency trading 
transactions were hedged. There is a good degree of natural hedging 
within the Group in US Dollars but we typically buy fewer products in 
Euros than we sell and so have a net exposure of approximately 
€30m at any time.
Consistent financing cost
The net financing cost in the Income Statement of £4.9m was in 
line  with the prior year (2014: £4.7m). The average cost of bank 
financing was a little higher than 2014 due to more of our borrowing 
being in Sterling and we had higher levels of average debt for the year, 
following acquisitions made in the first half year (see the ‘Average debt 
and interest rates’ table on page 52 for more information). 
Interest cover (EBITDA as a multiple of net interest expense as defined 
by our revolving credit facility) was 51 times (2014: 53 times) which 
was well in excess of the four times minimum required in our 
banking covenants. 
The net pension financing charge is included within the net financing 
cost. This year it decreased to £1.4m (2014: £1.9m) because the net 
pension deficit at the start of the year, on which the interest cost is 
based, was below the deficit at the prior year end. 
Stable Group tax rate
The Group has major operating subsidiaries in 10 countries so the 
Group’s effective tax rate is a blend of these national tax rates applied 
to locally generated profits. Our approach to taxation is to manage 
the tax burden in a responsible manner, keeping good relationships 
with tax authorities based on legal compliance, transparency and 
cooperation. This approach means that Halma is committed to 
paying in full and on time the taxes due in each relevant jurisdiction, 
that our tax arrangements have an underlying business purpose and, 
where possible, we mitigate the burden of tax in compliance with 
local legislation. Intercompany trading is set on a commercial arm’s 
length basis. 
The effective tax rate on adjusted
1
 profit reduced slightly to 
23.2% (2014: 23.3%). A significant proportion (approximately one 
third) of Group profit is generated and taxed in the UK and the UK 
Corporation tax rate fell from 23% to 21% this year, with it reducing 
to 20% in 2016. This reduction was offset by increased profits earned 
in the USA and taxed at relatively higher rates. Halma continues to 
benefit from the UK ‘Patent Box’ rules, resulting in lower tax on profit 
generated from the use of patents in our products. 
Growing earnings per share and increasing dividends
Adjusted
1
 earnings per share increased by 9% to 31. 17p (2014: 
28.47p) in line with the increase in adjusted
1
 profit. Statutory earnings 
per share decreased by 2% to 27 .49p (2014: 28. 14p) due to the 
factors noted above affecting the calculation of statutory profit. A key 
way in which we deliver shareholder value is via consistent growth in 
earnings per share. Earnings per share growth will now feature more 
prominently in our share based incentives. 
The Board is recommending a 7 .2% increase in the final dividend 
to 7 .31p per share (2014: 6.82p per share), which together with the 
4.65p per share interim dividend, gives a total dividend of 1 1.96p 
(2014: 1 1. 17p), up 7 . 1%. The final dividend for 2014/15 is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015 and will be 
paid on 19 August 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 
2015. With this latest rise Halma will have increased its dividend by 
5% or more for 36 consecutive years. 
Over a long period we have maintained a progressive dividend 
policy balancing dividend increases with the rates of organic profit 
growth achieved, taking into account potential acquisition spend 
and maintaining moderate debt levels. Our policy is to maintain 
dividend cover (the ratio of adjusted profit after tax to dividends 
paid and proposed) above two times and this year dividend cover 
is 2.61 times (2014: 2.55 times). We continue to determine the 
dividend payout each year based on all of the factors noted above. 
Revisions to KPIs
We report on pages 22 to 25 the Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) we use to measure the performance of the Group. The 
majority of these externally reported KPIs mirror those used 
every day in monitoring performance in our operations. In addition 
these include Group metrics which link to our remuneration 
performance measures. 
This year we have updated our published KPIs and the main changes 
are as follows:
 – Organic revenue and profit growth is stated at constant currency 
to give a clearer view of underlying performance;
 – Adjusted
1
 earnings per share are now included as this forms part 
of the new Directors’ remuneration performance measures;
 – Acquisition related profit growth is included to give a clearer picture 
of the contribution acquisitions are making to our overall growth;
 – Return on Total Invested Capital
2
 (ROTIC) is now calculated using 
average Total Invested Capital; and
 – Health and Safety is included as a new non-financial KPI. It replaces 
the KPI of CO
2
 emissions reduction, which is now disclosed in our 
Corporate Responsibility report. 
In future reports we plan to replace our current international expansion 
metric with a KPI expressed in terms of absolute international 
revenue growth. 
Strong cash generation
Cash generation is an important component of the Halma model 
allowing us to further invest in our businesses, make value enhancing 
acquisitions and pay an increasing dividend. Our cash performance 
in 2014/15 was strong. Adjusted operating cash flow was £138.7m 
(2014: £129.0m) and represents 87% (2014: 89%) of adjusted 
operating profit, ahead of our KPI target of 85% cash conversion. 
51 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Financial Review continued
A summary of the year’s cash flow is shown in the table to the left.  
The largest outflows in the year were in relation to acquisitions (see 
below) dividends and taxation paid. Working capital movements, 
comprising changes in inventory, receivables and creditors, totalled 
£6.0m (2014: £10.9m) and reflects strong control of operations at 
local company level. 
Capital expenditure on property, plant and computer software this 
year was £23.2m (2014: £17 .4m). This maintains investment in our 
operating capability and includes investment of £5m in a property 
in our Medical sector with a further £5m expected in 2015/16. This 
year’s spend represents 108% of depreciation, falling within the 100% 
to 125% range we expect. 
Dividends totalling £43.4m (2014: £40.5m) were paid to shareholders 
in the year. Taxation paid increased to £30.8m (2014: £28.3m). 
Strong financial position maintained
Halma operations are inherently cash generative and the Group has 
substantial bank facilities. We have access to competitively priced 
finance at short notice and spread our risks to provide good liquidity 
for the Group. Group treasury policy is conservative and no 
speculative transactions are undertaken. 
We use debt to accelerate the Group’s development, reviewing our 
funding needs and the structure of borrowing facilities regularly to 
ensure we have ample headroom. We hold a syndicated revolving 
credit facility of £360m which runs to November 2018. This facility 
provides Halma with the financial resources to operate within its 
existing business model for the medium term, continuing investment in 
our business and with capacity for further acquisitions. Our objective is 
to increase the pace of acquisitions whilst maintaining the disciplined 
approach we have adopted over many years. Over time we expect 
that funding of the Group will include an element of term debt. 
At the year end net debt was £100.9m (2014: £7 4.5m), a combination 
of £142. 1m of debt and £41.2m of cash held around the world to 
finance local operations. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 0.56 times 
(2014: 0.46 times). This is well below the level of 1.25 times within 
which we feel comfortable operating, although we would be prepared 
to exceed this level temporarily if the timing of acquisitions required it. 
Net debt represents 4% (2014: 3%) of the Group’s year end market 
capitalisation. The Group continues to operate well within its banking 
covenants with significant headroom under each financial ratio.
Average debt and interest rates
2015 2014
Average gross debt (£m) 164.8 150.9
Weighted average interest rate on gross debt 1.38% 1.26%
Average cash balances (£m) 45.6 47.1
Weighted average interest rate on cash 0.29% 0.54%
Average net debt (£m) 119.2 103.8
Weighted average interest rate on net debt 1.80% 1.59%
Continued acquisition and disposal activity
Acquisitions and disposals are an important part of our growth 
strategy. We buy businesses already successful in, or adjacent to, 
the niches in which we operate. The acquisition pipeline remains 
healthy and each sector is increasing its own resource to accelerate 
acquisition activity. 
Operating cash flow summary
2015
 £m
2014
£m
Operating profit 137.1 143.6
Net acquisition costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments 1.5 (12.5)
Defined Benefit pension plan closure costs/
curtailment gain – (4.0)
Amortisation of acquisition-related acquired 
intangibles 19.9 17.5
Adjusted operating profit 158.5 144.6
Depreciation and other amortisation 21.0 18.8
Working capital movements (6.0) (10.9)
Capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds (22.2) (15.6)
Additional payments to pension plans (6.6) (5.9)
Other adjustments (6.0) (2.0)
Adjusted operating cash flow 138.7 129.0
Cash conversion % 87% 89%
Non-operating cash flow and reconciliation  
to net debt
2015
£m
2014
 £m
Adjusted operating cash flow 138.7 129.0
Tax paid (30.8) (28.3)
Acquisition of businesses and shares 
of associates including cash/debt acquired (88.2) (16.7)
Net movement in loan notes 2.1 (0.2)
Net finance costs and arrangement fees (3.0) (2.5)
Dividends paid (43.4) (40.5)
Issue of shares/treasury shares purchased (6.0) (7.3)
Disposal of businesses 4.2 1.9
Effects of foreign exchange – 0.4
Movement in net debt (26.4) 35.8
  
Opening net debt (74.5) (110.3)
  
Closing net debt (100.9) (74.5)
Net debt to EBITDA
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 158.5 144.6
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding 
acquired intangible assets) 21.0 18.8
EBITDA 179.5 163.4
Net debt to EBITDA 0.56 0.46
52 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In the year we spent £84m on three acquisitions (net of cash/(debt) 
acquired of £9m). In addition we paid £4m in contingent consideration 
and settlement of loan notes for acquisitions made in prior years.
All acquisition and disposal transactions during the 2014/15 year were 
completed in May 2014:
 – Plasticspritzerei AG, a strategic supplier to one of our businesses 
in the Medical sector, was acquired for a net cash consideration 
of CHF6m (£4m).
 – Advanced Electronics Limited, a manufacturer of networked fire 
detection and control systems, was acquired for our Infrastructure 
Safety sector. We paid an initial consideration of £14m (excluding 
cash and debt acquired of £2m). Contingent consideration of up to 
£10. 1m is payable on earnings growth for the period to March 2015. 
Of this we have settled £2.8m and our current estimate is that 
a further £3.4m will be paid subject to finalisation under the 
acquisition contract.
 – Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc., a manufacturer of pipeline 
corrosion monitoring products and systems, was acquired for 
US$108m (£64m), net of cash acquired of US$9m (£5m). RCS 
adds valuable new technology and application know-how to the 
Process Safety sector. 
We sold Monitor Elevator Products, Inc., a business within the 
Infrastructure Safety sector, for a consideration of US$6m (£4m). 
This continues our active approach to portfolio management. 
We have revised our accrual for contingent consideration on recent 
acquisitions in line with latest best estimates. This has resulted in a 
reduction in our estimate payable on the ASL acquisition and an 
upward revision on that payable for MicroSurgical Technologies (MST) 
following further growth in the year. 
Following the year end in May 2015, we acquired Value Added 
Solutions LLC (VAS) for a cash consideration of $5m (£3.2m) with 
contingent consideration of up to $1 .5m (£1m) payable on growth to 
October 2016. VAS designs and manufactures fluidic-related plastic 
machined components and assemblies for life science and analytical 
instruments. VAS will become part of our US-based Diba Industries 
within the Medical sector . 
The businesses acquired in 201 4/15 and 2015/16, net of the disposal 
made in 201 4/15, are expected to add a net amount of £6m to revenue 
and £1 .5m (after financing costs) to profit in 201 5/16, based on their run 
rate at the time of each transaction. 
Pensions update
The Group accounts for post-retirement benefits in accordance with 
IAS19 Employee Benefits. The Balance Sheet reflects the net deficit 
on our pension plans at 28 March 2015 based on the market value 
of assets at that date and the valuation of liabilities using year end 
AA corporate bond yields. 
Following consultation with all stakeholders, we announced in 
March 2014 that the Defined Benefit (DB) sections of the Group’s UK 
pension plans would cease future accrual as at 1 December 2014. 
This change has been implemented. Members earn future pension 
benefits within the Group’s Defined Contribution (DC) section of the 
pension plan with agreed transitional arrangements. This change 
reduces Group risk for the future. 
On an IAS19 basis the deficit on the Group’s DB plans at March 
2015 has increased significantly to £66.8m (2014: £36.8m) before 
the related deferred tax asset. Plan assets increased to £224.8m 
(2014: £190.5m) due to further recovery in equity values and cash 
contributions by Halma. In total, about 50% of plan assets are 
invested in return seeking assets providing a higher expected level 
of return over the longer term. Plan liabilities increased to £291.6m 
(2014: £227 .3m) primarily due to the significant fall in discount rates.
We continue to make extra cash contributions to the UK pension 
plans to eliminate the pension deficit as agreed with the trustees 
and in 2014/15 these contributions amounted to £7m. We are in the 
process of reviewing, together with the trustees, the initial results from 
the 2014 triennial actuarial valuation and will agree appropriate future 
contributions following this process.
New product investment
We continue to innovate and invest in new products across all 
sectors. This year R&D expenditure increased by 8% with a higher 
rate of investment in the second half of the year. R&D expenditure 
as a percentage of revenue was 4.8% (2014: 4.7%). We have a good 
pipeline of new products which should benefit 2015/16 and beyond. 
In the medium-term we expect R&D expenditure to increase broadly 
in line with revenue. 
Under IFRS accounting rules we are required to capitalise certain 
development projects and amortise the cost over an appropriate 
period, which we determine as three years. In 2014/15 we capitalised/
reclassified £7 .4m (2014: £5.2m), acquired £1.2m, and amortised/
impaired £5.6m (2014: £3.9m). This results in an asset carried on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet, after £0. 1m of foreign exchange 
movements, of £15.9m (2014: £13.0m). All R&D projects and 
particularly those requiring capitalisation, are subject to rigorous 
review and approval processes.
Risk management and the year ahead
Halma has a well established business and financial model  
delivering success consistently over the long term. The model is 
based on considerable autonomy and accountability at operating 
company and sector level, within a robust strategic framework 
supported by strong policies and clear procedures. 
Risk is managed closely and is spread across well-resourced 
companies, each of which manages risk to its individual level of 
materiality. There are extensive review processes in place including 
peer financial review and Internal Audit. The key Group risks have 
been referenced in this Annual Report primarily on pages 28 to 31 
and in the Chief Executive’s Strategic Review and Sector Reviews.  
In addition key risks are highlighted in the Audit Committee Report  
on page 66 and Auditor’s Report on page 95. 
The adoption of a clear four sector structure in April 2014 has 
enabled Sector Finance Directors to be appointed focusing on 
successful control and development of each sector. I have been 
working with them to ensure that our strong control framework is 
maintained as the Group’s activities continue to grow.
The updated UK Corporate Governance Code issued recently by the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) requires regular monitoring of risk by 
the Board. As noted above, for many years we have had comprehensive 
and regular review of risk taking place at many levels throughout the 
organisation. Our focus will be to ensure that the output and actions 
from this review are communicated well, up and down the business, 
building on this strength. 
We have an ethical approach to business and this is reflected in our 
Code of Conduct which is adopted internationally by all employees. 
We are conscious also of the increased risks arising in the area of 
cyber security and have been very active this year in monitoring such 
threats and acting accordingly. Awareness of these potential threats 
has been increased with our employees across the Group and good 
progress continues to be made. 
53 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  The Board considers all of the above factors in its review of ‘Going 
Concern’ as described on page 65 and has been able to conclude 
its review satisfactorily. 
This Annual Report and Accounts is prepared in line with the latest 
requirements for integrated reporting and the Board has taken care  
to ensure that it is ‘fair, balanced and understandable’. The Audit 
Committee took a key role in assessing compliance with reporting 
requirements supported by robust management processes. 
In the year ahead, in addition to organic growth, we will focus on the 
search for further acquisition opportunities within each sector and on 
achieving strong cash generation to fund investment and increasing 
dividends. Our aim is to continue to deliver significant long-term value 
to shareholders.
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director
Financial Review continued
Cautionary note: this Strategic Report has been prepared solely to  
assist shareholders to assess the Board’s strategies and their potential to 
succeed. It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes. 
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith 
using information available up until the date that they approved the Report. 
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because 
of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on  
1 1 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Williams  Kevin Thompson
Chief Executive Finance Director
54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Halma’s Corporate 
Governance report for what has been a relatively busy year for 
us. This report seeks to provide you with a clear and meaningful 
explanation of how we discharge our governance duties and apply 
the principles of good governance enshrined in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code). Halma reports in accordance to the 
revised September 2012 Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure 
& Transparency Rules.
The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest 
standards  of corporate governance and ensuring values and 
behaviours are consistent across the business and underpinned by 
our business model. We have sought to manage the affairs of the 
Company not by merely following regimented rules, but by promoting 
a culture of open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge 
and support in the Board and across the Group. I am pleased with 
the progress Halma has made and continues to make. We routinely 
seek to ensure best practice is maintained and that governance, in 
its broadest sense, is integral to our strategy and decision-making 
processes for the benefit of our shareholders and our employees.
It is my belief that we have to continually nurture talents throughout 
the Group to provide a stimulating work environment and to enable 
effective succession planning. The additional focus we have placed on 
talent in the past year has reinforced that belief, and has also enabled 
us to identify and develop both internal and external candidates to 
contribute to our business and aid such succession planning. With 
that in mind, we have continued to review our governance structures 
and the composition of our Board and Executive Board throughout 
the year. Our commitment to continuously improve the quality and 
performance of Halma’s management talent across the world has 
developed a new momentum that has been embraced throughout 
the Group. 
Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed on 
a routine basis and Halma is always focused on the ways in which 
we attract, identify, assess and develop Board-level talent which is 
a critical factor for us to achieve our mid to long-term strategic goals. 
I am delighted to report that we further strengthened our Board 
with the appointments of Roy Twite and Tony Rice following the 
resignations of Norman Blackwell and Steve Marshall whose other 
commitments precluded continuing as a Halma Director. In Roy and 
Tony we have identified individuals with unique contributions already 
evidenced in Board dialogues.
With Stephen Pettit retiring from our Board after the upcoming 
AGM we are losing a valuable colleague who greatly aided my own 
induction to the Group. I am grateful to him for extending his tenure 
to provide additional cover in a time of multiple Board transitions.
The April 2014 alignment of the Executive Board constitution and 
responsibilities with the four market sectors in which we are engaged 
has also proven successful and allowed for the smooth transition of 
responsibility for the Process Safety sector from Neil Quinn to Philippe 
Felten in May 2015. Such successful transitions underscore the 
rationale for the change and prove the agility of the structure.
With the external Board evaluation having been conducted 
over the past year, I would like to share my take on what we learned. 
It was reassuring to find that there were no surprises and that we 
act as a unified Board, but we were reminded that “it is about culture, 
ethos and personal chemistry” which your Board has repeatedly 
demonstrated. This tone from the top undoubtedly informs operating 
company boards and employees worldwide and contributes to the 
Group’s implacable progress. I am proud to chair Halma’s Board 
and oversee the Group with each of my fellow Directors.
Lastly, I would like to encourage all shareholders to find the time to 
attend our AGM on 23 July 2015. It is an excellent opportunity to 
meet the Board and the Executive Board.
Paul Walker 
Chairman
11 June 2015
“ Halma is always focused on 
the ways in which we attract, 
identify, assess and develop 
Board-level talent...”
Paul Walker, Chairman
Chairman’s introduction to Governance 
55 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Make-up of our Board (as at 11 June 2015)
Board tenure (number of years)
0-1 22%
2-3 11%
3-4 11%
6-10 22%
>10 34%
Gender
Male 78%
Female 22%
Board composition
Chairman 11%
Executive Director 33%
Non-executive Director 56%
Company Secretary 
Nationality
UK 78%
USA 11%
Brazil 11%
Committee membership 
Audit Nom
1
Rem
2
Paul Walker • •
Andrew Williams •
Kevin Thompson
Stephen Pettit • • •
3
Adam Meyers
Jane Aikman • •
4
•
4
Daniela Barone Soares • •
4
•
4
Roy Twite
5
• • •
Tony Rice
6
• • •
• Chairman • Member 
1
 Nomination
2
 Remuneration
3
  Appointed Chairman following Steve Marshall’s 
retirement in July 2014
4
 Appointed in April 2014
5
 Appointed in July 2014
6
 Appointed in August 2014
Board of Directors 
 –
Paul Walker
Non-executive Chairman
Location UK
Paul was appointed non-executive 
Chairman of Halma in July 2013, 
having been appointed to the Board 
in April 2013. Paul is non-executive 
Chairman of Perform Group plc and 
WANdisco plc and a non-executive 
director of Experian plc and 
Sophos Limited. He was CEO at 
the Sage Group plc from 1994 to 
2010 and has previously served 
on the boards of Diageo plc and 
Mytravel Group plc. Paul qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with 
Ernst & Young, having graduated 
from York University with an 
economics degree.
 –
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Location UK
Andrew was appointed Chief 
Executive of Halma plc in February 
2005. He was promoted to Director 
of the Halma plc Board in 2004. 
Andrew joined the Halma Executive 
Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief 
Executive after joining Halma in 
1994 as Manufacturing Director of 
Reten Acoustics (now HWM-Water), 
where he became Managing Director 
in 1997 . He is a Chartered Engineer 
and a production engineering 
graduate of Birmingham University. 
He attended the Advanced 
Management Program at Wharton 
Business School, University of 
Pennsylvania in 2004. Andrew is a 
non-executive director of Capita plc.
 –
Kevin Thompson
Finance Director
Location UK
Kevin was appointed to the 
Halma plc Board in 1998. He 
became Group Finance Director 
in 1997 after joining the Halma 
Executive Board as Finance Director 
in 1995. Kevin joined Halma as 
Group Financial Controller in 1987 . 
Kevin qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Price Waterhouse 
and is an economics and 
accounting graduate of Bristol 
University. He attended the 
Advanced Management Program 
at Harvard Business School in 2007 .
56 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  –
Tony Rice
Non-executive Director
Location UK
Tony was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in August 2014. He 
is the Senior Independent Director 
and remuneration committee 
Chairman of Spirit Pub Company 
plc. Tony was formerly chief 
executive officer of Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc. Earlier in his 
career, Tony was CEO of Tunstall Plc 
and held a number of senior roles in 
BAE Systems plc (including British 
Aerospace). Tony has a BA in 
Business Studies from City of 
London College, an MBA from 
Cranfield School of Management 
and is a member of both the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers 
and the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Carol Chesney
Company Secretary  
Location UK
Carol was appointed Company 
Secretary of Halma plc in 1998. 
She joined Halma in 1995 as Group 
Finance Manager having spent three 
years with English China Clays plc. 
She qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Arthur Andersen 
and is a mathematics graduate of 
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, 
Virginia. Carol is a non-executive 
director of Renishaw plc where 
she chairs the Audit Committee.
 –
Adam Meyers
Sector Chief Executive, Medical
Location USA
Adam joined the Halma plc Board in 
April 2008 and is Chief Executive of 
the Medical sector. He became a 
member of the Halma Executive 
Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief 
Executive, having joined Halma in 
1996 as President of Bio-Chem 
Valve. Adam gained his MBA from 
Harvard Business School and is a 
systems engineering graduate of 
the University of Pennsylvania.
 –
Roy Twite
Non-executive Director
Location UK
Roy was appointed a non-executive 
Director of Halma in July 2014. He 
is an executive director at IMI plc, 
having been appointed to the plc 
board in February 2007 . During his 
career with IMI, Roy has led all of the 
divisions including Severe Service 
(201 1), Fluid Power (2009), Beverage 
and Merchandising (2007) and 
Indoor Climate (2004). Roy has 
a BEng in Engineering from 
Nottingham University and gained 
his Masters in Manufacturing 
Business Leadership from 
Cambridge University in 1998.
 –
Jane Aikman
Non-executive Director
Location UK
Jane was appointed a non-
executive Director of Halma in 
August 2007 . She is Chief Operating 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of 
Phoenix IT Group plc. Previously 
Jane was Finance Director of Infinis 
Energy Limited, Wilson Bowden Plc 
and Pressac plc. She spent three 
years as an internal audit manager 
with GEC Alsthom and five years 
in East Asia with Asia Pulp and 
Paper Co Limited. Jane qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young and has a 
degree in civil engineering from 
Birmingham University.
 –
Daniela Barone Soares
Non-executive Director
Location UK
Daniela was appointed a non-
executive Director of Halma in 
November 201 1. She is Chief 
Executive Officer of Impetus – 
The Private Equity Foundation. 
She is also a non-executive Director 
of Evora S.A. in Brazil and sits on 
the advisory board of a number 
of non-listed, social sector 
organisations in the UK and Brazil. 
Daniela is a member of the UK 
National Advisory Board, which 
advises the G8 Social Impact 
Investment Taskforce. She has 
previously held senior roles at Save 
the Children, BancBoston Capital, 
Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. (New 
York) and Citibank, N.A. (Brazil). 
Daniela has an MBA from Harvard 
Business School and a BSc in 
economics from Universidade 
Estadual de Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Brazil.
 –
Stephen Pettit 
Senior Independent Director 
Location UK
Stephen was appointed a non-
executive Director of Halma in 
September 2003. Previously 
Stephen was a non-executive 
director of National Grid plc, 
non-executive Chairman of ROK plc, 
an executive director with Cable & 
Wireless PLC, a member of the BT 
Group plc Equality of Access Board 
and a divisional chief executive with 
BP PLC. Stephen has an MSc from 
London School of Economics and 
an MBA from INSEAD and is an 
economics and politics graduate 
of Cardiff University.
57 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Executive Board
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Location UK
Kevin Thompson 
Finance Director
Location UK
Adam Meyers 
Sector Chief Executive, Medical 
Location USA
Nigel Trodd 
Sector Chief Executive,  
Infrastructure Safety 
Location UK
Andrew was appointed Chief 
Executive of Halma plc in February 
2005. He was promoted to Director 
of the Halma plc Board in 2004. 
Andrew joined the Halma Executive 
Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief 
Executive after joining Halma in 1994 
as Manufacturing Director of Reten 
Acoustics (now HWM-Water), where 
he became Managing Director in 
1997 . He is a Chartered Engineer 
and a production engineering 
graduate of Birmingham University. 
He attended the Advanced 
Management Program at Wharton 
Business School, University of 
Pennsylvania in 2004. Andrew is a 
non-executive director of Capita plc.
Kevin was appointed to the Halma 
plc Board in 1998. He became 
Group Finance Director in 1997 after 
joining the Halma Executive Board 
as Finance Director in 1995. Kevin 
joined Halma as Group Financial 
Controller in 1987 . Kevin qualified as 
a Chartered Accountant with Price 
Waterhouse and is an economics 
and accounting graduate of Bristol 
University. He attended the 
Advanced Management Program 
at Harvard Business School in 2007 .
Adam joined the Halma plc Board in 
April 2008 and is Chief Executive of 
the Medical sector. He became a 
member of the Halma Executive 
Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief 
Executive, having joined Halma in 
1996 as President of Bio-Chem 
Valve. Adam gained his MBA from 
Harvard Business School and is 
a systems engineering graduate 
of the University of Pennsylvania.
Nigel joined the Executive Board in 
July 2003 and is Chief Executive of 
the Infrastructure Safety sector. He 
had joined Halma in July 2003 as 
Chief Executive of the Process 
Safety Division. Nigel is a member of 
the Chartered Institute of Marketing  
and a business studies graduate 
of Thames Valley University. He 
relocated to Singapore in April 2012 
for a period of two years.
Chuck Dubois 
Sector Chief Executive, 
Environmental & Analysis
Location USA
Philippe Felten
Sector Chief Executive,
Process Safety 
Location Belgium
Jennifer Ward
Group Talent Director 
Location UK
Martin Zhang
President – Halma China 
Location China
Chuck was appointed to the 
Executive Board in April 2008 
and is Chief Executive of the 
Environmental & Analysis sector. 
He joined the Group in 1999 as Vice 
President of Perma Pure LLC and 
was previously President of Diba 
Industries. He earned his MBA from 
the F .W. Olin School of Business 
at Babson College and holds 
a Bachelor’s degree in physics 
from the College of the Holy Cross. 
Chuck attended the Advanced 
Management Program at Harvard 
Business School in 2013.
Philippe was appointed to the 
Executive Board in April 2012 and 
is Sector Chief Executive of the 
Process Safety sector. He joined 
the Group as Sales Director of BEA 
Europe when that company was 
acquired in 2002 and was later 
Chief Executive of BEA Group. 
Philippe completed the Programme 
for Executive Development at IMD 
Lausanne, holds a Bachelor degree 
in Marketing and Management 
(ICHEC – Brussels) and is an 
Electro-Mechanical Engineer 
(ECAM – Brussels).
Jennifer was appointed as Halma’s 
first Group Talent Director in March 
2014. Prior to joining Halma, 
Jennifer spent over 15 years leading 
HR, Talent and Organisational 
Development for divisions of 
PayPal (an eBay company), Bank 
of America and Honeywell. She has 
a Master’s degree from Michigan 
State University and a Bachelor of 
Science degree from Oregon  
State University.
Martin is a member of the Halma 
Executive Board since 2010 and, 
prior to that, an adviser to that 
Board from February 2008. He 
joined the Group in June 2006 and 
has since successfully established 
and expanded Halma China’s 
operations. Martin holds an 
Executive MBA from the University 
of Texas at Arlington (Tongji 
University Shanghai) and a 
Bachelor’s degree in chemical 
engineering from Chengdu 
University of Science and 
Technology. Martin attended the 
Advanced Management Program 
at Wharton Business School, 
University of Pennsylvania in 
2014 and is also a Certified 
Management Accountant.
58 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Compliance with the Code of best practice
As required by the Listing Rules this Report explains how the 
Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions 
of the Corporate Governance Code (the Code) that was published 
in 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council which applied to the 
Company throughout the year ended 28 March 2015.
Throughout the year, the Company has fully complied with the 
provisions as set out in the Code. The Group’s internal controls  
are summarised on pages 26 and 27 .
The Board has determined its ideal composition as a Chairman, 
five independent non-executive Directors and, more recently, 
three executive Directors. The Board views this composition as 
an appropriate structure for the Company providing valuable direct 
knowledge of operations and effective challenge surrounding the 
issues facing the Group. The Board underwent some changes during 
the year with two non-executive Directors retiring after the July 2014 
AGM, but the position was restored to five non-executive Directors 
following Roy Twite’s appointment in July 2014 and Tony Rice’s 
appointment in August 2014. Nevertheless, the Board and committee 
compositions remained compliant throughout the year.
With the exception of Stephen Pettit, in accordance with the 
Code each of the Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves 
for election or re-election at the AGM. Stephen Pettit will be retiring 
from the Board with effect from the end of the AGM and the Board 
is in the process of appointing a successor. Further details on their 
resignations and appointment are provided on pages 62, 70 and 71.
Annual Report and Accounts
In accordance with the Code, the Directors confirm that they  
consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole,  
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Reporting requirement Location
Description of the business model and strategy. Chief Executive’s Strategic Review and Sector Reviews 
See pages 6 to 25 and 32 to 39
Description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee 
considered in relation to the financial statements and how these 
issues were addressed, having regard to the matters 
communicated to it by the external audit team. 
Audit Committee Report  
See page 69
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the 
effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach 
taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor 
to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended 
reappointing or changing the auditor. 
Audit Committee Report  
See page 68
Identification of search consultancies used and any connections 
with the Company. 
Corporate Governance Report and  
Nomination Committee report  
See pages 62 and 71
Statement that the Directors consider that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable  
and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s business model and strategy. 
Corporate Governance Report and  
Audit Committee Report 
See pages 59 and 69
Future policy table and notes, performance scenario charts, 
remuneration obligations in service contracts and statement 
of shareholder vote on the 2013/14 remuneration report. 
Remuneration Committee Report  
See pages 72 to 90
Implementation report, remuneration paid to service advisers, 
single total figure tables, CEO pay comparison to company 
performance and relative importance of spend on pay. 
Remuneration Committee Report  
See pages 72 to 90
Directors’ shareholdings and variable pay awarded in the year. Remuneration Committee Report  
See pages 72 to 90
Reporting Requirements Chart
Corporate Governance Report
59 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  The Board
The Board considered the independence of the Chairman and 
each of the non-executive Directors and subjected Stephen Pettit’s 
term as a non-executive Director to particular rigorous review. 
Details are given on pages 64, 70 and 71. The Board continues to 
regard Stephen Pettit, who retires after the AGM in July 2015, as 
independent and considers the Chairman and all non-executive 
Directors to be independent of management and free from business 
and other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of 
independent judgment now and in the future. The Board believes 
that any shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors 
serve to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered 
appropriate training. Under the Company’s Articles, each Director is 
subject to re-election at least once every three years however, since 
201 1, the Board agreed that each Director shall stand for annual 
Board meeting attendance
During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows:
Committees
Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
1
Overall 
attendance  
%
Paul Walker 6/6 – 4/4 4/4 100%
Andrew Williams 6/6 – – 4/4 100%
Kevin Thompson 6/6 – – – 100%
Stephen Pettit
1
 5/6 3/3 4/4 4/4 94%
Neil Quinn 6/6 – – – 100%
Jane Aikman 6/6 3/3 3/3 3/3 100%
Adam Meyers 6/6 – – – 100%
Daniela Barone Soares
2
5/6 2/3 2/3 2/3 73%
Roy Twite 3/3 2/2 2/2 1/1 100%
Tony Rice 3/3 2/2 2/2 1/1 100%
Lord Blackwell 3/3 1/1 2/2 3/3 100%
Steve Marshall
3
2/3 0/1 1/2 2/3 56%
1
  Stephen Pettit was unable to attend the Board meeting on 30 September 2014, due to commitments made prior to the extension of his current term.
2
 Daniela Barone Soares was unable to attend the committee and Board meetings held on 13 November 2014 due to illness.
3
 Steve Marshall was unable to attend the committee and Board meetings held on 5 June 2014, due to executive chairman responsibilities elsewhere. 
re-election. The Board confirms that all Directors standing for election 
or re-election continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment 
to their roles, following the performance evaluation as described on 
page 63.
Details of Directors’ biographies appear on pages 56 and 57 and in 
the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate 
strategy, investment decisions and treasury and risk management 
policies. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision and the Board meets at least six times each year 
with further ad hoc meetings as required. Directors are issued an 
agenda and comprehensive electronic Board papers in the week 
preceding each Board meeting. All Directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary as well as there being 
an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
Corporate Governance Report continued
60 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairman’s responsibilities
Governance
 – promoting high standards of corporate governance;
 – leading, chairing and managing the Board;
 – ensuring all Board committees are properly structured and 
operate with appropriate terms of reference;
 – regularly considering the composition and succession 
planning of the Board and its committees;
 – ensuring that the Board and its committees’ performances 
are evaluated on a regular basis; and
 – ensuring adequate time is available for all agenda items.
Strategy
 – leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business 
and achievement of its objectives;
 – promoting open and constructive debate in Board meetings;
 – ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions with the 
support of the Chief Executive;
 – ensuring the Board manages risk effectively; and
 – consulting where appropriate with the Senior Independent 
Director on Board matters.
People
 – chairing the Nomination Committee;
 – identifying and meeting the induction and development needs 
of the Board and its committees;
 – developing a strong working relationship with the Chief 
Executive; 
 – ensuring a strong working relationship between executive and 
non-executive Directors;
 – setting clear expectations concerning the Company’s culture, 
values and behaviours; and
 – ensuring effective relationships are maintained with all major 
stakeholders in the business.
Chief Executive’s responsibilities 
 – providing coherent leadership and management of the 
Company with the Chairman;
 – developing objectives, strategy and performance standards 
to be agreed by the Board;
 – providing input to the Board’s agenda;
 – providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to 
achieve the agreed strategies and objectives;
 – securing an Executive Board of the right calibre, with specific 
responsibility for its composition, and that its succession plan 
is reviewed annually with the Chairman and the non-executive 
Directors;
 – monitoring, reviewing and managing key risks and strategies 
with the Board;
 – ensuring that the assets of the Group are adequately 
safeguarded and maintained;
 – building and maintaining the Company’s communications and 
standing with shareholders, financial institutions and the public 
and effectively communicating the Halma plc investment 
proposition to all stakeholders;
 – ensuring the Board is aware of the view of employees on 
issues of relevance to Halma plc;
 – living and fostering the Group values which promote ethical 
practices, integrity and a positive work climate, enabling the 
Group to attract, retain and motivate a diverse group of high 
quality employees; and
 – leading by example in establishing a performance orientated, 
customer focused and publicly responsible Group culture.
61 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Board constitution
Halma refreshed the composition and diversity of its Board with 
the appointment of Roy Twite and Tony Rice as non-executive 
Directors in July 2014 and August 2014. The Nomination Committee 
considered a wide and diverse range of candidates and the Board, 
having given each Director the opportunity to meet Roy Twite and 
Tony Rice, confirmed their independence upon appointment. The 
Board unanimously decided to appoint Roy effective following the 
conclusion of the July 2014 AGM and Tony a month later.
Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and 
Remuneration Committee chairman has been conducted and Halma 
is in the process of identifying Stephen Pettit’s successor. The Board 
search for a new independent non-executive Director is led by our 
Chairman, Paul Walker. A global search firm, Lygon Group, which 
has no other connection to Halma was appointed. The Board is 
considering a wide and diverse range of candidates.
These matters are discussed in the Nomination Committee Report 
on pages 70 and 71.
Board induction
Newly appointed non-executive Directors follow an induction 
programme which includes dedicated time with Group executives and 
scheduled trips to a variety of companies in each of the four sectors. 
All new Directors appointed to the Board have a comprehensive 
induction programme tailored to their individual needs.
Roy Twite and Tony Rice both met with the Company Secretary 
to review their tailored induction pack which included Halma’s 
governance and risk management structure, Board evaluations, 
Board and Committee meeting minutes, strategy papers, recent 
analyst and broker reports on Halma, and access to Halma’s policies 
and procedures manual was also provided. As well as providing a 
schedule of meetings with executives and company visits, Roy Twite 
and Tony Rice also attended the biennial Halma Innovation and 
Technology Exposition (HITE) in 2015 to gain a better understanding 
of the Halma group, its strategy, its operating companies, the 
management teams and their products.
Board diversity
The Board reviewed the report of Lord Davies published in February 
201 1 on Boardroom Diversity and contributed to the FRC review of 
Gender Diversity on Boards noting its support for the benefits of 
greater diversity, which is not just gender specific, but relates also 
to other factors such as market and international experience and 
diversity of thought. The Board agrees that a manufacturing and 
technology company such as Halma needs to adopt policies to 
attract a greater number of females into management roles. The 
Board has reinforced this necessity through the repositioning, 
adoption and implementation of Halma’s Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy (detailed on page 45) rather than by setting quotas. Halma 
aims to improve the representation of women in senior roles and on 
the Board of Directors by applying our newly repositioned policy and 
reviewing implementation to ensure that Halma maintains a diverse 
and inclusive culture. To assist these efforts, operating company 
boards are being encouraged to invite local personnel, with diverse 
skillsets, to attend local board meetings when their disciplines are 
under review. Such exposure to the boardroom will develop these 
individuals but also provide these boards with a fresh perspective.
The Group also conducted diversity and inclusiveness awareness 
training for approximately 250 senior executives at HITE in 2015.
As at year end, the Board had a total of 10 Directors. The skill  
set of the non-executive Directors includes financial, economics, 
banking, engineering, technology, IT, communications and consumer 
expertise. They included eight British, one American and one Brazilian 
nationals. Currently, 22% of the Board are women. 
Halma has the ambition to increase the number of executives 
based outside Europe and the USA to better reflect the proportion 
of our revenue generated outside those markets. The diversity of 
all other employees is detailed on page 45 within the Corporate 
Responsibility report.
Corporate Governance Report continued
Board activity throughout the financial year
April 2014 July 2014 November 2014
 – Budget
 – Chairman and NED fees
 – HITE and CEO conference objectives
 – Pensions strategy update
 – Board Calendar
 – AGM
 – AGM trading update/IMS
 – PSP awards
 – SIP award consideration
 – TSR performance
 – Sector review
 – Half-year results
 – PSP vesting update
 – Consideration of Board Evaluation process –  
internal/external review
June 2014 October 2014 February 2015
 – Preliminary Results
 – Evaluation of prior year objectives
 – Annual objectives for Group
 – Environmental policy annual approval and target setting
 – Dividend proposal/planning
 – Pension fund accounts
 – Assessment of upper quartile performance
 – Special Guarantees guidelines update
 – Matters Reserved for the Board
 – Cyber security
 – Strategy/three-year plan
 – Relative attractions of different sectors
 – Candidates for acquisition/disposal
 – Review of progress towards annual objectives
 – External sum of the parts valuation
 – Debt/capital structure considerations
 – Succession planning update/management bench
 – Cyber security
 – Budget (initial)
 – Remuneration Committee proposals
 – Results of Board effectiveness survey and meetings
 – Trading update
 – Risk management review
 – Cyber security
62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board activity throughout the year 2014/15
During the year the Board received training and briefing updates 
on our sectors, market assessments and changes in market 
conditions, details of acquisition opportunities and geographic 
priorities, succession planning, changes in corporate governance, 
risk management and compliance, audits, bribery and corruption, 
health and safety, environmental matters, cyber security, city 
and shareholder matters, and other relevant legislative and 
accounting changes.
The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and 
visits with the Executive Board, Group companies and Halma’s 
development programmes to ensure that they are able to engage 
with management and employees at all levels. The Directors 
also attend the biennial HITE and the associated conferences.
Board performance and evaluation
The Board considers the evaluation of its performance as a whole 
and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
annually, with each Committee also evaluating its own performance. 
The aim of the evaluations is to improve the effectiveness of the Board 
and its members as well as the performance of the Company. The 
Board ensures that an external facilitator is engaged at least every 
third year. Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review performed the first 
external review in 201 1/12 covering the full Board and Committee 
evaluations. For 2012/13 and 2013/14, the Company Secretary 
facilitated an internal evaluation of Board performance and that of  
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Therefore, 
for 2014/15, the Board underwent an externally-facilitated review 
of the Board and its Committees conducted by EquityCommunications, 
an independent consultancy firm.
This evaluation was conducted between November 2014 and 
January 2015 by way of interviews with each Director. The interviews 
were based on 14 questions that EquityCommunications developed 
in consultation with the Chairman and Company Secretary, focusing 
on the Board’s strategic priorities. The outcome was first discussed 
with the Chairman and subsequently presented to the full Board. The 
evaluation results were circulated to the Board in February 2015 and 
then prioritised at the April 2015 Board meeting.
The Board members’ fulsome and constructive responses indicated 
that whilst there are several areas in which behaviours could be 
modified, or practices tweaked to increase the effectiveness of the 
Board, the overall assessment concluded that the Board exhibits 
excellence across many areas of its responsibilities with levels of 
functionality that are uniformly impressively high.
The report noted that the Board behaves as one team but with each 
individual having a valued voice; an atmosphere of robust but positive 
challenge is evident.
The timing of the external review provided an opportunity for the 
Board members to reflect on the organisational and reporting 
changes that have occurred over the previous 18 months. These 
changes include, not only the structural changes to the four sectors 
and the appointment of the Group Talent Director, but the way 
Board, committee and Executive Board meetings are conducted. 
The Board’s enthusiastic support for these changes has also been 
reinforced by the Group’s performance and how Halma is now 
positioned to capitalise on its increased agility both for centrally 
based executives and sector executives.
The report also commented on the strength of Halma’s senior 
management, with their rise through the ranks being a model for 
others, but also endowing the Board with a refreshing combination 
of invaluable service coupled with immense loyalty with no signs of 
fatigue. However, the Board recognises that exposure to other 
operating boards can benefit Halma, so additional encouragement 
for senior executives to seek an external non-executive Director 
appointment was recommended.
The future size and composition of the Board was one area that 
produced a divergence of opinion which, ultimately, helped inform the 
Board’s view on executive succession in the lead up to Neil Quinn’s 
retirement from the Board. Whilst previously the Board had considered 
the ideal composition to be four executive Directors, Neil’s retirement, 
combined with the new organisational structure afforded the Board 
time to consider its options and time to provide additional Board 
exposure to the executive team on a rotational basis.
The Board was united in its view about future Board skills and 
experiences. More diversity would be welcome, and for Halma this 
goes deeper than gender, geography and age. Whilst Halma would 
welcome extending female membership of the Board, and non-
executive Directors with native geographic experience, especially in 
the Far East, the Board values diversity of experience and outlook just 
as highly as gender. Developing this diversity further is a goal for most.
In common with many boards, executive succession was noted 
during the interviews as being of utmost importance; greater 
discussion with the entire Board was encouraged.
In terms of strategic planning, the Board concluded that its 
comprehensive programme ensured alignment of short to 
medium-term priorities. 
 
Board activity throughout the financial year
Year 1  
External evaluation facilitation
Year 2  
Internal review
Year 3  
Internal review
Performance evaluation cycle
April 2014 July 2014 November 2014
 – Budget
 – Chairman and NED fees
 – HITE and CEO conference objectives
 – Pensions strategy update
 – Board Calendar
 – AGM
 – AGM trading update/IMS
 – PSP awards
 – SIP award consideration
 – TSR performance
 – Sector review
 – Half-year results
 – PSP vesting update
 – Consideration of Board Evaluation process –  
internal/external review
June 2014 October 2014 February 2015
 – Preliminary Results
 – Evaluation of prior year objectives
 – Annual objectives for Group
 – Environmental policy annual approval and target setting
 – Dividend proposal/planning
 – Pension fund accounts
 – Assessment of upper quartile performance
 – Special Guarantees guidelines update
 – Matters Reserved for the Board
 – Cyber security
 – Strategy/three-year plan
 – Relative attractions of different sectors
 – Candidates for acquisition/disposal
 – Review of progress towards annual objectives
 – External sum of the parts valuation
 – Debt/capital structure considerations
 – Succession planning update/management bench
 – Cyber security
 – Budget (initial)
 – Remuneration Committee proposals
 – Results of Board effectiveness survey and meetings
 – Trading update
 – Risk management review
 – Cyber security
63 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Executive
Board
Share Plans
Committee
Bank Guarantees
and Facilities
Committee
Acquisitions
and Disposals
Committee
Board
Key committees
Other committees
As in prior years, the Board also met in February 2015 before 
the scheduled Board meeting to provide a forum for discussion 
of the Board evaluation outside the formal Board meeting. This forum 
has proven useful for a number of years. The Chairman and non-
executive Directors also meet at least once each year without 
executive Directors present to ensure there is an opportunity to 
discuss potentially sensitive matters. The Chief Executive will join 
this Group for part of these meetings at least once per annum. 
The Senior Independent Director is also available to meet with the  
non-executive Directors without the Chairman present. The Executives 
are also given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and/or the 
Senior Independent Director separately. The outcome of these 
meetings is fed back to individuals by the Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director or Chief Executive, as appropriate.
Committees of the Board
Our Committees are a valuable part of the Company’s corporate 
governance structure. The workload of the committees includes  
the table of scheduled meetings as well as ad hoc meetings and 
communications frequently requiring considerable amounts of time.
Halma has six committees and sub-committees of the Board: the 
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee, the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and 
Facilities Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee. 
Each of these committees has terms of reference which have been 
recently reviewed, updated and approved by the Board, copies  
of which are available on the website or on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Directors 
and the Chairmen of each of the three key Board committees, the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, provide regular 
updates to the Board. As of April 2014, all non-executive Directors  
sit on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Executive Board, whilst not a sub-committee of the Board 
nonetheless provides another means of reinforcement of the 
Company’s operational and corporate governance structure 
operating within guidelines that reflect the Matters Reserved for 
the Board.
A chart setting out the Company’s Board and committees’ structure 
is given above with the Board and Committee memberships and 
Directors’ biographical details shown separately on pages 56 and 57 . 
The responsibilities of the key Board Committees and the key issues 
and activities during 2014/15 are set out in the following Committee 
reports on pages 66 to 90.
Investor relations
The Board recognises the importance of effective communication with 
our shareholders. In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts 
the Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate the Group’s 
strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within 
the guidelines of the Listing Rules. Such meetings ensure that 
institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Company’s 
issued share capital meet or hold discussions with the Company on  
a regular basis. Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity  
to meet the Chairman and/or Senior Independent Director. Notes  
from all investor meetings are circulated to the Chairman with investor 
feedback results from roadshows circulated to the whole Board.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review 
of the remuneration policies and practices of the Company and 
consulted the top 10 shareholders regarding its proposals. More 
details related to this process are included on pages 72, 73 and 80.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general  
meeting where they can gain a better understanding of the Company. 
Shareholders are able to pose questions to the Board on the matters 
put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and 
the management of the Company. Major shareholders are also invited 
to briefings following the half-year and annual results. This year, the 
Board hosted a dinner on 5 March 2015 in London at which analysts 
and institutional investors had the opportunity to meet with members of 
the Group’s Executive Board. No new material financial information nor 
update on current trading is provided at such events. The content of 
presentations to shareholders and analysts at results announcements 
and all announcements are available on the Group website: 
www.halma.com. 
The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest 
Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Reports, biographical 
information on Directors and the Executive Board, share price 
information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as 
links to their own websites. The website also features the facility to 
request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group 
and there is a feedback form to invite suggestions for improvements 
to the website and our investor relations activities.
Corporate Governance Report continued
Board governance structure
64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 ■ 1-5,000 78.7%
■ 5,001-25,000 13.0%
■ 25,001-100,000 4.1%
■ 100,001-750,000 2.9%
■ 750,001 and over 1.3%
■ 1-5,000 1.8%
■ 5,001-25,000 2.3%
■ 25,001-100,000 3.6%
■ 100,001-750,000 15.0%
■ 750,001 and over 77.3%
Shareholders can keep up to date with the latest Halma financial 
news, on the move, with our Investor Relations iPad app. This is 
available as a free download from the Apple iTunes store, as detailed 
below. The app is updated at the same time as our website and 
delivers news releases, regulatory announcements, presentations, 
reports, webcasts, videos, financial documents and the share price.
To help investors understand the scope of our business we have 
produced an ‘Introduction to Halma’ animated video. This can be 
viewed from the home page of our website (www.halma.com) and 
from our iPad investor app.
Type this link into your browser to go to the Halma Investor Relations 
app download page on iTunes: http://goo.gl/4W91y 
The Financial calendar is set out on page 164.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the 
Group’s system of internal control and risk management, and the 
review of the system’s effectiveness has been delegated to the 
Audit Committee. Whilst not providing absolute assurance against 
material misstatements or loss, this system is designed to identify 
and manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement 
of the Group’s objectives. The Group’s risk management structure 
and process is detailed on pages 26 and 27 . The Group’s principal 
risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 28 to 31.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, 
which has been in place for the year under review and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. This process 
has been reviewed by the Board and the Board is satisfied that the 
Group accords with the FRC guidance on risk management and 
internal control. The Board made several enhancements in the 
conduct of the process during the year and will continue to review 
the system routinely to ensure that the system of internal control 
and risk management remains fit for purpose. 
The Group’s external Auditor, Deloitte LLP , has audited the financial 
statements and has reviewed the financial control systems to the 
extent Deloitte considers necessary to support the audit report.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the main trends  
and factors likely to affect its future development, performance  
and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Strategic 
Report. In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, 
its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to currency 
and liquidity risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources (including a £360m 
five-year revolving credit facility, of which £220m was undrawn at 
28 March 2015) together with contracts with a diverse range of 
customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and 
industries. No one customer accounts for more than 2% of Group 
turnover. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group 
is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After conducting a formal review of the Group’s financial resources, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
Results of our 2014 annual general meeting
 Total  
votes  
for 
%
Total 
votes  
against  
%
Votes  
withheld
%
1 Report and Accounts 99.8 0.0 0.2
2 Dividend 99.8 0.0 0.2
3 Remuneration Policy 96.2 1.0 2.8
4 Remuneration Report 98.9 0.3 0.8
5–12 Directors 92.6 to 99.5 0.2 to 7 . 1 0.3
13 Reappointment of Auditor 99.8 0.0 0.2
14 Auditor’s remuneration 99.8 0.0 0.2
15 Authority to allot shares 98.9 0.9 0.2
1 6  D i s a pp l ic a t io n o f 
pre-emption rights 99.6 0.1 0.3
17  Authority to purchase 
own shares 99.7 0.1 0.2
18 Notice of general meetings 93.1 6.7 0.2
Shareholders (number) at 13 May 2015
Analysis of shares (number) at 13 May 2015
65 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Audit Committee Report
Allocation of time %
Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-
executive Directors of the Group. The Audit Committee’s terms 
of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7 . 1 and the Code. The terms of reference are 
considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred 
to the Board for approval. The full terms of reference were updated 
in June 2014 (including the recommendations of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) June 2013 audit 
committee terms of reference guidance) and refreshed again in April 
2015. Further emphasis is now placed on the increased work scope 
of the Committee as envisaged by the revised September 2014 FRC 
Corporate Governance Code and Risk Management and Internal 
Control Guidance as well as the Competition & Markets Authority 
Order and other relevant EU guidance relating to auditor tender and 
tenure. The terms of reference can be found on the Company’s 
website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
 – monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance and review significant financial reporting judgments 
contained therein; 
 – have oversight of risk management, including the review of the 
Group’s financial, operational and compliance internal controls, 
as well as whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures; 
 – monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
Audit function; 
 – review the tenure of the external auditor in the context of 
retendering requirements and make recommendations to the 
Board on the timing of any process;
■ Financial statements and reports 36%
■ Risk management 11%
■ Internal audit 9%
■ External audit (incl. training) 35%
■ Governance 9%
“ The Audit Committee continued 
to challenge and engage with 
management, internal audit 
and the external Auditor to fulfil 
its expanded role.”
Jane Aikman, Chairman, Audit Committee
Audit Committee Chairman overview
During the previous year, the Audit Committee focused on the 
integrity of the Group’s financial reporting including the processes 
to make our Annual Report and Accounts ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’, the effectiveness and appropriateness of our system 
of risk management and internal controls as well as our internal and 
external audit processes, in accordance with the revised Corporate 
Governance Code. 
In 2014/15, the Audit Committee continued to challenge and 
engage with management, internal audit and the external 
Auditor to fulfil its expanded role; timely circulation of reports and 
information also enabled the Committee to continue to discharge its 
duties and responsibilities effectively. During the course of the year, 
the Committee considered the approach to the group’s upcoming 
viability statement, the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls 
and risk management systems and whether there is any scope for 
improvements in our already integrated and robust approach. As a 
result of the additional scrutiny there is an increase in the awareness 
and monitoring of principal risks at all levels – in the subsidiary 
companies, our sectors and at the Halma Board. 
Recent changes in legislation led the Committee to reassess the 
timing of the external auditor tender and the effectiveness of the 
process and their conclusions are explained further on in this Report.
I hope you find this Report helpful in understanding the work of the 
Audit Committee.
Audit Committee members
 – Jane Aikman (Chairman) 
 – Stephen Pettit 
 – Daniela Barone Soares
 – Roy Twite (Appointed 24 July 2014)
 – Tony Rice (Appointed 8 August 2014)
66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  – make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to 
the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, on the 
appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor; 
 – review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant 
UK professional and regulatory requirements; and 
 – develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the 
external audit firm. 
Key issues and activities
The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the 
Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control process. Combined with 
the Committee’s review of the internal and external audit functions, it 
is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
More specifically, during the year the Committee reviewed its own 
effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed in the table below.
Audit Committee activities
Financial statements and reports
 – reviewed the March 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the 
September 2014 Half Year Report and the trading updates 
issued in July 2014 and February 2015. As part of these reviews 
the Committee received a report from the external auditor on 
the audit of the Annual Report and Accounts; 
 – reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 
internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and 
financial statements; 
 – considered acquisition valuation and accounting methodology; 
 – reviewed pension fund accounts; 
 – reviewed treasury policy; 
 – reviewed currency exposure and hedging policies; and 
 – reviewed taxation provisions. 
Risk management
 – considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process 
to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Group’s changing risk 
profile and future risk reports; 
 – devoted additional time to adequately address risk management 
and internal control in the Group; and 
 – considered export controls and other compliance-related matters. 
Internal audit
 – evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be 
undertaken by the Internal Audit function;
 – reviewed management responses to audit reports issued 
during the year; 
 – reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing policy which allows Internal 
Audit, via the Company Secretary, to receive, in confidence, 
complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing 
issues and related matters; and
 – reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
External auditor and non-audit work
 – considered the timing and process for external auditor tender;
 – reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology 
of the audit and non-audit work to be undertaken by the 
external auditor;
 – evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor; and 
 – agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to 
the external auditor for the audit of the 28 March 2015 
financial statements.
Governance
The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year 
with Jane Aikman as the Chair. All the current five members are 
independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision 
C.3. 1 of the Code. The Chief Executive, Finance Director and 
representatives from the external Auditor attend Committee meetings 
by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice. The Committee 
meets at least three times per year and routinely meets the Auditor 
without the involvement of the executive Directors. The Committee 
meets with the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year. 
The Finance Director works closely with the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee to ensure open communication between them. The 
Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit 
Committee with recent and relevant financial experience. She is 
a chartered accountant, is a finance director and has listed 
company experience.
Training
Last year the Audit Committee extended its meetings by an 
hour, which provided capacity to facilitate additional in-depth 
discussions, presentations and training on topics relating to risk 
management and internal control, valuation and accounting for 
acquisitions and disposals, financial reporting (including additional 
coverage of audit procedures, scope and methodology), fraud, cyber 
security and governance.
Engagement of the external auditor
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Group’s 
and Company’s financial statements. The audit includes the review 
and test of the data contained in the financial statements to the extent 
necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of 
the financial statements.
Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since 2003 
and a review of the independence of Deloitte LLP is undertaken each 
year. At the year end, the Auditor formally confirmed its independence 
and that objectivity has been maintained. The Committee concluded 
that the relevant independence continues to be met. In addition, 
the partner responsible for the Group audit is rotated at least every 
five years.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, 
reviews and advice throughout the year, as set out in their 
terms of engagement.
External auditor tendering
In accordance with UK regulations, the Company’s Auditor adheres 
to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead 
engagement partner is appointed in place of the previous lead 
engagement partner once he has completed a term of five years in 
that role. Following a rigorous evaluation of the audit service and a 
change in audit partner in 2010/1 1, the Audit Committee agreed that 
a full tender was not required for the 2013/14 audit. The Committee 
reconsidered its review during 2014/15 and concluded that a full 
tender is not currently required. In making this assessment the 
Committee focused on the robustness of the audit, the quality 
of delivery of audit services and the effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence of the Auditor in its reviews. The Committee is satisfied 
that Deloitte continues to provide an effective audit and appropriate 
independent challenge to the Group’s senior management.
The Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) and is supportive of the recommendation to put 
the external audit out to tender at least once every 10 years. The 
recent Competition & Markets Authority’s (CMA) Final Order which 
is now designed to align with the new EU Regulation 547/2014 allows 
companies greater flexibility over the timing of both their external audit 
tender and the required five-yearly cycle of partner rotation. 
67 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Audit Committee Report continued
Halma is now required to conduct a competitive audit tender by 
June 2023. Due to these changes in transitional arrangements, 
the timing of our audit partner rotation next year and the current 
Audit Committee Chairman planning to step down in 2016/17 , the 
Committee now intends for the incoming Audit Committee Chairman 
to lead the external tender and the process will be completed before 
the end of December 2018. 
Auditor independence
The Group’s ‘Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided 
by the External Auditor’ sets out restrictions on the categories of 
non-audit services which the external auditor is allowed to provide 
to the Group, a summary of which is provided in the table above. 
This policy is regularly reviewed and states that the Group will only 
use the appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases 
where these services do not conflict with the auditor’s independence.
The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best placed to 
advise the Group on matters related to tax compliance and the 
structure of the Group. The Committee accepts that certain work of 
a non-audit nature is best undertaken by Deloitte, and appointments 
are made taking into account factors including expertise and fees. 
The Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature of the 
non-audit work Deloitte performs. The Audit Committee is notified 
of all of Deloitte’s non-audit services with fees between £50,000 
and £100,000. The policy also sets a fee level per project of £100,000 
above which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process. 
The above fee levels for non-audit services are also subject to an 
annual cap equal to 70% of the audit fee. At each meeting, the Audit 
Committee also receives a summary of all fees, audit and non-
audit, payable to the external Auditor.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2014/15 were 
£803,000 (2014: £759,000) and non-audit service fees were 
£172,000 (2014: £65,000). The principal non-audit service is tax-
advisory related. A summary of fees paid to the external Auditor 
is set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 1 19.
Policy of auditor independence and services
Prohibited non-audit services
 – appraisal or valuation services;
 – financial information systems design and implementation;
 – bookkeeping services;
 – management functions;
 – executive recruiting and resource services;
 – broker-dealer services; and
 – legal services.
Audit-related services not subject to separate tender if fees 
<£100,000
 – audits of businesses acquired or to be sold and due 
diligence services;
 – opinions/audit reports on information provided by the Company 
upon request from a third party;
 – advice on accounting policies;
 – electronic data processing audits; and
 – tax services including local tax compliance.
Permitted non-audit services, subject to approval with 
requirement to tender if fees >£100,000
 – due diligence services relating to acquisitions with fees in excess 
of £100,000;
 – public reporting on investment circulars;
 – liquidation services in respect of redundant subsidiaries or 
associate companies; and
 – tax-advisory fees in excess of £100,000 where the firm’s existing 
knowledge of the Group structure is preferred.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) 
260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Practices 
Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external Auditor has 
confirmed its independence as Auditor of the Company, in a letter 
addressed to the Directors.
Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the 
Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the 
Company’s independent Auditor be proposed to shareholders at 
the AGM in July 2015 and the Board has accepted and endorsed 
this recommendation.
External audit effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is assessed by the 
Committee, which meets regularly throughout the year with the audit 
partner and senior audit managers. Key to the overall effectiveness of 
the process is a ‘no surprises’ approach adopted by both the Group 
and the Auditor under which each party makes the other aware of 
accounting and financial reporting issues as and when they arise, 
rather than limiting this exchange to the period in which formal audit 
and review engagements take place.
This general approach is supported by a formal annual survey 
process involving subsidiary and Group management as well as 
Audit Committee members and attendees.
Surveys are tailored and issued to three distinct groups 
of respondents:
 – Subsidiary Finance Directors;
 – Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and 
Sector Finance Directors; and
 – Audit Committee members and attendees.
The survey completed by the first group is divided between 
questions focusing on audit quality and client service. As this group 
is involved primarily in the execution phase of the audit, the responses 
cover practical audit management issues as well as observations 
made of the integrity and quality of audit field teams. The second 
and particularly the third group interact mainly with senior audit 
management and the audit partner and so the survey covers more 
general audit planning and wider issues around the audit relationship.
In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the external Auditor the 
Committee recognises that Group management has an important 
role to play in the overall effectiveness of the external audit process 
and the Auditor is therefore asked to conduct its own survey of both 
subsidiary and head office companies with which Deloitte interacts. 
This survey addresses items such as the timeliness, quality and 
reliability of data provided to the Auditor.
Taken together, the Committee believes that sufficient and 
appropriate information is obtained to form an overall judgment on 
the effectiveness of the external audit process. The external audit 
effectiveness process findings from last year’s review were also 
incorporated into our audit processes this year.
Risk management and internal controls
Further details of risk management and internal controls are set out 
on pages 26 to 31. Through monitoring of the effectiveness of its 
internal controls and risk management, the Committee is able to 
maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas 
of judgment and decision-making processes within the Group.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Significant issues in relation to financial reporting 
matters in 2014/15
During the year the Committee considered significant risks and 
issues in relation to the Group’s financial statements and disclosures 
relating to:
 – the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible 
assets due to the significance of the amounts recorded on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the judgments involved in assessing 
goodwill and intangible assets for impairment, and the continued 
challenging economic conditions;
 – the risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in line with 
IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ including the recording of fair value 
adjustments and the identification of acquired intangibles;
 – the valuation of any contingent consideration arising on acquisitions 
in current and prior periods; 
 – the judgments involved in valuing Defined Benefit pension plans 
including the discount rate, the mortality assumption and the 
inflation level; 
 – the risk around capturing the capitalised development costs 
in relation to qualifying products as well as the subsequent 
impairment review based on predicted product launch and 
performance; and
 – ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable.
These issues were discussed with management at various stages 
during 2014/15 and during the preparation and finalisation of the 
financial statements. After reviewing the presentations and reports 
from management the Committee is satisfied that the financial 
statements appropriately address the critical judgments and 
key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the 
disclosures made. The Committee is also satisfied that the significant 
assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities 
have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently 
robust. The Committee has discussed these issues with the Auditor 
during the audit planning process and at the finalisation of the year 
end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those 
drawn by the Auditor in relation to these issues. 
The Committee’s process for challenging the assumptions of 
management and addressing the risks identified includes the 
following activities:
 – considering the appropriateness of reviews conducted of 
acquisition purchase agreements against the related accounting 
entries and fair value calculations for the acquired opening 
balances. This involved challenging, where required, assumptions 
and key judgments underpinning the valuations, and benchmarking 
acquisitions;
 – assessing treatments of contingent consideration payment 
arrangements against the requirements of IFRS 3;
 – focusing on, monitoring regularly and constructively challenging 
the reasonableness of the assumptions used in impairment 
calculations by management; challenging the appropriateness of 
judgments and forecasts used including discount rates, growth 
rates, the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units 
and methodology applied, and any other associated disclosures in 
note 1 1 to the Accounts;
 – assessing capitalisation of development costs in line with the 
accounting policy and standards; 
 – assessing the assumptions in determining the pension obligations, 
particularly given recent market volatility and determined whether 
the key assumptions were reasonable. These assumptions were 
also benchmarked against other listed companies and variances 
highlighted for consideration; and
 – considering the appropriateness and reasonableness of stated 
judgments and conclusions and that reporting was accurate.
As part of the above process the Committee specifically considered 
the following:
 – the treatment and valuation of the contingent consideration payable 
in relation to ASL, Advanced and MST ;
 – review of the fair value of acquired intangible assets for Advanced 
and RCS;
 – composition of the cash generating units and related calculations;
 – the evidence supporting the going concern basis of accounts 
preparation, the new viability statement to be introduced in 
2015/16 and the risk management and internal control disclosure 
requirements;
 – the relative value of projects in development and completed 
projects comprising the capitalised development costs balance 
and the coverage of these values by expected future cash flows to 
test the assertion of management that no projects were at risk of 
impairment; and
 – accounting assumptions and disclosures of the Defined Benefit 
pension plans following the closure of the plans to future 
benefit accrual.
Fair, balanced and understandable report 
and accounts
One of the key governance requirements is for the report and 
accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable. Ensuring that this 
standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial 
reporting issues affecting the Group on a year-round basis in addition 
to a number of focused exercises that take place during the Annual 
Report and Accounts production process.
These focused exercises can be summarised as follows:
 – a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal 
consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts. This 
review assesses the Annual Report and Accounts against objective 
criteria drawn up for each component of the requirement (individual 
criteria that indicate ‘fairness’ , ‘balance’ and ‘understandability’ 
as well as criteria that overlap two or more components);
 – a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of the 
presentation of risks and significant judgments throughout the main 
areas of risk disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts;
 – a formal review of all Board and Committee meeting minutes by 
the Company Secretary to ensure that all significant issues are 
appropriately reflected and given due prominence in narrative 
reporting; and
 – preparation and issue to the Audit Committee of the key working 
papers and results for each of the significant issues and judgments 
considered by the Audit Committee in the period.
The Directors’ statement on a fair, balanced and understandable 
Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 59.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Jane Aikman
Chairman
1 1 June 2015
69 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  ■ Succession planning and recruitment 41%
■ Governance and reporting 17%
■ Independence and (re-)election 
 of Directors 25%
■ Composition of the Board 17%
Nomination Committee members
 – Paul Walker (Chairman) 
 – Andrew Williams 
 – Stephen Pettit 
 – Jane Aikman (appointed 10 April 2014)
 – Daniela Barone Soares (appointed 10 April 2014)
 – Roy Twite (appointed 24 July 2014)
 – Tony Rice (appointed 8 August 2014)
Allocation of time %
Nomination Committee Report 
Nomination Committee Chairman overview
The role of the Nomination Committee is to:
 – review the balance and composition of the Board and its 
Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate;
 – be responsible for overseeing the Board’s succession planning 
requirements including the identification and assessment of 
potential Board candidates and making recommendations to 
the Board for its approval; and
 – keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession 
planning for, the Group in relation to both its executive Directors 
and other senior executives. This includes the consideration of 
recommendations made by the Chief Executive for changes to 
the executive membership of the Board.
During 2014/15 the Committee has focused heavily on executive and 
Board succession with the following key outcomes.
 – The April 2014 appointment of Jennifer Ward as Group Talent 
Director, an Executive Board position;
 – The April 2014 decision to appoint each non-executive Director 
to each of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees 
reflecting the Board’s emphasis on full transparency;
 – The appointment on 24 July 2014 of Roy Twite and Tony Rice 
on 8 August 2014 as non-executive Directors following the 
resignations of Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell, each 
due to other external commitments;
 – In light of the unanticipated Board resignations, the assessment 
of Stephen Pettit’s independence prior to inviting him to remain 
on the Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee until, no later than, the 2015 AGM;
 – Review and implementation of the Board succession plan to 
refresh the Board over a two-year period when both the current 
Senior Independent Director/Remuneration Committee Chairman 
and Audit Committee Chairman will be stepping down. This has 
been aimed at balancing Board evolution with stability and in 
keeping with the Board’s composition principles including 
promoting diversity including in terms of gender and experience. 
Good progress has been made on this during the year with the 
appointment of two new non-executive Directors while robust 
progress to identify Stephen Pettit’s successor is ongoing.
Board succession and composition will remain a priority for the 
coming year as the Board continues to execute its succession plan.
“ ...the Board succession plan 
[is] to refresh the Board over 
a two-year period when both 
the current Senior Independent 
Director/Remuneration 
Committee Chairman and Audit 
Committee Chairman will be 
stepping down. ”
Paul Walker, Chairman, Nomination Committee
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Responsibilities
The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.  
The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference include all matters 
indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of 
reference are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and 
are then referred to the Board for approval. The full terms of reference 
were reviewed during the year and updated in April 2015. The terms 
of reference can be found on the Company’s website or can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to:
 – regularly review the structure, size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of the Board compared 
to its current position and make recommendations to the Board 
with regard to any changes; 
 – give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and 
other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company 
and the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future; and 
 – identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates  
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise. 
Governance
The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial 
year. It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed 
to be independent on appointment to the Board. Six of the seven 
members of the Committee are independent non-executive  
Directors in accordance with provision B.2. 1 of the Code.
Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell were members of the 
Committee prior to their retirements on 24 July 2014.
Key issues and activities
The Committee met on several occasions during the year and 
considered:
 – the re-election of all Directors at the July 2014 annual 
general meeting; 
 – succession planning; 
 – external board evaluation; 
 – Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell’s resignations;
 – the independence of non-executive Directors;
 – Stephen Pettit’s re-election to the Board and its Committees 
and appointment as SID and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee;
 – the nominations and appointments of Jane Aikman and Daniela 
Barone Soares to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees; 
and
 – the nomination and appointment of Roy Twite and Tony Rice as 
non-executive Directors and members of the Nomination, Audit 
and Remuneration Committees.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, a candidate profile 
is developed indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required 
taking into account the Board’s existing composition. External search 
consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors 
and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for 
succession planning.
The Nomination Committee, led by Paul Walker, conducted the 
non-executive Director succession searches. A global search firm, 
JCA Associates, which had no other connection to Halma, was 
appointed. A wide range of high calibre candidates was considered 
for each role. The Committee and Board confirmed both Roy Twite’s 
and Tony Rice’s independence upon appointment and were 
unanimous in their decisions to appoint them. The current search is 
being conducted similarly with the assistance of the Lygon Group.
Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director was  
well in hand when Norman Blackwell indicated that his April 2014 
chairmanship of Lloyds Banking Group Plc would preclude his 
continuing as a non-executive Director at Halma. Similarly, Steve 
Marshall undertook the Executive Chairman role at Balfour Beatty plc 
in May 2014 and found that he could not continue to devote the 
time that is necessary as Remuneration Committee Chairman and 
non-executive Director of Halma. As they both stepped down at the 
conclusion of the July 2014 AGM, the Committee concluded that in 
order to ensure continuity and that an appropriate transition process 
was undergone, with the aim of preserving the Group’s culture, 
Stephen Pettit was invited to remain on the Board until such time as his 
experience of Halma’s culture was embodied in his colleagues and no 
later than the 2015 Annual General Meeting. The Committee subjected 
Stephen Pettit’s reappointment to an even more rigorous review to 
ensure Stephen Pettit’s independence was not compromised and 
that the Board supported his reappointment unanimously.
Following Stephen Pettit’s retirement after the 2015 AGM, and based 
upon the Committee’s recommendations, Tony Rice will assume the 
roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
With Neil Quinn’s resignation from the Board in May 2015, 
the Nomination Committee has the opportunity to give further 
consideration to the executive composition of the Board in light of the 
structural changes made to the Executive Board in April 2014 aligning 
it with the four market sectors. As the structural changes have proven 
successful, we have the luxury of being able to take some time to 
make a considered assessment.
As noted on page 60 and on pages 62 to 64, the process of 
appointments to the Board is paramount in ensuring the Company’s 
performance is maintained and continually improved upon. 
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Paul Walker
Chairman
1 1 June 2015
71 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report
Chairman’s Statement
“ ...the main elements of the 
remuneration policy are 
robust and have stood the 
test of time.”
Stephen Pettit, Remuneration Committee Chairman
Remuneration Committee Chairman Overview
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 28 March 2015.
As set out on page 2, Halma’s strategy is to build a strong 
competitive advantage in specialised safety, health and 
environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers. 
This strategy has long been underpinned by the Group’s 
remuneration framework which balances a short-term cash 
incentive related to improvements in the Economic Value Added 
(EVA) in a financial year with a longer-term share incentive related 
to returns on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) and Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR). 
Remuneration Committee members
 – Paul Walker (Chairman) 
 – Stephen Pettit 
 – Jane Aikman (appointed 10 April 2014)
 – Daniela Barone Soares (appointed 10 April 2014)
 – Roy Twite (appointed 24 July 2014)
 – Tony Rice (appointed 8 August 2014)
Allocation of time %
■ Governance and reporting 36%
■ Remuneration framework 27%
■ Shareholder consultation 24%
■ Incentive targets 8%
■ Equity incentives 4%
■ Pension arrangements 1%
Review of executive remuneration and link to strategy
In late 2014, the Committee conducted the most comprehensive 
review of remuneration practice at Halma for 10 years. I am pleased 
to say that we have concluded that the principles and main elements 
of the remuneration policy are robust and have stood the test of 
time. We have, however, identified areas where our executives’ 
contributions are undervalued, areas where we can better link long 
term performance and reward, and areas where we can improve 
the control framework around executive pay.
The review of our remuneration practice has followed on logically from 
the Board strategy review, which took place in late 2013. This strategy 
review was focused particularly on the scalability and robustness of 
the Halma business model. During this review, it became clear that, 
whilst the fundamental elements of our strategy are sound, the 
company is much larger, has become more complex and requires 
more sophisticated ways of managing it. In April 2014, therefore, we 
announced a new organisational construct of four discrete sectors, 
each with its own Sector CEO, and each a significant business in 
its own right.
This new organisational construct, together with the expiry of the 
10-year life of our present Performance Share Plan in 2015, triggered 
the need for the full review of our remuneration practice.
Halma has enjoyed a high level of continuity of service amongst 
its high performing executive team, which is unusual amongst its 
peers. But this continuity has meant that we have not tested the 
external market for remuneration, because we have not had to 
recruit from outside the business at these senior levels. As part of 
the remuneration review, we have therefore undertaken an external 
benchmarking exercise, with the help of our new remuneration 
advisers. External recruitment of Sector Vice Presidents immediately 
below the Sector CEO level and the benchmarking highlighted the 
fact that our remuneration policy has lagged behind the market in 
important areas and has become uncompetitive, particularly taking 
account of the increased complexity of the business and the 
executives’ roles.
I would like to emphasise that we do not support frequent 
benchmarking of salaries and other elements of remuneration 
for the top team. For the future, we would expect any further 
adjustments to reflect practice for the general Halma workforce, 
barring exceptional circumstances.
The structural changes to the incentive plans provide for a higher 
proportion of long-term share-based remuneration and a tighter 
link between incentive payments and the business strategy. These 
provide a more robust link between what the executives are paid 
and the long-term interests of shareholders. 
72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Rather than try and introduce the review at the same time as the 
changes to the executive structure in April 2014, the Committee 
deferred such a review so that a new policy would apply from April 
2015. This deferral allowed the management changes and, indeed 
Board level changes to the Chairman and non-executive Directors, 
to become embedded and also coincided with the time to renew the 
Company’s Performance Share Plan, which has reached the end of 
its 10-year life. Taking such a period to reflect on what we are trying to 
achieve is sensible and consistent with the Halma operating culture.
The changes that the Committee proposes are detailed within this 
report, but, in formulating these proposals, the Committee ensured 
that any increases to potential earnings were self-financing from the 
additional performance, and continue to be measured objectively 
and transparently. 
As an important part of the remuneration review, the Committee 
consulted the Company’s major shareholders and their representative 
bodies on the proposed changes, which I can summarise as:
 – executive salaries are proposed to increase to align to market 
median levels and then be fixed to workforce inflationary increases 
(barring further significant changes to role and complexity);
 – the annual bonus incentive opportunity will increase from 100% of 
salary to 125%-150% of salary; 
 – one third of any annual bonus earned will be payable in shares and 
deferred for two years;
 – performance share awards will increase from 140% to a maximum 
award limit of 200% (250% in exceptional circumstances) of base 
salary (with awards lower than the 200% level initially other than for 
the CEO);
 – a stretching EPS growth metric will replace the TSR metric in the 
Performance Share Plan;
 – robust recovery and withholding provisions will apply; and
 – shareholding requirements will be introduced at a 200% of base 
salary level for executive Directors.
In addition, during the year we ceased any future accrual within the 
Defined Benefit pension plan on 1 December 2014, through which 
a number of executives accrued benefits.
Remuneration outcomes in 2014/15
The Company has delivered another year of strong performance. 
In particular adjusted profit before tax improved by 10% and with tight 
controls on capital the Economic Value Added performance condition 
generated annual bonus payments to executive Directors of 53% to 
100% of base salary.
Performance was similarly strong over the three-year 
performance period for the Performance Share awards granted 
in the 201 1/12 financial year, with ROTIC averaging at 16.2% and 
total shareholder return of 56.7%, placing Halma in the second 
quartile against our comparator group. Accordingly 73.7% of the 
Performance Share awards vested in August 2014. The performance 
conditions for the awards vesting in August 2015 were met at 
approximately 75% overall when measured at year end.
Shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM
The changes we have made to our remuneration policy require Halma 
to seek binding shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM to approve 
this policy for up to three years from the date of the AGM. There will 
also be the usual advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on 
Remuneration, which focuses on the remuneration outcomes for the 
year under review, and how the Remuneration Committee intends to 
implement the new policy next year. Finally, there will be a separate 
resolution to approve the new Performance Share Plan.
My colleagues on the Remuneration Committee and I hope that you 
are supportive of our new remuneration policy, the Annual Report 
Remuneration and new Performance Share Plan resolutions, which 
have been the product of a rigorous review and investor consultation.
Finally, as announced previously I am retiring from the Board at this 
year’s AGM, with Tony Rice taking over as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee from me.
Stephen Pettit
Remuneration Committee Chairman
1 1 June 2015
73 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy 
This section of the report details the policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2015 
AGM. This policy will formally come into effect from 23 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 AGM, and be effective for up to three years.
Compliance Statement
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’), the Listing Rules and Regulation 
1 1 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board 
has applied the principles relating to Directors’ remuneration in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. As required by the Act, 
resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report 
on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at 
which the financial statements will be approved.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report 
on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration 
for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share 
plan outcomes for the financial year ending 28 March 2015; plan 
interests awarded during the year; pension entitlements; payments 
to past Directors and payments for loss of office; and Directors’ 
shareholdings and share interests. All other parts of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Remuneration Policy
The remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term 
interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives 
needed to manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests 
with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing 
shareholder value. The policy also seeks to reward achievement 
of stretching performance targets without driving unacceptable 
behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Salary
A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope of the 
executive’s responsibilities which attracts and retains high calibre 
talent necessary for the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities. 
Salary is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators 
of similar size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to 
individual performance and contribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the 
review (normally with effect from 1 April). Salaries for the financial year 
under review (and the following year) are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the 
average of the wider employee population other than in exceptional 
circumstances. Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider 
employee population, for example where there is a material change in the 
responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide 
the rationale in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Benefits
To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market.
Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically 
comprise (but are not limited to) a company car, life insurance, 
permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation 
and tax advice for international assignments.
Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be 
appropriate for the role and circumstances of each individual 
executive Director. The maximum value will equate to the reasonable 
market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits (as set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration) would increase materially over the 
period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in 
exceptional circumstances (e.g. relocation expenses or an expatriation 
allowance on recruitment, etc.) or in circumstances where factors outside 
the Company’s control have changed materially (e.g. market increases in 
insurance costs). The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will 
be provided in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Pension 
To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the cash 
allowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity for executives to 
save for their retirement.
Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution 
pension plan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement. 
Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be 
made to some individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and 
length of service.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax 
allowance, the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to 
taxes and social charges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group Defined Benefit 
pension plan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable 
salary which is capped at £155,528 (2014/15: £153,684). The maximum 
contribution rate for executives joining prior to 2014/15 was 27 .5%.
Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the 
executive Director is a former active member of the Defined Benefit 
pension plan. Defined Contribution members whose contributions 
exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, 
on the capped pensionable salary, as a cash supplement.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit 
share component subject to IRS caps. 
Defined Benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a 
maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, 
up to a CPI-indexed cap; £155,528 for 2015/16.
Not applicable
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Salary
A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope of the 
executive’s responsibilities which attracts and retains high calibre 
talent necessary for the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities. 
Salary is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators 
of similar size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to 
individual performance and contribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the 
review (normally with effect from 1 April). Salaries for the financial year 
under review (and the following year) are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the 
average of the wider employee population other than in exceptional 
circumstances. Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider 
employee population, for example where there is a material change in the 
responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide 
the rationale in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Benefits
To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market.
Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically 
comprise (but are not limited to) a company car, life insurance, 
permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation 
and tax advice for international assignments.
Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be 
appropriate for the role and circumstances of each individual 
executive Director. The maximum value will equate to the reasonable 
market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits (as set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration) would increase materially over the 
period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in 
exceptional circumstances (e.g. relocation expenses or an expatriation 
allowance on recruitment, etc.) or in circumstances where factors outside 
the Company’s control have changed materially (e.g. market increases in 
insurance costs). The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will 
be provided in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Not applicable
Pension 
To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the cash 
allowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity for executives to 
save for their retirement.
Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution 
pension plan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement. 
Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be 
made to some individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and 
length of service.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax 
allowance, the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to 
taxes and social charges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group Defined Benefit 
pension plan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable 
salary which is capped at £155,528 (2014/15: £153,684). The maximum 
contribution rate for executives joining prior to 2014/15 was 27 .5%.
Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the 
executive Director is a former active member of the Defined Benefit 
pension plan. Defined Contribution members whose contributions 
exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, 
on the capped pensionable salary, as a cash supplement.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit 
share component subject to IRS caps. 
Defined Benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a 
maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, 
up to a CPI-indexed cap; £155,528 for 2015/16.
Not applicable
The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration 
during the year coincident with the expiry of the life of the current 
Performance Share Plan (PSP). It noted that there were aspects of 
the current policy that work well and should therefore be retained. 
However, it also noted that both the Company and market practice 
have moved on in the past 10 years since the last formal review. 
Accordingly, it concluded that there should be changes to the 
policy to reinforce the link between executive remuneration and 
the Company’s long-term performance so as to enhance the 
executives’ alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders. 
There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive 
Directors, which are summarised in the table below.
75 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy continued
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Annual Incentive 
To incentivise and focus management on the achievement of an 
objective annual target which supports the short- to medium-term 
strategy of the Group.
The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the 
year to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings 
remain appropriately aligned with the Group’s strategy and are 
sufficiently challenging.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with 
reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual 
budget agreed by the Board. At the end of the year, the Committee 
determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of 
shares that is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject 
to continued service.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend 
equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the 
Group and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company 
to recoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error 
or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration 
or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to 
exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within 
the limits of the scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly 
reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders 
and participants.
The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of financial 
performance targets. The primary measure used to determine bonus 
outcomes is EVA, although the Committee may, in its discretion and 
from time to time, supplement EVA with additional financial measures 
that reflect Halma’s strategic priorities for the year, provided any such 
additional measure accounts for no more than 30% of the overall 
bonus opportunity.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the 
financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders 
over a three-year period rewarding them for sustained performance 
against challenging long-term targets; to retain key individuals 
and align interests with shareholders, reflecting the sustainability 
of the business model over the long-term and the creation of 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares 
or a cash equivalent where required by regulation as determined by 
the Committee; awards vest after a period of at least three years 
based on Group performance.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend 
equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting 
period, and only on those shares which vest.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company 
to recoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error 
or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration 
or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of 
an external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
exceed this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% 
of salary.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the 
maximum award.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and the 
Company’s performance over a three-year performance period. 
To the extent performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
The performance measures will be Earnings per Share (EPS) and 
Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), and subject to a minimum 
weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards made 
in the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees 
using HMRC-approved schemes.
The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement. It entitles all UK-
based employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially tax-
advantageous manner.
Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time 
to time.
Not applicable.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience and 
knowledge to contribute to the Board.
Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may 
comprise a base fee, chairmanship fee and Senior Independent 
Director fee.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee.
Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset 
triennially. Increases are effective from 1 April.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and 
fees to NEDs are determined by the Board. The fees are calculated 
by reference to market levels and take account of the time 
commitment and the responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director 
and for being the Chairman of a Board Committee, as appropriate.
Fees are paid in cash.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the year under 
review (and for the following year) are disclosed in the Annual 
Remuneration Report.
Notes to the Policy Table
Payments from Existing Awards
The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and 
implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report, i.e. before 23 July 2015. Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures
The performance measures used in Halma’s executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Group’s strategy and align 
executive interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed (definition is provided on page 83) reinforces the Group’s business objective to 
double Group revenue and profit every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth. Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved 
both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years. Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is 
reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an 
acquisition. Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the PSP , EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, 
and ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors
Annual Incentive 
To incentivise and focus management on the achievement of an 
objective annual target which supports the short- to medium-term 
strategy of the Group.
The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the 
year to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings 
remain appropriately aligned with the Group’s strategy and are 
sufficiently challenging.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with 
reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual 
budget agreed by the Board. At the end of the year, the Committee 
determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of 
shares that is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject 
to continued service.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend 
equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the 
Group and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company 
to recoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error 
or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration 
or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to 
exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within 
the limits of the scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly 
reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders 
and participants.
The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of financial 
performance targets. The primary measure used to determine bonus 
outcomes is EVA, although the Committee may, in its discretion and 
from time to time, supplement EVA with additional financial measures 
that reflect Halma’s strategic priorities for the year, provided any such 
additional measure accounts for no more than 30% of the overall 
bonus opportunity.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the 
financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders 
over a three-year period rewarding them for sustained performance 
against challenging long-term targets; to retain key individuals 
and align interests with shareholders, reflecting the sustainability 
of the business model over the long-term and the creation of 
shareholder value.
Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares 
or a cash equivalent where required by regulation as determined by 
the Committee; awards vest after a period of at least three years 
based on Group performance.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period. Dividend 
equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting 
period, and only on those shares which vest.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company 
to recoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error 
or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration 
or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of 
an external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, 
exceed this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% 
of salary.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the 
maximum award.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and the 
Company’s performance over a three-year performance period. 
To the extent performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
The performance measures will be Earnings per Share (EPS) and 
Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC), and subject to a minimum 
weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards made 
in the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees 
using HMRC-approved schemes.
The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement. It entitles all UK-
based employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially tax-
advantageous manner.
Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time 
to time.
Not applicable.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience and 
knowledge to contribute to the Board.
Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may 
comprise a base fee, chairmanship fee and Senior Independent 
Director fee.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee.
Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset 
triennially. Increases are effective from 1 April.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and 
fees to NEDs are determined by the Board. The fees are calculated 
by reference to market levels and take account of the time 
commitment and the responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director 
and for being the Chairman of a Board Committee, as appropriate.
Fees are paid in cash.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the year under 
review (and for the following year) are disclosed in the Annual 
Remuneration Report.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates. 
Targets are calibrated taking into account a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Group’s strategic plan.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees
Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels 
and the Company’s ability to pay. The Committee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid 
an upward ratchet. 
Executive Board members and other senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme on a similar basis as the executive Directors. A number of senior 
executives also receive PSP awards. Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level. All UK employees are 
eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms. 
Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local market conditions, and are determined to be appropriately competitive.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration
The Committee’s policy is to set pay for new executive Directors and Executive Board members within the existing remuneration policy in order to provide internal 
consistency. The Committee aims to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre. 
77 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy continued
External appointments
In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach
Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the 
individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a period  
of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individual’s development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and any 
necessary expenses relating to an executive’s relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Company’s Defined Contribution pension plan, receive a cash supplement 
or local equivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to 
reflect the proportion of the year employed.
PSP New appointees will be granted awards under the PSP on the same terms as other executives, as described in the policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set in the policy table, 
in exceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it 
appropriate to grant an incentive award under a different structure in 
order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, to replace incentive 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In making 
such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements 
being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so consider 
relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to 
these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the 
remaining vesting period of these awards. 
Internal Appointments
Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of 
internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy 
for external appointees, as detailed above. Where an individual has 
contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, 
the Company will continue to honour those commitments. Incentive 
opportunities for below-Board employees are generally no higher 
than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure 
they are appropriate. 
Share Ownership Guidelines
To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and 
those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to 
progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc 
shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary (2014/15: 100%). 
Until such time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are 
required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any 
vested PSP or deferred share bonus award.
Executive Director Service Contracts and  
Exit Payment Policies
It is the Company’s policy that executive Directors should have 
contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one 
year’s notice. The details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised 
in the table below.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period
Andrew Williams April 2003 One year
Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year
Neil Quinn April 2003 One year*
Adam Meyers July 2008 One year
*   Neil Quinn has resigned from his employment with the Company effective 31 March 2016 and from 
the Board effective 14 May 2015; as such he will not be seeking re-election to the Board at the 
2015 AGM.
The Company’s policy is to limit payments on a cessation to  
pre-established contractual arrangements. In the event that the 
employment of an executive Director is terminated, any amount 
payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the 
service contract between the Company and the employee, as well  
as the rules of any incentive plans. No predetermined amount is 
provided for in the Directors’ contracts. The UK executive Director 
contracts enable the Company to pay up to one year’s salary in lieu  
of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and, 
under the Rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the 
individual’s leaving status for share plan vesting purposes. If the 
financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the 
individual. Adam Meyers’ service contract permits him to remain an 
employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related 
to employment. The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to 
the UK. Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions 
for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, 
the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure 
they are fair to both shareholders and participants. The table below 
summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and PSP are 
treated in specific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan 
and the extent to which the Committee has discretion:
78 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus Death, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, or any other reasons the 
Committee may determine
After the end of the financial 
year, although the Committee 
has discretion to accelerate 
(e.g. in relation to death)
Performance against targets will be 
assessed at the end of the year in the 
normal way and any resulting bonus 
normally will be pro-rated for time 
served during the year
All other reasons Awards lapse
PSP Injury or disability, redundancy, or any 
other reason the Committee may, at its 
discretion, determine
On the third anniversary of 
the award
Awards will normally be pro-rated 
for time to the date of cessation of 
employment and performance metrics 
assessed as at the third anniversary
Death Immediately (unless otherwise 
determined by the Committee 
at its discretion)
Any outstanding awards normally will 
be pro-rated for time and performance 
up to the point of death
All other reasons Awards lapse
Pay-for-Performance: Scenario Analysis
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future 
rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between 
different elements of pay, under three different performance 
scenarios: ‘Fixed’, ‘On-target’ and ‘Maximum’. 
Potential reward opportunities are based on Halma’s remuneration 
policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2015. In the case of the 
Chief Executive, Finance Director and other executive Directors 
this assumes a PSP award level of 200%, 175% and 150% of salary 
respectively (which is the basis on which the policy will be applied In 
the first year). The projected values exclude the impact of any share 
price movements and dividend equivalents. 
The ‘Fixed’ scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
The ‘On-target’ scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a 
target pay out of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus and 
vesting of 50% of a single year’s award under the PSP .
The ‘Maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum 
payout of annual bonus and PSP awards.
Andrew Williams, Chief Executive
Percentages/amounts £000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
783 100%
1,923 28% 31% 41%
2,883 42% 31% 27%
Kevin Thompson, Finance Director
Percentages/amounts £000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
487 100%
1,152 29% 29% 42%
1,705 38% 33% 29%
Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive – Medical
Percentages/amounts £000
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
312 100%
749 29% 29% 42%
1,113 39% 33% 28%
Fixed Annual incentive PSP
79 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Remuneration Policy continued
Non-executive Directors
Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors (NEDs) 
have a specific three-year term of engagement, subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM, which may be renewed for further three-year 
terms if both the Director and the Board agree. The remuneration of 
the Chairman and the NEDs is determined by the Committee and the 
Board in accordance with the shareholder approval policy.
The contract in respect of the Chairman’s services provides for 
termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months’ 
notice. The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of 
their services, which can be terminated, by either party, by giving 
not less than three months’ notice.
Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are 
included below. 
Non-executive  
Director
Date of  
appointment
Notice  
period
Paul Walker April 2013 6 months
Stephen Pettit September 2003 3 months*
Jane Aikman August 2007 3 months
Daniela Barone Soares November 201 1 3 months
Roy Twite July 2014 3 months
Tony Rice August 2014 3 months
*   Stephen Pettit has given notice of his intention to retire from the Board effective at the close of the 
2015 AGM. As such, he is not seeking re-election to the Board. 
NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not 
eligible to join the Company’s pension plan or participate in any 
incentive schemes. Any reasonable expenses that they incur in 
performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
Paul Walker’s personal assistant is an employee of the Company. 
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on 
pages 76 and 77 .
NED Recruitment
In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the 
policy as set out in the table on pages 76 and 77 . 
Considerations of Conditions Elsewhere in the Group 
The Committee considers the remuneration and employment 
conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration 
for executive Directors. However, the Committee does not 
currently consult specifically with employees on the executive 
remuneration policy.
Considerations of Shareholder Views 
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account 
the views of our shareholders and ‘best practice’ guidelines set by 
shareholder representative bodies. As part of their consideration of 
the new remuneration policy the Committee consulted widely with the 
Company’s major institutional shareholders and their representative 
bodies. The Committee always welcomes feedback from 
shareholders on the Company’s remuneration policy. Detail on the 
votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration at the prior annual general meeting is 
provided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
External Directorships
The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be 
invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed 
companies which have no business relationship with the Company 
and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge 
to Halma’s benefit.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment 
with the prior approval of the Chairman. Approval will only be given 
where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest 
with the Group’s activities and the wider exposure gained will be 
beneficial to the development of the individual. Where fees are 
payable in respect of such appointments, these are retained by 
the executive Director.
During the year, Andrew Williams was appointed a non-executive 
director of Capita plc. Fees paid to him during the period to 
28 March 2015 were £16,000.
80 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Remuneration Report
The following section provides details of how Halma’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ending 28 March 2015, 
and how it will be implemented in 2015/16.
The Remuneration Committee
The primary responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to:
 – Make recommendations to the Board on the framework for 
executive Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration based on 
proposals formulated by the CEO;
 – Determine and agree with the Board the policy and framework for 
the remuneration of the Chairman, CEO, other executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary and members of the Executive Board;
 – Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance-
related pay plans operated by the Company and agree the total 
annual payments made under such plans;
 – Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the 
Board and shareholders, and determine, each year, whether 
awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, 
the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior 
executives and the performance targets to be set; and
 – Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for 
each executive Director and other senior executives.
The Committee also monitors and considers, with the CEO, the 
framework of remuneration for subsidiary CEOs and directors and 
ensures a consistent approach is applied.
The full terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website 
or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
As at 28 March 2015, the Committee comprised the following 
non-executive Directors:
 – Stephen Pettit (Chairman)
 – Paul Walker 
 – Jane Aikman (from 10 April 2014)
 – Daniela Barone Soares (from 10 April 2014)
 – Tony Rice (from 24 July 2014)
 – Roy Twite (from 8 August 2014)
Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell were members of the 
Committee during the year, until their retirement from the Board  
at the July 2014 annual general meeting.
All members of the Committee are considered independent within  
the definition set out in the Code. None of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest in Halma (other than as shareholders), 
conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships or day-to-day 
involvement in running the business.
During the year the Committee met formally four times. Attendance 
by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance section on page 60.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee 
meetings. The CEO and Company Secretary attend the Committee’s 
meetings by invitation, but are not present when their own remuneration 
is discussed. The Committee also takes independent professional 
advice as required.
External Advisers
New Bridge Street acted as the independent remuneration 
adviser to the Committee during the latter part of the year, having 
been appointed by the Committee in October 2014; prior to that 
date, Kepler Associates advised the Committee. New Bridge 
Street (NBS) attends Committee meetings, as appropriate, and 
provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all 
elements of the remuneration policy and regular market and best 
practice updates. NBS reports directly to the Committee Chairman 
and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration 
Consultants of UK-listed companies (which can be found at  
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). NBS provides no 
other  services to the Company, and is therefore considered 
independent. NBS’s fees for the year were £47 ,000.
Shareholder Vote at 2014 annual general meeting
The following table shows the results of the voting at the 24 July 2014 annual general meeting.
For Against Total Withheld
Remuneration Policy
Number of votes cast 261,662,093 2,751,401 264,413,494 7,524,717
% of votes cast 99.0% 1.0% 100%
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total number of votes 268,861,782 728,429 269,590,211 2,348,001
% of votes cast 99.7% 0.3% 100%
81 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Single Figure of Total Remuneration for Directors
The tables below set out the single figure of total remuneration received by Directors for the year to 28 March 2015 and the prior year. 
2015
Executive Directors
Salary
1
 
£000
Benefits
2
 
£000
Pension
3
£000
Annual
bonus
4
 
£000
PSP
5
£000
SOS/SIP
6
£000
Total 
remuneration 
£000
Andrew Williams 515 27 134 271 743 180 1,870
Kevin Thompson 330 14 186 173 514 256 1,473
Adam Meyers
7
279 9 12 270 432 170 1,172
Non-executive Directors
Paul Walker
8
180 – – – – – 180
Stephen Pettit 59 – – – – – 59
Jane Aikman 56 – – – – – 56
Daniela Barone Soares 48 – – – – – 48
Roy Twite
8
33 – – – – – 33
Tony Rice
8
31 – – – – – 31
Past Directors
Norman Blackwell
9
16 – – – – – 16
Steve Marshall
9
18 – – – – – 18
Neil Quinn
10
250 14 – 250 372 225 1,111
6,067
2014
Executive Directors
Salary
1
 
£000
Benefits
2
 
£000
Pension
3
£000
Annual
bonus
4
 
£000
PSP
5
£000
SOS/SIP
6
£000
Total 
remuneration 
£000
Andrew Williams 482 27 146 178 707 3 1,543
Kevin Thompson 310 14 101 114 443 3 985
Adam Meyers
7
261 12 12 105 379 – 769
Non-executive Directors
Paul Walker
8
133 – – – – – 133
Stephen Pettit 55 – – – – – 55
Jane Aikman 52 – – – – – 52
Daniela Barone Soares 45 – – – – – 45
Past Directors
Geoff Unwin
8
44 – – – – – 44
Norman Blackwell
9
50 – – – – – 50
Steve Marshall
9
54 – – – – – 54
Neil Quinn
10
241 14 – 235 346 3 839
4,569
1 
Salary: amount earned for the year.
2 
Benefits: company car and private medical insurance.
3  
Pension: value based on increase in accrued pensions (net of inflation) multiplied by a factor of 20, and/or the Company’s pension contribution during the year. Neil Quinn had reached the Normal 
Retirement Date and therefore no future pension contribution or cash supplement was payable.
4 
Annual bonus: payment for performance during the year. 
5 
PSP: the value of awards vesting on performance during the years ending 28 March 2015 (estimated) and 29 March 2014 (actual). 
6 
SOS: gains on awards vesting in the period; SIP: valued based on the face value of shares at grant.
7 
Remunerated in US dollars and translated at the average exchange rate for the year (2015: US$1.61; 2014: US$1.59).
8 
Paul Walker was appointed to the Board on 12 April 2013 and the Chairman of the Board on 25 July 2013. Geoff Unwin retired from the Board on 25 July 2013.
9 
Norman Blackwell and Steve Marshall retired from the Board on 24 July 2014.
10 
Neil Quinn retired from the Board on 14 May 2015.
82 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Other Payments
No payments were made to former Directors after their retirement, nor were any payments made on cessation during the year under review.
Incentive Outcomes for 2015
Annual bonus in respect of 2015
In 2015, the maximum bonus opportunity for executive Directors was 100% of salary, linked to performance as measured by an Economic 
Value Added (EVA) calculation (100%). 
For the CEO and FD, bonuses are calculated based on Group profit exceeding a target calculated from the profits for the three preceding 
financial years after charging cost of capital, including the cost of acquisitions. As the EVA for each year is utilised for a further three years in 
the comparator calculations, executives must consider the medium-term interests of the Group otherwise there is the potential for an adverse 
impact on their capacity to earn a bonus.
EVA calculation:
Profit for  
each year
Minus
A charge on cost  
of acquisitions
Minus
A charge on 
working capital
Plus/minus
Unrealised profit  
in inventory
Minus
The resultant bonus 
itself (to make it 
self-financing)
Equals
The EVA for  
each year
In the case of a Sector CEO, a bonus is earned if the profit of the sector for which they are responsible exceeds a target calculated from the 
profits of the three preceding financial years. The profits calculated for this purpose regard each sector as a stand-alone group of companies 
charging it with the cost of capital it utilises including the cost of acquisitions.
Bonuses for 2015 are based on the sectoral allocation that existed throughout 2015. Transitional provisions exist for restructuring to ensure 
Sector CEOs remain appropriately incentivised. Subsidiary executives participate in bonus arrangements similar to those established for 
senior executives.
Further details of the bonuses paid and performance against targets are provided in the tables below.
Executive Director
EVA 
threshold 
000
EVA 
actual 
000
Overall 
bonus 
outcome 
(% of salary)
EVA 
maximum 
000
Andrew Williams £84,160 £97,236 53% £102,306
Kevin Thompson £84,160 £97,236 53% £102,316
Neil Quinn £29,959 £37,096 100% £36,922
Adam Meyers $27,804 $34,680 97% $34,806
No discretion was applied by the Committee in determining the annual bonus outcome calculation for 2015. The EVA maximum column 
represents the EVA performance at which 100% of salary is payable as a bonus (the maximum for 2014/15).
83 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Performance Share Plan (PSP): 2012 Awards (vesting during the year to 2 April 2016)
In August 2012, the executive Directors received awards of performance shares under the PSP . The performance targets for the 2012 awards 
are illustrated below and the vesting criteria are 50% TSR-related and 50% ROTIC-related.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2012/13 to 2014/15
Percentage of award  
which vests
TSR (percentile)
<50% 50% ≥75%
ROTIC  
(post-tax)
≤ 9.5% 0% 16.7% 50.0%
12.0% 16.7% 33.3% 66.7%
14.5% 33.3% 50.0% 83.3%
17.0% 50% 66.7% 100%
The three-year period over which these two independent performance metrics is measured ends on 1 August 2015. ROTIC is 16. 10% (the 
average ROTIC for 2013, 2014 and 2015) and TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding financial companies was 59th percentile through year 
end, which results in vesting of 75% of the maximum award. The vesting estimate included in the single figure of Total Remuneration for 
Directors for 2015 is detailed in the table below:
Executive Director
Interest 
held
Face value 
at grant 
£000
Vesting 
%
Interest 
vesting
Average price 
at year end
Vesting 
value  
£000
Andrew Williams 141,658 572
75%
106,244
698.93p
743
Kevin Thompson 98,066 396 73,550 514
Neil Quinn 70,954 286 53,216 372
Adam Meyers 82,408 333 61,806 437
Vested awards are satisfied in shares with sufficient shares being sold to meet tax and social costs owing, at the recipient’s direction, and the 
net balance of shares transferred to the individual. Awards lapse if they do not vest on the third anniversary of their award.
Performance Share Plan: Awards (granted during 2014/15)
On 12 August 2014, the executive Directors were granted awards under the PSP , the size of which reflects an assessment of each individual 
executive’s achievement of their objectives (agreed at the start of the 2014 financial year). 
Executive Director
Awards 
made during 
the year
Market price at 
date of award
Face value 
at date of 
award
Face value 
at date of 
award (% of 
salary)
Maximum 
award 
permitted
Andrew Williams 117,748
569.9p
£671,046 130.3% 140%
Kevin Thompson 77,829 £443,547 134.4% 140%
Neil Quinn 59,203 £337,398 135.5% 140%
Adam Meyers 62,821 £358,017 126.5% 140%
The percentages above are relative to base salaries. 
The three-year performance period over which ROTIC performance will be measured is April 2014 to March 2017 . TSR performance is 
measured between 1 May 2014 and 1 August 2017 due to three-month averaging of TSR at 1 August 2014 being compared to the three-
month average at 1 August 2017 . The ROTIC element will be based on the average ROTIC for 2015, 2016 and 2017 . The award is eligible to 
vest in its entirety on the third anniversary of the date of grant (i.e. 12 August 2017), subject to 50% on ROTIC and 50% on TSR performance. 
The independent performance targets applicable to awards granted in 2014 are as stated above for awards made from 2012/13 to 2014/15.
84 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2016
Salary
The Committee conducted a consultation of the top 10 shareholders in February and March 2015. The consultation was highlighted as 
necessary in last year’s report to shareholders and was deferred until this year in order to accommodate changes in the Board constitution 
and to coincide with the necessity to replace the Performance Share Plan. As stated last year, the Committee had identified that, whilst 
Halma’s performance had been strong in recent years, salaries for Halma’s executive Directors (and the value of the total package) were not 
competitive for a group of Halma’s size and complexity. The Committee believed it was appropriate to move salaries above market lower 
quartile and closer to a market median level. The robust review conducted this year makes those necessary adjustments; for the remainder 
of the policy period, it is anticipated that salary increases will align with those awarded across the Group more generally. The Committee 
recognises the need to continue to exercise restraint on executive remuneration, and notes that the resulting packages remain at or below 
median for companies of our size and sector. Therefore, the Committee approved the following salary increases with effect from 1 April 2015. 
By way of comparison, the average salary increase across the sectors for 2016 was between 2% and 4%.
Executive Director
Salary from 
 1 April 2015 
Salary from  
1 April 2014 % change
Andrew Williams £600,000 £515,000 16.5%
Kevin Thompson £375,000 £330,000 13.6%
Neil Quinn* £250,000 £250,000 –%
Adam Meyers $470,000 $450,000 4.4%
*    As mentioned above, Neil Quinn has given the Company notice of his resignation effective 31 March 2016. Accordingly he will be paid his salary to that date and be entitled to receive a pro rata bonus and 
will not be receiving a PSP award for 2015/16. PSP awards from earlier years will vest on their third anniversary and be subject to pro-ration for service and performance conditions always subject to good 
leaver status being confirmed.
Pension and benefits
No change to the executive Directors’ current pension and benefits arrangements is anticipated for 2015/16.
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity 2016 will increase to 150% for the Group CEO and FD and 125% for other executive Directors 
(2015: 100%) with one third being payable in shares which are deferred for two years.
Bonuses will continue to be based on EVA performance against a weighted average target of EVA for the past three years for an executive’s 
sector, in the case of a Sector CEO, or the Group, in the case of the Group CEO and FD. 
Bonus payments will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions during a period of three years from the date of payment.
PSP
Subject to shareholder approval, PSP awards will be made after the 2015 AGM. The number of shares over which awards will be made is 
determined by the share price leading up to the award, but the value of each award, relative to salary has been fixed as follows:
Executive Director
Salary for 
2015/16 
PSP  
fixed award
Value of
2015 award
Andrew Williams £600,000 200% £1,200,000
Kevin Thompson £375,000 175% £656,250
Adam Meyers $470,000 150% $705,000
The PSP awards to be granted in August 2015 will be subject to an earnings per share performance target for 50% of the award and a ROTIC 
target for 50% of the award. The performance targets are set out below:
Performance targets for 2015/16 PSP award
ROTIC* (post tax) % of award vesting**
<11.0% 0%
11.0% 12.5%
17 .0% or more 50%
* Average ROTIC over the performance period.
** There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting. 
EPS* % of award vesting**
<5% 0%
5% 12.5%
12% or more 50%
* Adjusted earnings per share growth over the three-year performance period.
** There is straight line vesting in between threshold and maximum vesting.
85 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
The Chairman’s and the NEDs’ fees, as detailed below, were last increased by the Board in April 2014. Fees are subject to an annual review 
each April, but resetting is expected to be triennial. The next resetting is anticipated to be in 2016.
Fees
Fees from 
1 April 2015
Fees from 
1 April 2014
Chairman £180,000 £180,000
Base fee £48,000 £48,000
Senior Independent Director £5,000 £5,000
Audit Committee Chair £7,500 £7,500
Remuneration Committee Chair £7,500 £7,500
Committee Member £nil £nil
The committee membership fee was consolidated into the base fee with effect from 1 April 2014 and appropriate adjustments made to 
committee chair fees.
Percentage Change in CEO Remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the CEO’s remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change 
in remuneration for other employees. To provide a meaningful comparison, the analysis includes only salaried management employees and 
is based on a consistent set of employees, i.e. the same individuals appear in the 2015 and 2014 populations.
2015 2014
CEO
£000
CEO
£000
CEO 
% change
Other 
employees 
% change
Salary 515 482 6.8% 6.4%
Taxable benefits 27 27 –% –%
Annual bonus 271 178 52.2% 44.5%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share 
buybacks) from the financial year ended 29 March 2014 to the financial year ended 28 March 2015.
2015  
£m
2014  
£m % change
Distribution to shareholders 45.3 42.2 7.1%
Employee remuneration (gross) 199.8 180.9 10.4%
Employee remuneration (pro-rated) 199.8 192.9 3.6%
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 28 March 2015 of 7 .31p per share (2014: 6.82p).
Pro-rated employee remuneration represents a restatement of the prior year employee remuneration for the current year number 
of employees.
Pay for performance
The six-year graph on the next page shows the Company’s TSR performance over the six years to 28 March 2015 as compared to the 
FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment indices. Over the period indicated, the Company’s TSR was 525% compared 
to 318% for the FTSE 250 and 507% for the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment Index.
The FTSE 250 has been selected as a broad market comparator, and the FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment index has been 
selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies of this index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they 
are affected by similar commercial and economic factors to Halma. The table below the chart details the CEO’s single figure remuneration 
and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
86 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Total Shareholder Return (six years)
Outperforming the market – T otal Shareholder Return (six years)
50%
100%
150%
200%
250%
300%
350%
400%
450%
500%
550%
Mar-2013 Mar-2014 Mar-2015 Mar-2011 Mar-2012 Mar-2010 Mar-2009
■ Halma
■ FTSE 250
■ FTSE 350 Electronic & Electronic Equipment
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CEO single figure remuneration (£000) £1,472 £1,999 £1,715 £1,958 £1,543 £1,870
Annual bonus outcome (% of maximum) 19% 100% 40% 48% 37% 53%
PSP vesting outcome (% of maximum) 96% 100% 100% 98% 74% 75%
Directors’ Interests in Halma Shares
The interests of the Directors in office at 28 March 2015 and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company at the following dates were 
as follows:
Shares  
28 March 2015
Shares  
29 March 2014
Paul Walker 30,000 30,000
Andrew Williams 541,130 522,029
Kevin Thompson 369,112 357,711
Stephen Pettit 2,000 2,000
Neil Quinn 311,865 301,264
Jane Aikman 2,000 2,000
Adam Meyers 318,480 296,953
Daniela Barone Soares 1,319 1,319
Roy Twite 2,000 –
Tony Rice 7,665 –
The executive Directors each meet the new guideline for 2015/16 of holding Company shares to the value of at least two times salary (2015 
and prior: one times salary). Roy Twite and Tony Rice held no interests in the Company’s shares upon their appointment. There are no other 
non-beneficial interests of Directors. There were no changes in Directors’ interests from 28 March 2015 to 1 1 June 2015.
87 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Details of Directors’ interests in shares and options under Halma long-term incentives are set out in the sections below.
Directors’ Interests in Halma Share Plans
Details of Directors’ outstanding performance shares under the PSP free shares under the SIP and share options under the Share Option 
Plan) are outlined in the tables below.
Date of grant
As at  
29 March 2014
Granted/(vested)  
in the year
Five-day average 
share price on 
grant (p)
As at  
28 March 2015
Performance Share Plan
Andrew Williams 12 Aug 11 164,912 (121,526) 362.34 –
8 Aug 12 141,658 403.70 141,658
7 Aug 13 114,646 557.60 114,646
12 Aug 14 117,748 569.90 117,748
Kevin Thompson 12 Aug 11 103,571 (76,322) 362.34 –
8 Aug 12 98,066 403.70 98,066
7 Aug 13 71,041 557.60 71,041
12 Aug 14 77,829 569.90 77,829
Neil Quinn 12 Aug 11 80,810 (59,549) 362.34 –
8 Aug 12 70,954 403.70 70,954
7 Aug 13 57,054 557.60 57,054
12 Aug 14 59,203 569.90 59,203
Adam Meyers 12 Aug 11 88,552 (65,255) 362.34 –
8 Aug 12 82,408 403.70 82,408
7 Aug 13 62,767 557.60 62,767
12 Aug 14 62,821 569.90 62,821
The performance conditions for PSP shares awarded in August 201 1 differ from those awarded in August 2012, 2013 and 2014. 
The performance conditions attached to the latter awards are outlined on page 84. The August 201 1 awards had the same performance 
conditions as the 2012 to 2014 awards; however, the ROTIC vesting range began at 9.5% and fully rested at 14.0%.
As at year end, the vesting expectations for grants made in 2012 is 75%; for grants made 2013, 84%, and for grants made in 2014, 89%.
88 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Date of grant
As at 
29 March 2014
Granted/
(withdrawn) in 
the year
Share price  
on award
(p)
As at 
28 March 2015
Share Incentive Plan
Andrew Williams 1 Oct 10 857 319.60 857
1 Oct 11 921 315.60 921
1 Oct 12 695 431.10 695
1 Oct 13 528 567.50 528
1 Oct 14 601 598.50 601
Kevin Thompson 1 Oct 10 882 319.60 882
1 Oct 11 949 315.60 949
1 Oct 12 695 431.10 695
1 Oct 13 528 567.50 528
1 Oct 14 601 598.50 601
Neil Quinn 1 Oct 10 882 319.60 882
1 Oct 11 949 315.60 949
1 Oct 12 695 431.10 695
1 Oct 13 528 567.50 528
1 Oct 14 601 598.50 601
The SIP shares are held in an external trust and become the employee’s absolutely after three years. There are tax benefits for retaining the 
shares in the trust for at least five years.
Details of Directors’ outstanding share options as at 28 March 2015 are outlined in the table below.
As at 
29 March 2014
Exercised in 
the year
As at
28 March 2015
Gain on 
exercise
(£)
Share Option Plan
Andrew Williams 39,367 (39,367) – 176,725
Kevin Thompson 56,239 (56,239) – 252,466
Neil Quinn 49,209 (49,209) – 220,908
Adam Meyers 69,470 (69,470) – 343,955
There were no share option grants or lapses during the financial year. 
After publication of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the upper quartile EPS performance condition was met and Directors’ share 
options over 182,878 shares, at an exercise price of 142.25p, were exercised on 24 June 2014 at a price of 591. 17p per share.
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors’ 
shareholdings and share options. There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during 
the financial year.
89 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Remuneration Committee Report continued
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ pensions
As noted below, two UK executive Directors are deferred members of the Halma Group Pension Plan (‘Plan’). Their benefit is a funded final 
salary occupational pension from a plan registered with HMRC providing a maximum pension of two thirds of final pensionable salary after 
25 or more years’ service at normal pension age (60). Up to 5 April 2006, final pensionable salary was the greatest salary of the last three 
complete tax years immediately before retirement or leaving service. From 6 April 201 1, final pensionable salary was capped at £139, 185 
and is increased annually thereafter by CPI (currently £155,528).
Bonuses and other fluctuating emoluments and benefits-in-kind are not pensionable nor subject to any pension supplement. The Plan also 
provides for life cover of three times salary, pensions in the event of early retirement through ill-health and dependants’ pensions of one-half 
of the member’s prospective pension. Where an executive has a form of pension protection, life cover is provided by a separate trust.
Early retirement pensions, currently possible from age 55 with the consent of the Company and the trustees of the Plan, are subject to 
actuarial reduction. Pensions in payment increase by 3% per annum for service up to 5 April 1997 , by price inflation (subject to a maximum 
of 5%) through to 31 March 2007 and 3% thereafter.
UK executive Directors receive pension supplements to compensate them for the fact that their pension accrual entitlement under the Halma 
Group Pension Plan is limited by the pensionable salary cap introduced from 6 April 2006 or the Lifetime Allowance. The Company introduced 
a pensionable salary cap in order to address changes affecting the Plan made in the Pension Act 2006. 
During the year, the Company closed the DB section to future accrual with effect from 1 December 2014. The Company obtains external 
advice regarding the changes to the Plan and executive pension arrangements and provides educational seminars on the impact of pension 
legislation changes (annual and lifetime allowances) on individuals. Otherwise, executive Directors are responsible for obtaining advice specific 
to their circumstances.
Prior to drawing his pension, to the extent that an executive’s current salary exceeds the Plan salary cap, the Company compensates him at 
an annual rate of 26% of the excess. In April 2006, Kevin Thompson chose to cease future service accrual in the Plan in return for the pension 
supplement on his full salary. In April 2014, Andrew Williams chose to cease future service accrual in the Plan in return for the pension 
supplement on his full salary. This change is, broadly, cost neutral.
Neil Quinn has reached the Normal Retirement Date and is drawing his pension, therefore no future pension contribution or cash supplement 
is payable.
Two Directors accrued benefits under the Company’s Defined Benefit pension plan during the year as follows.
Executive Director
Age at 
28 March 2015
Years of 
pensionable 
service at 
28 March 2015
Increase in 
accrued benefits 
£000
Increase in 
accrued benefits 
net of inflation 
£000
Accrued benefits 
at 28 March 2015
 £000
Andrew Williams 47 20 – 1 61
Kevin Thompson 55 18 5 1 118
The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60 based on service to the end of the year.
Executive Director
Transfer value at 
29 March 2014 
£000
Transfer value at 
28 March 2015 
£000
Director 
contribution 
in the year 
£000
Transfer value 
increase/
(decrease) after 
deducting Director 
contribution 
£000
Andrew Williams 864 1,149 – 1,149
Kevin Thompson 2,262 2,599 – 2,599
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director. Instead they represent a potential liability 
of the pension plan. The transfer values are Gilt-related and depend upon the relative standings of the Gilt market at the respective valuation 
dates. The increase in transfer values in recent years is predominantly due to the significant reduction in the yields available on UK Gilts. Other 
factors that have increased the transfer values are the impact of any additional service, revaluation in line with inflation and any real salary 
increases as well as the anticipated ageing of the member. These values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance 
with Actuarial Guidance Note GN1 1.
Adam Meyers is a member of the US 401k money purchase scheme. Company contributions paid in the year were $18,863 (£1 1,716) 
(2014: $18,600 (£1 1,698)).
90 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Other Statutory Information
Activities
Halma plc is a holding company. A list of its principal subsidiary 
companies and their activities is set out on pages 160 to 163.
Ordinary dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7 .31p per share and, 
if approved, this dividend will be paid on 19 August 2015 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 July 2015. 
Together with the interim dividend of 4.65p per share already paid, 
this will make a total of 11.96p (2014: 11.17p) per share for the 
financial year.
Share capital and capital structure
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements 
in the share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the 
accounts. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which 
carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no other classes of share capital. There are no specific 
restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with 
both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association 
and prevailing legislation. No person has any special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at  
general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more 
proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, one or more 
corporate representatives. On a show of hands, each holder of 
ordinary shares who (being an individual) is present in person or 
(being a corporation) is present by a duly appointed corporate 
representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote,  
as shall proxies (unless they are appointed by more than one holder, 
in which case they may vote both for and against the resolution in 
accordance with the holders’ instructions). On a poll every holder of 
ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote  
for every share of which he is the holder. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 
48 hours before the meeting. A holder of ordinary shares can lose  
the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has 
been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide  
the Company with information concerning interests held in those 
shares. Except as set out above and as permitted under applicable 
statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given 
percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated  
share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent 
dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open  
and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share. 
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated 
share unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) lodged, duly stamped  
(if necessary), at the registered office of the Company or any other 
place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the 
share(s) to be transferred and/or such other evidence as the Directors 
may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make  
the transfer; (ii) in respect of only one class of shares; (iii) in favour of 
a person who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound 
mind; or (iv) in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using  
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing  
the operation of CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider trading laws); or 
where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Company’s 
certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has 
failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests 
in those shares. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Treasury shares
Shares held in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible 
for dividends.
Employee share plans
Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
The Company’s existing Performance Share Plan (the ‘2005 PSP’) 
will reach the end of its 10-year life in 2015. This resolution therefore 
seeks approval to introduce a new Executive Share Plan to replace 
the 2005 PSP . The new Plan will share many of the features of the 
2005 PSP but has been updated to reflect current legislation, best 
practice and corporate governance requirements including recovery 
and withholding provisions. In addition, the new Plan will include 
flexibility to grant performance-related share awards, other share 
awards and deferred bonus awards.
The new Plan will be used primarily to grant performance-related 
awards and deferred bonus awards to executive Directors and 
selected senior employees. The Remuneration Committee believes 
that the ability to continue to grant long term share-based incentives 
as part of a balanced remuneration package will create a strong 
alignment of long term interest between senior management 
and shareholders.
No awards have been made under the 2005 PSP in 2015. It is 
intended that initial performance awards will be made to executive 
Directors and selected senior management shortly following 
shareholder approval of the Plan. The first grants of the deferred 
bonus awards will be made in 2016, following determination of 
bonuses for the 2015/16 financial year.
Dilution limits
The existing PSP has awarded shares, before lapses, over a ten-year 
period totalling 4.0% of the Company’s issued share capital; this is 
within the 10.0% overall limit and the 7 .5% limit for discretionary share 
awards agreed in 2005. The Company has utilised treasury shares to 
satisfy all such awards.
The new 2015 Executive Share Plan provides that overall dilution 
through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes 
(including treasury shares) should not exceed an amount equivalent 
to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a ten-year period 
and for discretionary share awards to senior management 5% over a 
ten-year period. As at the date of this report, the Company remains 
within these limits.
Appointment and replacement of directors
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors,  
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related 
legislation. Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary 
resolution at a general meeting or by the Board. If a Director is 
appointed by the Board, such Director will hold office until the next 
annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for election at  
that meeting. Therefore, in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code each of the Directors, being eligible, will offer 
themselves for election or re-election at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting. The Company can remove a Director from office, including 
by passing a special resolution or by notice being given by all the 
other Directors. The Articles themselves may be amended by 
special resolution of the shareholders.
91 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Power of Directors
The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved  
for the Board, copies of which are available on request from the 
Company Secretary, and the Corporate Governance Report on 
pages 59 to 65.
Essential contracts and change of control
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan 
agreements and employee share plans.
The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that 
governing the £360m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if 
within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can 
result in 30 days’ notice being given to the Company by any Lender, 
for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due 
and payable, at which time the commitment of that Lender will 
be cancelled. If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility 
would be cancelled.
The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of 
suppliers. The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual 
arrangements with any particular customer. Whilst the loss or 
disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily  
affect the Group’s business, none is considered to be essential.
The Company’s share plans contain provisions as a result of which 
options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change 
of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company 
and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss 
of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Allotment authority
Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if 
authorised by shareholders to do so. At the Annual General Meeting 
an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise 
the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £12,500,000 (up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p 
each), being just less than one third of the issued share capital of the 
Company (excluding treasury shares) as at 8 June 2015 (the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting).
In accordance with the Directors’ stated intention to seek annual 
renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual 
general meeting of the Company in 2016. Passing this resolution  
will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of 
shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
As at 8 June 2015 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication 
of the Notice of Meeting), the Company had 379,645,332 ordinary 
shares of 10p each in issue of which 1,371,785 were held as treasury 
shares, which is equal to approximately 0.36% of the issued share 
capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares) as at that date.
The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues 
new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer 
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings. 
At the Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed 
which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number 
of shares for cash and/or sell treasury shares without offering them to 
shareholders first. The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount 
of up to 10% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share 
capital of the Company as at 8 June 2015 (the latest practicable date 
prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting). The resolution will 
also modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory 
or practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other 
pre-emptive offer or issue. The authority will expire at the same time 
as the resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares. 
The Directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them 
flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the 
restrictions contained in the resolution. There are no present plans 
to issue shares, except under share plans previously approved in 
general meeting.
Directors
The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout 
the year, with brief biographies, are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the 
current Directors, which remain in force at the date of this report. 
These are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Purchase of the Company’s own shares
The Company was authorised at the 2014 annual general meeting to 
purchase up to 37 ,700,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the 
market. This authority expires at the end of the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting. In accordance with the Directors’ stated intention to seek 
annual renewal, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting to renew this authority, until the end of next year’s 
annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37 ,700,000 ordinary 
shares, which is approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital (excluding treasury shares) as at 8 June 2015 (the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting). 
The Directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making  
such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the 
authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash 
or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share 
plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be 
decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase. The effect of  
any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue. 
For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if 
they have been cancelled (for example, they carry no voting rights  
and do not rank for dividends).
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) at the 2005 
annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue 
to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding 
in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP . In the year to 
28 March 2015, 1,076,865 shares, with a nominal value of £107 ,686.50, 
which is 0.36% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 8 June 
2015 (the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice 
of Meeting), were purchased in the market for treasury. Under the 
proposed 2015 Executive Share Plan, shares vesting may be satisfied 
with market purchased shares held in trust or in treasury or with new 
issue shares. Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of 
using this authority. In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the 
Directors will take into account the Company’s cash resources, 
capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the 
Company’s earnings per share. It is anticipated that renewal of the 
authority will be requested at subsequent annual general meetings.
As at 8 June 2015, which is the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of the Notice of Meeting, no further options were outstanding.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 July 2015. 
The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the proposed 
resolutions, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts and is 
also available on the Company’s website at www.halma.com.
Other Statutory Information continued
92 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Substantial shareholdings
On 8 June 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance with 
chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following 
voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
28 March 2015 8 June 2015
No. of ordinary 
shares
Percentage of 
voting rights 
and issued 
share capital
No. of ordinary 
shares
Percentage of 
voting rights 
and issued 
share capital
Nature of 
holdings
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 37,841,275 10.00 37,841,275 10.00 Indirect
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 18,776,510 4.96 18,776,510 4.96 Indirect
Norges Bank 11,338,891 3.00 11,338,891 3.94 Direct
BlackRock Inc 14,646,007 3.87 14,646,007 3.87 Indirect
Mawer Investment Management 15,149,012 4.00 15,149,012 4.00 Direct
Capital Group 15,431,693 4.08 17,340,346 4.58 Indirect
Special Business
The Board will propose four special resolutions under Special 
Business at the Annual General Meeting. One of these is to permit 
the Company to retain the ability to call general meetings (other than 
annual general meetings) at 14 days’ notice rather than 21 days’ 
notice, in accordance with the EU Shareholder Rights Directive 
implemented in August 2009. Another special resolution is to amend 
the Company’s Articles of Association to fix Directors’ fees at an 
aggregate maximum of £750,000.
Auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report and Accounts confirms that:
 – so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and 
 – the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant  
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is 
aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as 
Auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report 
and Accounts
The Board has prepared a Strategic Report (including the Chairman’s 
Statement and the Chief Executive’s Strategic Review) which provides 
an overview of the development and performance of the Company’s 
business in the year ended 28 March 2015 and its position at the end 
of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the 
business of the Company and the Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4. 1.5 R(2) and DTR 4. 1.8 R, 
the required content of the management report can be found in the 
Strategic report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections 
of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the following items are not 
applicable: (1) interest capitalised; (2) publication of unaudited financial 
information; (5) waiver of emoluments by a Director; (6) waiver of 
future emoluments by a Director; (7) non pre-emptive issues of equity 
for cash; (8) item (7) in relation to major subsidiary undertakings; (9) 
parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary; (1 1) provisions 
of services by a controlling shareholder; (13) shareholder waivers of 
future dividends; and (14) agreements with controlling shareholders.
Applicable items can be located as follows: (4) details of long-term 
incentive schemes – note 23 to the Financial Statements; (10) 
contracts of significance and (12) shareholder waiver of dividends 
– Other Statutory Information, page 91. 
Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 101 
– Reduced Disclosure Framework
Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of Financial 
Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, Halma 
plc is required to change its accounting framework for its Company 
financial statements (published on pages 151 to 157 in this Annual 
Report and Accounts), which is currently UK GAAP , for its financial 
year commencing 29 March 2015. The Board considers that it is in 
the best interests of the group for Halma plc to adopt the FRS 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework, which is intended for use by 
parent and subsidiary companies of groups reporting under IFRS 
on a consolidated basis. No disclosures in the current UK GAAP 
Company financial statements would be omitted on adoption of 
FRS 101. A shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or 
more of the total allotted shares in Halma plc may serve objections 
to the use of the disclosure exemptions on Halma plc, in writing, 
to its registered office (Misbourne Court, Rectory Way, Amersham, 
Buckinghamshire, UK, HP7 0DE) not later than 31 August 2015.
By order of the Board
Carol Chesney
Company Secretary
1 1 June 2015
93 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by  
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company  
for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 – make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 – state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 – properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events  
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 – make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection  
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit  
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
 – the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
 – the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Andrew Williams  Kevin Thompson
Chief Executive  Finance Director
11 June 2015
94 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Opinion on financial statements of Halma plc  
Going concern 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets  
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 
In our opinion: 
 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
28 March 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended; 
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; 
 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practices; and 
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and 
parent company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 
1 to 31. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practices, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement on page 65 that the Group is a going concern. 
We confirm that: 
 we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and 
 we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
At 28 March 2015, the net book value of goodwill and intangible 
assets was £545m (2014: £448m).  
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible 
assets is a significant risk due to the quantum of the balance 
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. There is also 
a risk relating to the key assumptions and assertions used 
by management to support their assessment of the carrying 
value of goodwill and intangible assets due to the number of 
judgments involved in determining recoverable amounts. In 
assessing the carrying value, management has made a number  
of key assumptions, including short-term and long-term growth 
rates, discount rates, the forecast trading performance based on 
management’s view of future business prospects and the use of 
10 individual cash generating units. 
The associated disclosure is included in notes 11 and 12. The 
Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on 
page 69 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and 
judgments on pages 106 and 107. 
We agreed the cash generating unit (CGU) groupings to 
information reviewed by management to make decisions about 
their business. We also challenged the forecast cashflows used in 
the model against historical performance and post period trading 
data. There are 10 CGU groups.  
We compared short-term growth rates against the short-term 
historical achieved rates, which were adjusted for specific outliers. 
We confirmed the agreed rates and challenged management on 
the appropriateness of any outliers. 
We recalculated the long-term growth rates cap at the weighted 
average of market specific GDP growth rates, which we agreed to 
external sources.  
We agreed the Group discount rate was within a range of 
external party calculations. We also checked the sector specific 
premiums against the prior year comparatives and concluded on 
any variances using external input data movements. Furthermore, 
we benchmarked the discount rates against published rates for the 
external peer group.  
We recalculated management’s sensitivity analysis and replaced 
key assumptions with alternative scenario values. This includes: 
replacing the discount rate with the highest discount rate identified 
in our benchmarking of peer group companies, capping the short-
term growth rates at FY15 growth levels and amending forecasts 
to reflect any FY15 adverse variances of actual versus budget.  
We have checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment 
model. We also assessed whether the Annual Report disclosure 
includes specific growth and discount rates for those deemed to 
be significant CGUs. 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc
95 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements   
 
Acquisition accounting 
Defined benefit pension plan assumptions 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive  
Income and Expenditure  
96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and 
not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to 
any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 
 
There were three acquisitions in the period with a total 
consideration of £97m. The acquisitions were Rohrback  
Cosasco Systems Inc. (RCS), Advanced Electronics Limited 
(Advanced), and Plasticspritzerei AG (Plasticspritzerei). 
There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly 
in line with IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’. The risk relates to 
the assumptions and assertions used by management to fair 
value the acquired assets and liabilities. Judgments include 
the forecast future trading (an output of growth rates, useful 
life and customer ratios) as well as future contingent 
consideration payments including the treatment of future 
amounts based on employment conditions. 
In determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired 
management use a valuation model that incorporates their 
assumptions in respect of forecast revenues, useful life, forecast 
margins and discount rates. These acquisition accounting 
judgments are key as the fair value of the acquired intangible 
assets are included in the balance sheet and the residual 
goodwill balance is not amortised.  
Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 24 to the 
accounts. The Audit Committee has included their assessment 
of this risk on page 69 and it is included in the key accounting 
estimates and judgments on pages 106 and 107. 
We obtained the models for the acquisitions in the period and 
reviewed the fair value adjustments and the calculation of acquired 
intangibles. We agreed key opening balance sheet values to 
supporting schedules and evidence where applicable. 
We challenged the key assumptions in the acquired intangibles 
model including growth rates, useful lives and percentage of 
key customers, plus churn rates. We discussed these variables 
with informed individuals at the acquired entity and at head office, 
obtaining appropriate supporting evidence. We also agreed 
some of the key customer order levels to historical supporting 
data to prove validity and confirmed the churn rate calculation 
completeness via agreeing historical orders placed by a selection 
of key customers. 
We benchmarked the output of the acquisition models, including 
the goodwill to intangible asset ratio, to similar prior year 
acquisitions challenging any significant variances and considering 
the business rationale.  
For historical acquisitions we compared the forecast contingent 
consideration positions to post year end trading results, approved 
budgets and historical levels of settlement. 
We agreed the underlying data in the contingent consideration 
calculation to signed sale and purchase agreements and the 
trading performance applied in the calculation to the audited 
entity’s trial balance for the current period. 
We assessed whether management’s treatment of 
contingent consideration payment arrangements for former 
owners, as either additional purchase consideration or post-
acquisition remuneration, is appropriate by reviewing the sale 
and purchase agreements. 
At 28 March 2015 the net retirement benefit liability recognised 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet was £67m (2014: £37m).  
There is a risk relating to judgments made by management 
in valuing the defined benefit pension plans including the 
use of key model input assumptions such as discount rates, 
mortality assumptions and inflation levels. These variables 
can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the 
retirement benefit liability. 
Management utilise the services of third party actuarial advisers 
to determine their key assumptions. 
Details of the defined benefit pension plans are disclosed in note 
28 to the accounts. The Audit Committee has included their 
assessment of this risk on page 69 and it is included in the key 
accounting estimates and judgments on pages 106 and 107. 
We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the assumptions 
applied in determining the pension obligations, particularly given 
recent market volatility, and determined whether the key 
assumptions are reasonable. This included reviewing available yield 
curves and inflation data to recalculate a reasonable range for the 
key assumptions. 
We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of 
changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates 
that could be used in their calculation. We discussed the output of 
sensitivity analysis with management and their third party actuarial 
advisers. We checked the arithmetical accuracy of the pension 
calculation model. Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions 
against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the 
data used.  
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc 
continued
96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Our application of materiality 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
  
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit 
work and in evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £6.6m (2014: £9.8m), which is 5% (2014: 7%) of statutory pre-tax profit, and below 2% 
(2014: below 3%) of equity. The percentage change was to align more closely with comparable companies. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £132,000 (2014: 
£196,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report 
to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope 
primarily on the audit work for 52 out of 88 trading entities (2014: 52 out of 81). The increase in total trading entities was a result of 
the acquisitions in the period, offset by the disposal of Monitor Elevator Products Inc. 47 (2014: 46) of these were subject to a full 
audit, whilst the remaining five (2014: 6) were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations. The full scope 
audit entities represent the principal business units and account for 70% (2014: 71%) of the Group’s revenue, 73% (2014: 73%) of 
the Group’s profit before tax and 78% (2014: 78%) of the Group’s net assets. The specified audit procedures entities account for 
3% (2014: 3%) of the Group’s revenue, 0% (2014: 0%) of the Group’s profit before tax and 0% (2014: 2%) of the Group’s net assets. 
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement 
identified above. Our audit work on the 52 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which 
were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £42,000 to £976,000 (2014: £36,000 to £1,025,000).  
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components 
not subject to audit or specified audit procedures. These procedures also included, at a minimum, obtaining the bank reconciliations 
and statements for all entities above a £132,000 threshold. For a selection of relevant entities, based on a risk threshold criteria, we 
also performed revenue cut-off, subsequent cash receipt and inventory provision testing necessary to conclude on these balances.  
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits that has been designed so that a senior member 
of the Group audit team visits each of the significant components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every 
three years and the most significant of them at least once a year (defined as contributing greater than 10% of Group profit or revenue). 
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk 
assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
■ Full audit scope 78%
■ Speciﬁed audit procedures 0%
■ Review at Group level 22%
Net assets
■ Full audit scope 73%
■ Speciﬁed audit procedures 0%
■ Review at Group level 27%
Proﬁt before tax
■ Full audit scope 70%
■ Speciﬁed audit procedures 3%
■ Review at Group level 27%
Revenue
■ PBT  ■ Group materiality
Materiality
Component materiality range £42k – 976k
Threshold for reporting £132k
£6.6m
97 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Directors’ remuneration 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
Alexander Butterworth ACA (Senior statutory auditor) 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive  
Income and Expenditure  
98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
In our opinion: 
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters. 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
Annual Report is: 
 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
 otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 
1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed. 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Reading, UK 
11 June 2015 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Halma plc 
continued
98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
  
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 
Consolidated Income Statement
 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects of closure to future benefit 
accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only); and the associated taxation thereon. 
  
  52 weeks to 28 March 2015 52 weeks to 29 March 2014 
 Notes 
Before 
adjustments*
£000 
Adjustments*
 (note 1)
£000 
Total
£000 
Before 
adjustments* 
£000 
Adjustments*
(note 1)
£000 
Total 
£000 
Continuing operations   
Revenue 1 726,134 – 726,134 676,506 – 676,506
Operating profit  158,500 (21,437) 137,063 144,660 (1,089) 143,571
Share of results of associates 14 64 – 64 307 – 307
Profit/(loss) on disposal of 
operations 29 – 1,430 1,430 – (483) (483)
Finance income 4 167 – 167 622 – 622
Finance expense 5 (5,113) – (5,113) (5,340) – (5,340)
Profit before taxation 6 153,618 (20,007) 133,611 140,249 (1,572) 138,677
Taxation 9 (35,706) 6,096 (29,610) (32,685) 335 (32,350)
Profit for the year 
attributable to equity 
shareholders 1 117,912 (13,911) 104,001 107,564 (1,237) 106,327 
Earnings per share 2  
From continuing operations   
Basic  31.17p 27.49p28.47p 28.14p
Diluted  27.48p 28.13p
Dividends in respect  
of the year 10       
Paid and proposed (£000)  45,252 42,235
Paid and proposed per share  11.96p 11.17p
Consolidated Income Statement
99 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive  
Income and Expenditure  
100 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
 
The exchange gain of £30,900,000 (2014: loss of £31,379,000) includes gains of £862,000 (2014: losses of £2,200,000) which relate 
to net investment hedges as described on page 110.
 Notes 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
52 weeks to 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Profit for the year  104,001 106,327
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement:  
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension plans 28 (34,795) 2,060
Tax relating to components of Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified 9 6,791 (1,570)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement:  
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 26 71 499
Exchange gains/(losses) on translation of foreign operations and net investment hedge 30,900 (31,379)
Exchange losses transferred to Income Statement on disposal of operation 29 189 –
Tax relating to components of Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified 9 (23) (129)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year  3,133 (30,519)
    
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 107,134 75,808
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expenditure
100 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
A J Williams  K J Thompson  
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
The financial statements of Halma plc, company number 40932, were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 June 2015. 
Director Director 
  
 Notes 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 11 406,190 335,278
Other intangible assets 12 138,691 112,754
Property, plant and equipment 13 86,303 74,417
Interests in associates 14 4,236 5,088
Deferred tax asset 21 28,596 20,677
  664,016 548,214
Current assets  
Inventories 15 79,734 71,034
Trade and other receivables 16 156,464 135,177
Tax receivable  20 172
Cash and bank balances  41,230 34,531
Derivative financial instruments 26 1,069 496
  278,517 241,410
Total assets  942,533 789,624
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 17 102,717 88,291
Borrowings 18 1,705 4,136
Provisions 19 11,746 4,482
Tax liabilities  12,405 11,340
Derivative financial instruments 26 636 167
  129,209 108,416
Net current assets  149,308 132,994
Non-current liabilities  
Borrowings 18 140,419 104,891
Retirement benefit obligations 28 66,790 36,849
Trade and other payables 20 3,756 3,564
Provisions 19 1,549 6,777
Deferred tax liabilities 21 51,862 43,127
  264,376 195,208
Total liabilities  393,585 303,624
Net assets  548,948 486,000
Equity  
Share capital 22 37,965 37,902
Share premium account  23,608 22,778
Treasury shares  (8,450) (7,054)
Capital redemption reserve  185 185
Hedging and translation reserve  45,500 14,363
Other reserves  (4,073) (2,745)
Retained earnings  454,213 420,571
Shareholders’ funds  548,948 486,000
Consolidated Balance Sheet
101 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements   
102 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
 
Share 
capital  
£000 
Share 
premium 
account 
£000 
Treasury 
shares 
£000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£000 
Hedging 
and 
translation 
reserve  
£000 
Other 
reserves  
£000 
Retained 
earnings 
£000 
Total 
£000 
At 29 March 2014 37,902 22,778 (7,054) 185 14,363 (2,745) 420,571 486,000
Profit for the year – – – – – – 104,001 104,001
Other comprehensive income  
and expense:                
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations – – – – 30,900 – –  30,900 
Exchange losses transferred to Income 
Statement on disposal of operation – – – – 189 – –  189 
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension 
plans – – – – –  – (34,795) (34,795)
Effective portion of changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – – – 71 – –  71 
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income – – – – (23) – 6,791 6,768 
Total other comprehensive income  
and expense – – – – 31,137 – (28,004) 3,133 
Share options exercised 63 830 – – – – – 893
Dividends paid – – – – – – (43,399) (43,399)
Share-based payments – – – – – (1,619) – (1,619)
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – 291 –  291 
Excess tax deductions related to share-
based payments on exercised options – – – – – –  1,044 1,044 
Net movement in treasury shares – – (1,396) – – – – (1,396)
At 28 March 2015 37,965 23,608 (8,450) 185 45,500 (4,073) 454,213 548,948
At 30 March 2013 37,888 22,598 (4,534) 185 45,372 (1,484) 353,242 453,267
Profit for the year – – – – – – 106,327 106,327
Other comprehensive income  
and expense:         
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign operations – – – – (31,379) – – (31,379)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension 
plans – – – – – – 2,060 2,060 
Effective portion of changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – – – 499 – – 499 
Tax relating to components of other 
comprehensive income – – – – (129) – (1,570)(1,699)
Total other comprehensive income  
and expense – – – – (31,009) – 490 (30,519)
Share options exercised 14 180 – – – – – 194
Dividends paid – – – – – – (40,485) (40,485)
Share-based payments – – – – – (1,556) – (1,556)
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – 295 – 295 
Excess tax deductions related to share-
based payments on exercised options – – – – – – 997 997 
Net movement in treasury shares – – (2,520) – – – – (2,520)
At 29 March 2014 37,902 22,778 (7,054) 185 14,363 (2,745) 420,571 486,000
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
102 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
  
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity continued
 
Treasury shares are ordinary shares in Halma plc purchased by the Company and held to fulfil the Company’s obligations under  
the performance share plan. At 28 March 2015 the number of treasury shares held was 1,371,785 (2014: 1,278,148) and their  
market value was £9,616,000 (2014: £7,394,000). The net increase in treasury shares of £1,396,000 (2014: increase of £2,520,000) 
comprises the purchase of treasury shares of £6,843,000 (2014: £7,515,000) offset by the transfer to Other reserves of £5,447,000 
(2014: £4,995,000). 
The Hedging and translation reserve is used to record differences arising from the retranslation of the financial statements  
of foreign operations and the portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that are  
deemed to be an effective hedge. Other than a net credit of £202,000 (2014: credit of £123,000), all amounts at year end  
relate to translation movements. 
The Capital redemption reserve was created on repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. The Other reserves 
represent the provision for the value of the equity-settled share option plans and performance share plan.  
  
 
103 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements   
104 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 
 
*  The £2,731,000 loan note issued in the prior year was converted at par into cash on 2 June 2014. New loan notes were issued totalling £657,000 on 14 May 2014, 
3 September 2014 and 26 November 2014 in respect of the acquisition of Advanced Electronics Limited (see note 24). These loan notes, which attract interest at 1%, 
are convertible into cash at par on each anniversary of the acquisition date until 14 May 2019. 
 Notes 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
52 weeks to 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 25 137,231 121,538
    
Cash flows from investing activities    
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (22,164) (15,838)
Purchase of computer software 12 (1,021) (1,529)
Purchase of other intangibles 12 (382) –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  1,411 1,708
Development costs capitalised 12 (7,213) (5,196)
Interest received  134 252
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 24 (87,743) (16,685)
Disposal of operations, net of cash disposed 29 4,248 1,917
Net cash used in investing activities  (112,730) (35,371)
    
Financing activities    
Dividends paid  (43,399) (40,485)
Proceeds from issue of share capital 893 194
Purchase of treasury shares  (6,843) (7,515)
Interest paid  (3,118) (2,716)
Proceeds from borrowings 25 68,962 7,498
Repayment of borrowings 25 (35,341) (57,791)
Net cash used in financing activities  (18,846) (100,815)
    
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 25 5,655 (14,648)
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward  33,126 49,723
Exchange adjustments  744 (1,949)
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward  39,525 33,126
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,655 (14,648)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from (drawdown)/repayment of borrowings (33,621) 50,293
Net debt acquired (468) –
Loan notes issued* (657) (2,731)
Loan notes repaid* 2,731 2,515
Exchange adjustments (38) 365
 (26,398) 35,794
Net debt brought forward (74,496) (110,290)
Net debt carried forward (100,894) (74,496)
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
104 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Basis of accounting 
New Standards and Interpretations not yet applied 
New Standards and Interpretations applied for the first time 
Key accounting policies
Going concern 
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 
Accounting Policies 
 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in 
the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing 
these accounts. 
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended  
28 March 2015 and 29 March 2014 other than those noted below. 
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading 
‘Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting’. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations that are potentially relevant to 
the Group, and which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had 
not yet been adopted by the EU): 
 IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018.  
 IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.  
 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amended) ‘Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture’ – effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.  
 IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amended) ‘Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation’ – effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
 IAS19 (amended) ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2014. 
 Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014, specifically 
amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payments’ and IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. 
 Annual Improvements 2011-2013 – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014, specifically amendments 
to IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’. 
 Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, specifically 
amendments to IAS 34 ‘Interim Financial Reporting’. 
 IFRIC 22 ‘Levies’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014. 
 Amendments to IAS 1 – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
 Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ – applicable for accounting periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2016. 
 Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations’ – applicable for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on  
the financial statements of the Group except for IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, which will introduce a number of changes in the 
presentation of financial instruments, and IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, which may change the timing of 
revenue recognition for some companies within the Group. 
The following Standards with an effective date of 1 January 2014 have been adopted without any significant impact on the amounts 
reported in these financial statements: 
 
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (amended) ‘Investment Entities’ 
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ 
IAS 12 (amended) ‘Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets’ 
IAS 27 (revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ 
IAS 28 (revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ 
IAS 32 (amended) ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ 
IAS 39 (amended) ‘Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting’ 
 
Below we set out our key accounting policies, with a list of all other accounting policies thereafter. 
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a high level of confidence that despite the current economic 
uncertainty the Company has the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its 
business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for the foreseeable future. Thus, the Directors continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. Further detail is contained on page 65. 
 
Accounting Policies
105 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Business combinations and goodwill 
Intangible assets  
(a) Product development costs 
(b) Acquired intangible assets 
Pensions 
Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
 
106 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: 
 the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
 the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus 
 the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less 
 the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.  
Any contingent consideration payable may be accounted for as either: 
a) Consideration transferred, which is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent purchase consideration is 
classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair 
value of the contingent purchase consideration are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement; or 
b) Remuneration, which is expensed in the Income Statement over the associated period of service. An indicator of such treatment 
includes when payments to employees of the acquired company are contingent on a post-acquisition event, but may be 
automatically forfeited on termination of employment.  
For acquisitions between 4 April 2004 (the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS) and 2 April 2010, 
goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net 
identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment. 
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill therefore includes non-identified  
intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific 
knowledge and technical skills. Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss  
on closure or disposal. 
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its 
consolidated accounts. As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 
was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that 
date; and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in 
determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards. 
Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or 
substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the 
decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably. Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible 
asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis 
over its estimated economic life of three years. 
An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the 
acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value  
can be measured reliably. Acquired intangible assets, comprising trademarks and customer relationships, are amortised through 
the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years. 
The Group makes contributions to various pension plans, covering the majority of its employees. 
For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability recorded in the balance sheet is the difference between the fair value of the plan’s 
assets and the present value of the defined obligation at that date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately  
for each plan on an annual basis by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are taken to Other comprehensive income. 
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated Income 
Statement. Interest on pension plans’ liabilities are recognised within finance expense and the expected return on the plans’ assets 
are recognised within finance income in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement when they fall due. 
The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under  
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that  
are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  
Accounting Policies continued
 
Accounting Policies continued
106 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Critical accounting judgments 
Goodwill impairment 
Intangible assets 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Contingent consideration 
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities 
Other accounting policies 
Basis of consolidation 
Investments in associates 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 
Accounting Policies continued
 
The following four areas of key estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgment have been identified as having significant risk  
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year: 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating units (CGUs) to which goodwill 
has been allocated. In turn, the value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs. The 
future cash flows are based on annual budgets, as approved by the Board, to which the management’s expectation of market-share 
and long-term growth rates are applied. The present value is then calculated based on management’s judgment of future discount 
rates. The Board reviews these key assumptions (market-share, long-term growth rates, and discount rates) and the sensitivity 
analysis around these assumptions. Further details are provided in note 11.  
IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’ requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in 
intangible assets. IFRS 3 (revised) also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition. The assumptions involved  
in valuing these intangible assets require the use of estimates and judgments which may differ from the actual outcome.  
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ requires that development costs, arising from the application of research findings or other technical 
knowledge to a plan or design of a new or substantially improved product, are capitalised, subject to certain criteria being met. 
Determining the technical feasibility and estimating the future cash flows generated by the products in development requires 
judgments which may differ from the actual outcome. 
The estimates and judgments made in relation to both acquired intangible assets and capitalised development costs, cover future 
growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used. 
Determining the value of contingent consideration recognised as part of the acquisition of subsidiaries requires assumptions 
to determine the expected performance of the acquired business and the amount of contingent consideration that will therefore 
become payable. Initial estimates of expected performance are made by the Directors responsible for completing the acquisition 
and form a key component of the financial due diligence that takes place prior to completion. Subsequent measurement of contingent 
consideration is based on the Directors’ appraisal of the acquired business’ performance in the post-acquisition period with any 
required adjustments to the amount payable recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as required under IFRS 3. Further 
details are provided in note 24. 
Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgment in respect of the assumptions used to calculate 
present values. These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases. Management makes these judgments in 
consultation with an independent actuary. Details of the judgments made in calculating these transactions are disclosed in note 28. 
The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma plc and all of its subsidiary companies made up to 28 March 2015, adjusted to 
eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses. The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued are 
included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation. 
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Significant influence is the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but without control or joint control over those policies. 
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting. Investments in associates are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition  
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses  
of an associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part  
of the Group’s net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the  
date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed 
for impairment as part of that investment. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in profit or loss in the year  
of acquisition.  
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interest in the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate 
provision is made for impairment.  
107 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Other intangible assets 
(a) Computer software 
(b) Other intangibles 
Impairment of non-current assets 
Segmental reporting 
Inventories 
Revenue 
Adjusting items 
 
 
108 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and 
is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three 
and five years. 
Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic 
lives of between three and five years. 
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an 
annual impairment test. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement to the extent that an asset’s carrying value exceeds its 
recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. An asset’s value in use 
represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to  
which it relates. The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time  
value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned. 
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill  
are not reversed. 
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (the Chief 
Executive) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete 
financial information is available. 
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered  
by the Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments. Segment result represents operating profits and includes an 
allocation of Head Office expenses. Segment result excludes tax and financing items. Segment assets comprise goodwill, other 
intangible assets, property, plant and equipment (excluding land and buildings), inventories, trade and other receivables. Segment 
liabilities comprise trade and other payables, provisions and other payables. Unallocated items represent land and buildings,  
corporate and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit plan liabilities, contingent purchase consideration, all components 
of net cash/borrowings and derivative financial instruments. 
Inventories and work in progress are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated either on a ‘first in, 
first out’ or an average cost basis and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads 
considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the year end. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution. 
Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales 
related taxes. Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in 
accordance with the contracted terms of sale.  
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised while the contracts are in progress. Revenue is recognised proportionally to the stage 
of completion of the contract, based on the fair value of goods and services provided to date, taking into account the sign-off of 
milestone delivery by customers. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss  
is recognised as an expense immediately. 
When items of income or expense are material and they are relevant to an understanding of the entity’s financial performance, 
they are disclosed separately within the financial statements. Such adjusting items include material costs or reversals arising from 
acquisitions or disposals of businesses, including acquisition costs, material creation or reversals of provisions related to changes 
in estimates for contingent consideration on acquisition, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and other one-off items that 
may arise. 
 
Accounting Policies continued
108 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Taxation 
Foreign currencies 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 
Taxation comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders’ funds, in which case it too is recognised in Shareholders’ funds. Current tax is the 
expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or subsequently enacted at the balance sheet date, 
along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart from  
the following differences which are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes; the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they  
will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of 
realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws, which are expected to apply  
in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that recovery  
is probable. 
The Group presents its accounts in Sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of 
the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates 
prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in 
the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial 
year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year. Goodwill arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the 
financial year. Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Hedging and translation reserve within 
Shareholders’ funds. 
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after 
taking into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Hedging and translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary. 
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Hedging and translation to be £nil at 4 April 2004. Accordingly, the  
profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before  
4 April 2004. 
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using forward exchange 
contracts. Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 26. 
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit and loss (held for trading) unless they are in a designated 
hedge relationship. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, unless the 
derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Consolidated Income 
Statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable 
forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges), or hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations.  
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as  
a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument 
is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current 
assets or current liabilities. 
 
109 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Cash flow hedge accounting 
Net investment hedge accounting 
Employee share plans 
(a) Share incentive plan 
(b) Share option plans 
(c) Performance share plan 
  
 
110 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Accounting Policies continued
 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.  
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged 
item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument has been or is expected  
to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.  
Note 26 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and the movements in the hedging 
reserve in equity. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in 
Other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion as a result of being over hedged is recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.  
Amounts previously recognised in Other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated 
Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. However, when the 
forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses 
previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial 
asset or non-financial liability.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in Other comprehensive income  
at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised, in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.  
The Group uses foreign currency denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s net investment 
in overseas companies. Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by 
changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and 
accumulated in the Hedging and translation reserve. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates 
is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s share incentive plan, the share option plans and the 
performance share plan. 
Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria. The 
shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the market by the plan’s trustees at the time of the award, and are then held in trust 
for a minimum of three years. The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the three-year vesting 
periods of the awards. 
All grants of options under the 1999 company share option plan are equity settled, and so, as permitted by IFRS 1, the provisions  
of IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’ have been applied only to options awarded on or after 7 November 2002 which had not vested  
at 3 April 2005. 
The fair value of awards under this plan has been measured at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and will not be 
subsequently remeasured. The fair value is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the expected 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based 
vesting conditions. The corresponding credit is to Shareholders’ funds. 
No further awards will be made under the share option plan. 
On 3 August 2005 the share option plan was replaced by the performance share plan. 
Awards under this plan are partly equity-settled and partly cash-settled, and are subject to both market-based and non-market-based 
vesting criteria.  
The fair value of the equity-settled portion at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the 
likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met. The fair value is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual 
forfeitures arising from the non-market-based performance conditions only. The corresponding credit is to Shareholders’ funds. 
For the cash-settled portion, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at 
each balance sheet date. 
Accounting Policies continued
110 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Provisions 
Deferred government grant income 
Operating profit 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Dividends 
Property, plant and equipment 
Leases 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.  
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of the cash flows.  
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a  
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable  
can be measured reliably. 
Government grant income that is linked to capital expenditure is deferred to the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the 
Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset. In addition, the Group claims research and development expenditure 
credits arising on qualifying expenditure in its UK-based subsidiaries and shows these ‘above the line’ in Operating profit. Where the 
credits arise on expenditure that is capitalised as part of Internally generated capitalised development costs, the income is deferred to 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset in line with the 
policy stated above. 
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the share of results of associates, profit or loss on disposal of 
operations, finance income and finance costs. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand.  
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by 
the Company’s shareholders. 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception  
of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each asset’s estimated economic life. The principal 
annual rates used for this purpose are: 
Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases, of which the 
Group has none. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. 
 
Freehold property 2%
Leasehold properties: 
Long leases (more than 50 years unexpired) 2%
Short leases (less than 50 years unexpired) Period of lease
Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3%
111 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  1 Segmental analysis 
Sector analysis 
Segment revenue and results 
 
 
 
112 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts 
 
The Group has four main reportable segments (Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety, Medical, and Environmental & Analysis),  
which are defined by markets rather than product type. Each segment includes businesses with similar operating and marketing 
characteristics. These segments are consistent with the internal reporting as reviewed by the Chief Executive.  
Inter-segmental sales are charged at prevailing market prices and have not been disclosed separately by segment as they are not 
considered material. The Group does not analyse revenue by product group and has no material revenue derived from the rendering 
of services. 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects of closure to future benefit 
accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only); and the associated taxation thereon. 
** The defined benefit plan referred to here is the Halma Group Pension Plan only, which is not practical to allocate by sector (see adjustments table on page 113 for 
more details). 
 
Revenue (all continuing 
operations)
 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
52 weeks to 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Process Safety 158,372 126,704
Infrastructure Safety 234,063 220,254
Medical 169,333 163,181
Environmental & Analysis 164,412 166,547
Inter-segmental sales (46) (180)
Revenue for the year 726,134 676,506
 
Profit (all continuing 
 operations)
 
52 weeks to 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
52 weeks to 
29 March 
2014 
£000 
Segment profit before allocation of adjustments*  
Process Safety 44,772 34,878
Infrastructure Safety 49,992 44,445
Medical 45,385 41,826
Environmental & Analysis 27,403 31,740
 167,552 152,889
Segment profit after allocation of adjustments*  
Process Safety 40,280 34,125
Infrastructure Safety 49,585 45,010
Medical 31,981 41,554
Environmental & Analysis 25,699 27,574
Segment profit 147,545 148,263
Central administration costs excluding the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined 
benefit pension plan net of associated costs** (8,988) (7,922)
Effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension plan net of associated costs** – 3,054
Net finance expense (4,946) (4,718)
Group profit before taxation 133,611 138,677
Taxation (29,610) (32,350)
Profit for the year 104,001 106,327
Notes to the Accounts
112 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies. Acquisition transaction costs, 
release of fair value adjustments to inventory and adjustments to contingent consideration (collectively ‘acquisition items’) are 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Segment profit, before these acquisition items and the other adjustments, is 
disclosed separately above as this is the measure reported to the Chief Executive for the purpose of allocation of resources and 
assessment of segment performance. 
These adjustments are analysed as follows: 
The transaction costs arose mainly on the acquisitions (see note 24) of Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. (RCS), Advanced Electronics 
Limited (Advanced) and Plasticspritzerei AG, which were acquired on 30 May 2014, 14 May 2014 and 2 May 2014 respectively. 
The charge of £1,581,000 to contingent consideration related mainly to a revision in the estimate of the remaining MST payable from 
$6,504,000 to $9,061,000. The £2,303,000 credit to contingent consideration related to a revision in the estimate of the remaining 
ASL payable from £2,500,000 to £197,000. The release of fair value adjustments to inventory arises from revaluing the inventory of 
RCS and Advanced at acquisition.  
* The effects of closure to future benefit accrual of defined benefit pension plans, which were gains of £894,000 and £3,054,000, arose on the closure of the  
Apollo Pension and Life Assurance Plan and Halma Group Pension Plan respectively. It is not practical to apportion the latter gain by Segment. 
The £12,456,000 credit to contingent consideration related mainly to a revision in the estimate of the MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. 
payable from US$25,000,000 to US$6,504,000. 
 
  
       2015 
  Acquisition items    
 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£000 
Transaction 
costs 
£000 
Adjustments 
to contingent 
consideration 
£000 
Release of 
fair value 
adjustments 
to inventory 
£000 
Total 
amortisation 
charge and 
acquisition 
items 
£000 
 
 Disposal of 
operations 
 (note 29) 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Process Safety (3,026) (928) – (538) (4,492) – (4,492)
Infrastructure Safety (765) (486) (102) (130) (1,483) 1,076 (407)
Medical (12,156) (21) (1,581) – (13,758) 354 (13,404)
Environmental & Analysis (4,007) – 2,303 – (1,704) – (1,704)
Total Segment & Group (19,954) (1,435) 620 (668) (21,437) 1,430 (20,007)
       2014 
  Acquisition items     
 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangible 
assets  
£000 
Transaction 
costs 
£000 
Adjustments 
to contingent 
consideration 
£000 
Total 
amortisation 
charge and 
acquisition 
items 
£000 
Disposal of 
operations 
 (note 29) 
£000 
Effects of 
closure to 
future benefit 
 accrual of 
 defined 
 benefit 
 pension 
 plans*
£000 
Total 
£000 
Process Safety (598) – (17) (615) (138) – (753)
Infrastructure Safety (144) (140) – (284) (45) 894 565 
Medical (12,530) 102 12,456 28 (300) – (272)
Environmental & Analysis (4,243) (53) 130 (4,166) – – (4,166)
Total Segment (17,515) (91) 12,569 (5,037) (483) 894 (4,626)
Central administration costs – – – – – 3,054 3,054
Total Group (17,515) (91) 12,569 (5,037) (483) 3,948 (1,572)
113 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  1 Segmental analysis continued 
Segment assets and liabilities 
Other segment information 
 
114 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
 
Segment assets and liabilities, excluding the allocation of goodwill, interests in associates and acquired intangible assets, have been 
disclosed separately above as this is the measure reported to the Chief Executive for the purpose of monitoring segment performance 
and allocating resources between segments. Other unallocated assets include land and buildings and tax assets, and unallocated 
liabilities include contingent purchase consideration, retirement benefit provisions and tax liabilities. 
Non-current asset additions comprise acquired and purchased goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.  
An impairment loss of £236,000 was recognised during the year within Environmental & Analysis (2014: £nil). 
  Assets  Liabilities 
Before goodwill, interests in associates and acquired intangible assets are 
allocated to specific segment assets/liabilities 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Process Safety 65,141 50,518 21,842 18,463
Infrastructure Safety 97,424 88,688 33,112 28,896
Medical 62,981 54,428 23,947 18,457
Environmental & Analysis 72,599 68,866 26,288 26,413
Total segment assets/liabilities excluding goodwill, interests in 
associates and acquired intangible assets 298,145 262,500 105,189 92,229 
Goodwill 406,190 335,278 – –
Interests in associates 4,236 5,088 – –
Acquired intangible assets 119,541 96,955 – –
Total segment assets/liabilities including goodwill, interests in 
associates and acquired intangible assets 828,112 699,821 105,189 92,229 
  Assets  Liabilities 
After goodwill, interests in associates and acquired intangible assets are 
allocated to specific segment assets/liabilities 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Process Safety 154,677 68,428 21,842 18,463
Infrastructure Safety 191,351 170,540 33,112 28,896
Medical 286,990 275,109 23,947 18,457
Environmental & Analysis 194,744 185,744 26,288 26,413
Total segment assets/liabilities including goodwill 
and acquired intangible assets 827,762 699,821 105,189 92,229 
Cash and bank balances/borrowings 41,230 34,531 142,124 109,027
Derivative financial instruments 1,069 496 636 167
Other unallocated assets/liabilities 72,472 54,776 145,636 102,201
Total Group 942,533 789,624 393,585 303,624
 
Additions to  
non-current assets  
Depreciation and 
amortisation 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Process Safety 71,846 4,403 6,743 3,872
Infrastructure Safety 28,995 10,311 8,490 6,458
Medical 13,403 4,575 15,509 15,742
Environmental & Analysis 5,499 6,209 9,708 9,733
Total segment additions/depreciation and amortisation 119,743 25,498 40,450 35,805
Unallocated 513 354 461 505
Total Group 120,256 25,852 40,911 36,310
Notes to the Accounts continued
114 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Geographic information 
Information about major customers 
2 Earnings per ordinary share 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 
The Group’s revenue from external customers (by location of customer) and its non-current assets by geographic location are 
detailed below: 
Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, investments in associates and property, plant and equipment.  
The Group had no revenue from a single customer, which accounts for more than 2% of the Group’s revenue.  
Basic earnings per ordinary share are calculated using the weighted average of 378,328,541 shares in issue during the year (net  
of shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares) (2014: 377,805,248). Diluted earnings per ordinary share are 
calculated using the weighted average of 378,475,804 shares (2014: 378,035,662), which includes dilutive potential ordinary shares 
of 147,263 (2014: 230,414). Dilutive potential ordinary shares are calculated from those exercisable share options where the exercise 
price is less than the average price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. 
Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from continuing operations excluding the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; 
acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension 
plans net of associated costs (prior year only); and the associated taxation thereon. The Directors consider that adjusted earnings 
represent a more consistent measure of underlying performance. A reconciliation of earnings and the effect on basic earnings per 
share figures is as follows: 
  
 Revenue by destination Non-current assets 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
United States of America 223,374 214,493 72,766 63,996
Mainland Europe 167,363 163,707 29,836 28,134
United Kingdom 138,312 127,877 526,953 429,923
Asia Pacific 116,842 111,572 5,828 5,429
Africa, Near and Middle East 44,037 33,037 – –
Other countries 36,206 25,820 37 55
 726,134 676,506 635,420 527,537
   Per ordinary share 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
pence 
2014 
pence 
Earnings from continuing operations 104,001 106,327 27.49 28.14
Cessation of DB pension accrual – (3,040) – (0.80)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (after tax) 14,121 11,820 3.73 3.14
Acquisition transaction costs (after tax) 1,423 91 0.38 0.02
Release of fair value adjustments to inventory (after tax) 474 – 0.13 –
Adjustments to contingent consideration (after tax) (1,162) (8,104) (0.31) (2.15)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of operations (after tax) (945) 470 (0.25) 0.12
Adjusted earnings 117,912 107,564 31.17 28.47
115 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  3 Non-GAAP measures 
Return on Total Invested Capital 
Return on Capital Employed 
 
116 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The Board uses certain non-GAAP measures to help it effectively monitor the performance of the Group. These measures include 
Return on Total Invested Capital, Return on Capital Employed, Organic growth at constant currency, Adjusted operating profit and 
Adjusted operating cash flow. 
* The ROTIC and ROCE measures are now expressed as a percentage of the average of the current year’s and prior year’s Total Invested Capital and Capital Employed 
respectively. Using an average as the denominator is considered to be more representative. The 2013 Total Invested Capital and Capital Employed balances were 
£625,287,000 and £188,701,000 respectively. 
** Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; and the effects of closure to future benefit 
accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only). 
*** Includes goodwill amortised prior to 3 April 2004 and goodwill taken to reserves. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
(Restated)*
2014 
£000 
Post-tax profit before adjustments** 117,912 107,564
Total shareholders’ funds 548,948 486,000
Add back retirement benefit obligations 66,790 36,849
Less associated deferred tax assets (13,085) (7,372)
Cumulative amortisation of acquired intangible assets 83,958 61,324
Historical adjustments to goodwill*** 89,549 89,549
Total Invested Capital 776,160 666,350
Average Total Invested Capital 721,255 645,819
Return on Total Invested Capital (ROTIC) 16.3% 16.7%
 
2015 
£000 
(Restated)*
2014 
£000 
Operating profit before adjustments**, but after share of results of associates 158,564 144,967
Computer software costs within intangible assets 2,835 2,810
Capitalised development costs within intangible assets 15,865 12,981
Other intangibles within intangible assets 450 8
Property, plant and equipment 86,303 74,417
Inventories 79,734 71,034
Trade and other receivables 156,464 135,177
Trade and other payables (102,717) (88,291)
Current provisions (11,746) (4,482)
Net tax liabilities (12,385) (11,168)
Non-current trade and other payables (3,756) (3,564)
Non-current provisions (1,549) (6,777)
Add back contingent purchase consideration 9,650 7,562
Capital Employed 219,148 189,707
Average Capital Employed 204,428 189,204
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 77.6% 76.6%
Notes to the Accounts continued
116 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Organic growth at constant currency 
Adjusted operating profit 
Adjusted operating cash flow 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 
Organic growth at constant currency measures the change in revenue and profit from continuing Group operations. The effect 
of acquisitions made during the financial year has been equalised by adjusting the current year results for pro-rated contributions 
based on their revenues and profits before taxation at the dates of acquisition. The results of disposals made in the financial year 
have been adjusted from the prior year reported revenue and profit before taxation. The effects of currency changes are removed 
through restating the current year revenue and profit before taxation at the prior year exchange rates. Organic growth at constant 
currency has been calculated as follows: 
* Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; and the effects of closure to future benefit 
accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only). 
 
  
 Revenue Adjusted profit* before taxation 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 % growth 
2015  
£000 
2014 
£000 % growth 
Continuing operations 726,134 676,506 153,618 140,249
Acquired and disposed revenue/profit (35,489) (6,441) (7,394) (983)
Organic growth  690,645 670,065 3.1% 146,224 139,266 5.0%
Constant currency adjustment 12,114 – 3,071 –
Organic growth at constant currency 702,759 670,065 4.9% 149,295 139,266 7.2%
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Operating profit 137,063 143,571
Add back: 
Acquisition items 1,483 (12,478)
Effects of closure to future benefit accrual of defined benefit pension plans – (3,948)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19,954 17,515
Adjusted operating profit 158,500 144,660
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Net cash from operating activities (note 25) 137,231 121,538
Add back: 
Taxes paid 30,824 28,351
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,411 1,708
Less: 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (22,164) (15,838)
Purchase of computer software and other intangibles (1,403) (1,529)
Development costs capitalised (7,213) (5,196)
Adjusted operating cash flow 138,686 129,034
Cash conversion % (adjusted operating cash flow/adjusted operating profit) 87% 89%
117 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  4 Finance income 
5 Finance expense 
6 Profit before taxation  
 
118 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
Profit before taxation comprises: 
Included within administrative expenses are the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items, and the effects of closure 
to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension plans (prior year only). 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Interest receivable 134 252
Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 33 370
 167 622
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3,090 2,691
Amortisation of finance costs 530 599
Net interest charge on pension plan liabilities 1,419 1,875
Other interest payable 28 25
 5,067 5,190
Unwinding of discount on provisions 46 150
 5,113 5,340
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Revenue 726,134 676,506
Direct materials/direct labour (257,231) (240,584)
Production overhead (85,641) (81,403)
Selling costs (98,788) (87,385)
Distribution costs (15,868) (15,448)
Administrative expenses (131,543) (108,115)
Operating profit 137,063 143,571
Share of results of associates 64 307
Profit/(loss) on disposal of operations 1,430 (483)
Net finance expense (4,946) (4,718)
Profit before taxation 133,611 138,677
Notes to the Accounts continued
118 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
7 Employee information 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 
 
* A further £7,213,000 (2014: £5,196,000) of development costs has been capitalised in the year. See note 12. 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) by entity location was: 
 
  
  
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Profit before taxation is stated after 
charging/(crediting):    
Depreciation  14,005 13,625
Amortisation  26,670 22,685
Impairment of internally generated capitalised 
development costs  236 – 
Research and development*  27,394 26,929
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss  (1,765) 1,385
(Profit)/loss on disposal of operations  (1,430) 483
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and 
computer software  (590) (26)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense  348,170 326,917
Staff costs (note 7)  199,763 180,905
Auditor’s remuneration Audit services to the Company 162 159
 Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 641 600
 Total audit fees 803 759
  
 Interim agreed upon procedures 18 20
 Tax compliance services – 1
 Tax advisory services 133 11
 Other services 1 18
 Total non-audit fees 152 50
  
 Audit of Group pension plan 20 15
 Total fees 975 824
  
Operating lease rents: Property 8,888 8,027
 Other 921 942
 
2015 
Number 
2014 
Number 
United States of America 1,609 1,538
Mainland Europe 797 794
United Kingdom 1,895 1,723
Asia Pacific 1,011 936
Other countries 16 8
 5,328 4,999
119 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  7 Employee information continued 
8 Directors’ remuneration 
 
120 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) by employee location was: 
Group employee costs comprise: 
The remuneration of the Directors is set out on pages 81 to 90 within the Remuneration Report described as being audited and forms 
part of these financial statements. 
Directors’ remuneration comprises: 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Wages, salaries and fees 3,063 2,671
Pension costs  12 56
Share-based payment charge 1,233 1,227
 4,308 3,954
 
  
 
2015 
Number 
2014 
Number 
United States of America 1,491 1,512
Mainland Europe 770 782
United Kingdom 1,947 1,660
Asia Pacific 1,064 994
Other countries 56 51
 5,328 4,999
 
2015 
£000 
2014
£000 
Wages and salaries 164,581 148,286
Social security costs 23,429 21,428
Pension costs (note 28) 7,117 6,695
Share-based payment charge (note 23) 4,636 4,496
 199,763 180,905
Notes to the Accounts continued
120 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
9 Taxation 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 
 
*  Adjustments include the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items; profit or loss on disposal of operations; the effects of closure to future benefit 
accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (prior year only). 
 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Current tax 
UK corporation tax at 21% (2014: 23%) 9,397 9,465
Overseas taxation 24,064 20,872
Adjustments in respect of prior years 62 (492)
Total current tax charge 33,523 29,845
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of timing differences (4,075) 2,626
Adjustments in respect of prior years 162 (121)
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (3,913) 2,505
Total tax charge recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 29,610 32,350
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate: 
Profit before tax  133,611 138,677
 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21% (2014: 23%) 28,058 31,896
Overseas tax rate differences 8,047 5,665
Permanent differences (6,719) (4,598)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 224 (613)
 29,610 32,350
Effective tax rate after adjustments* 22.2% 23.3%
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Profit before tax and adjustments* 153,618 140,249
Total tax charge on profit before adjustments* 35,706 32,685
Effective tax rate 23.2% 23.3%
121 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  9 Taxation continued 
10 Dividends 
 
122 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
In addition to the amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised 
directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure: 
In addition to the amounts charged to the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expenditure, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in equity: 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2015 and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Deferred tax (note 21)  
Retirement benefit obligations (6,791) 1,570
Short-term timing differences 23 129
 (6,768) 1,699
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Current tax  
Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options 1,044 997
Deferred tax (note 21)  
Change in estimated excess tax deductions related to share-based payments 291 295
 1,335 1,292
 Per ordinary share   
 
2015 
pence 
2014  
pence 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Amounts recognised as distributions to shareholders in the year  
Final dividend for the year to 29 March 2014 (30 March 2013) 6.82 6.37 25,799 24,049
Interim dividend for the year to 28 March 2015 (29 March 2014) 4.65 4.35 17,600 16,436
 11.47 10.72 43,399 40,485
Dividends declared in respect of the year   
Interim dividend for the year to 28 March 2015 (29 March 2014) 4.65 4.35 17,600 16,436
Proposed final dividend for the year to 28 March 2015 (29 March 2014) 7.31 6.82 27,652 25,799
 11.96 11.17 45,252 42,235
Notes to the Accounts continued
122 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
11 Goodwill  
Key assumptions used in ‘value in use’ calculations 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 
The Group identifies cash generating units (CGUs) at the operating company level as this represents the lowest level at which cash 
flows are largely independent of other cash flows. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the 
groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
Before recognition of any impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 
Goodwill values have been tested for impairment by comparing them against the value in use in perpetuity of the relevant CGUs. The 
value in use calculations were based on projected cash flows, derived from the latest budget approved by the Board, discounted at 
CGU specific, risk adjusted, discount rates to calculate their net present value.  
The calculation of ‘value in use’ is most sensitive to the following assumptions: 
 CGU specific operating assumptions that are reflected in the budget period for the financial year to March 2016; 
 Discount rates; 
 Growth rates used to extrapolate risk adjusted cash flows beyond the budget period. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Cost 
At beginning of year 335,278 351,785
Additions (note 24) 53,026 1,649
Exchange adjustments 17,886 (18,156)
At end of year 406,190 335,278
Provision for impairment 
At beginning and end of year – –
Carrying amounts 406,190 335,278
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Process Safety 
Gas Detection – –
Bursting Discs 7,826 6,977
Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring 51,826 7,357
 59,652 14,334
Infrastructure Safety 
Fire 22,711 12,172
Doors, Security and Elevators 63,912 68,465
 86,623 80,637
Medical 
Health Optics 125,581 117,571
Fluid Technology 34,746 31,095
 160,327 148,666
Environmental & Analysis 
Water 28,089 27,252
Photonics 58,931 53,184
Environmental Monitoring 12,568 11,205
 99,588 91,641
Total Group 406,190 335,278
123 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  11 Goodwill continued 
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions  
 
124 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
CGU specific operating assumptions are applicable to the budgeted cash flows for the year to March 2016 and relate to revenue 
forecasts, expected project outcomes and forecast operating margins in each of the operating companies. The relative value ascribed 
to each assumption will vary between CGUs as the budgets are built up from the underlying operating companies within each CGU.  
A short-term growth rate is applied to the March 2016 budget to derive the cash flows arising in the year to March 2017 and a long-
term rate is applied to these values for the year to March 2018 and onwards, as described below. 
Discount rates are based on estimations of the assumptions that market participants operating in similar sectors to Halma would 
make, using the Group’s economic profile as a starting point and adjusting appropriately. The Directors do not currently expect any 
significant change in the present base discount rate of 9.72% (2014: 10.65%). The base discount rate, which is pre-tax and is based 
on short-term variables, may differ from the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) used in long-term return measures such as 
ROTIC. Discount rates are adjusted for economic risks that are not already captured in the specific operating assumptions for each 
CGU. This results in the impairment testing using discount rates ranging from 10.10% to 12.91% (2014: 10.52% to 13.70%) across 
all CGUs. 
CGUs to which 10% or more of the total goodwill balance is allocated are deemed to be significant. The assumptions used to 
determine value in use for these CGUs are: 
* Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring was not a significant CGU in the prior year. 
Short-term growth rates are based on sectoral organic growth rates achieved in the current year, but are capped at the Group’s 
overall current year organic growth rate to ensure that future uncertainties are adequately reflected. Long-term growth rates are 
capped at the weighted average GDP growth rates of the markets that the Group sells into. 
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any 
unit to exceed its recoverable amount. 
  
Significant CGU 
Risk adjusted discount rate Short-term growth rates Long-term growth rates 
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Safety Interlocks and Corrosion Monitoring* 11.49% 11.24% 7.20% – 2.79% –
Doors, Security and Elevators 10.58% 13.70% 7.20% 5.09% 2.15% 2.14%
Health Optics 12.91% 12.88% 7.20% 1.49% 2.35% 2.35%
Photonics 11.68% 11.61% (3.26%) 2.07% 2.17% 2.16%
Notes to the Accounts continued
124 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
12 Other intangible assets 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 
1
 Customer and supplier relationship assets are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between three and ten years. Within this balance individually 
material balances relate to Medicel: £7,205,000 (2014: £8,193,000), MST: £6,743,000 (2014: £6,796,000) and RCS: £15,090,000 (2014: £nil). The remaining 
amortisation periods for these assets are six years, seven years and nine years respectively. 
2
 Technical know-how assets are amortised over their useful economic lives, estimated to be between three and ten years. Within this balance the only individually material 
item relates to RCS which has a carrying value of £10,466,000 (2014: £nil) and nine years remaining to amortise. 
3
 Trademarks, brands and patents (which include protected intellectual property) are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between eight and  
ten years. There are no individually material items within this balance. 
4
 Internally generated capitalised development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be three years. There are no individually material items 
within this balance, which comprises capitalised costs arising from the development phase of the R&D projects undertaken by the Group. 
5
 Other intangibles comprise licence and product registration costs amortised over their useful economic lives estimated to be between three and five years. 
6
 The net transfer from property, plant and equipment and computer software to internally generated capitalised development costs relates to project specific assets. 
 Acquired intangible assets      
 
Customer 
and supplier  
relationships
1 
£000 
Technical 
know- 
how
2
£000 
Trademarks, 
brands and 
 patents
3
£000 
Total 
£000 
Internally 
generated 
capitalised 
development 
 costs
4 
£000 
Computer 
software
 
£000 
Other 
intangibles
5
£000 
Total 
£000 
Cost            
At 30 March 2013 117,289  12,915 35,897 166,101 32,816  10,448  448 209,813 
Transfer between category
6
 – – – – – 586 (51) 535 
Assets of businesses acquired  806 404 234 1,444 – – – 1,444
Additions at cost – – – – 5,196 1,529 – 6,725 
Exchange adjustments (6,436) (963) (1,867) (9,266) (784) (441) (34)(10,525)
At 29 March 2014 111,659 12,356 34,264 158,279 37,228 12,122 363 207,992 
Transfer between category
6
 – – – – 225 (21) – 204 
Assets of businesses acquired  
(note 24) 20,003  10,194 2,137 32,334 1,196  435  147 34,112 
Assets of businesses sold  – – – – – (263)  – (263) 
Additions at cost – – – – 7,213 1,021 382 8,616 
Disposals and retirements – – – – (465) (385) – (850)
Exchange adjustments 9,250 2,502 1,134 12,886 90 241 74 13,291 
At 28 March 2015 140,912 25,052 37,535 203,499 45,487 13,150 966 263,102 
Accumulated amortisation            
At 30 March 2013 30,082  4,977 11,091 46,150 20,839  8,065  302 75,356 
Transfer between category  – – – – – 428 – 428 
Charge for the year 12,009 1,455 4,051 17,515 3,922 1,168 80 22,685 
Exchange adjustments (1,503) (373) (465) (2,341) (514) (349) (27) (3,231)
At 29 March 2014 40,588 6,059 14,677 61,324 24,247 9,312 355 95,238 
Charge for the year 13,425 2,406 4,123 19,954 5,390 1,211 115 26,670 
Impairment loss recognised – – – – 236 – – 236 
Assets of business sold – – – – – (143) – (143)
Disposals and retirements – – – – (465) (384) – (849)
Exchange adjustments 2,283 669 (272) 2,680 214 319 46 3,259 
At 28 March 2015 56,296 9,134 18,528 83,958 29,622 10,315 516 124,411 
Carrying amounts            
At 28 March 2015 84,616 15,918 19,007 119,541 15,865 2,835 450 138,691 
At 29 March 2014 71,071 6,297 19,587 96,955 12,981 2,810 8 112,754 
125 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  13 Property, plant and equipment 
 
126 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
1
 Included within freehold land and buildings is £3,497,000 (2014: £nil) of assets under construction. 
 
  
 Land and buildings Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£000 
 
 
Freehold
1
£000 
Long leases 
£000 
Short leases  
£000 
Total
£000 
Cost      
At 30 March 2013 36,037 2,894 7,331 122,186 168,448
Transfer between category (11) 8 105 (637) (535)
Assets of businesses acquired – – – 196 196 
Additions at cost 73 615 536 14,614 15,838 
Disposals and retirements (856) (46) (383) (5,880) (7,165)
Exchange adjustments (869) (151) (281) (5,140) (6,441)
At 29 March 2014 34,374 3,320 7,308 125,339 170,341
Transfer between category – 1,158 (11) (1,351) (204)
Assets of businesses acquired (note 24) 366 29 48 1,895 2,338 
Assets of business sold – – (59) (660) (719)
Additions at cost 4,868 495 2,059 14,742 22,164 
Disposals and retirements (171) (159) (1,617) (9,006) (10,953)
Exchange adjustments 319 314 245 3,986 4,864 
At 28 March 2015 39,756 5,157 7,973 134,945 187,831 
Accumulated depreciation      
At 30 March 2013 
9,584 1,250 4,982 75,907 91,723
Transfer between category (8) – 81 (501) (428)
Charge for the year 690 318 657 11,960 13,625 
Disposals and retirements (432) (46) (383) (4,611) (5,472)
Exchange adjustments (329) (71) (209) (2,915) (3,524)
At 29 March 2014 
9,505 1,451 5,128 79,840 95,924
Charge for the year 669 352 818 12,166 14,005 
Assets of business sold – – (28) (283) (311)
Disposals and retirements (124) (158) (1,606) (8,296) (10,184)
Exchange adjustments 84 104 144 1,762 2,094 
At 28 March 2015 10,134 1,749 4,456 85,189 101,528 
Carrying amounts      
At 28 March 2015 29,622 3,408 3,517 49,756 86,303 
At 29 March 2014 24,869 1,869 2,180 45,499 74,417 
Notes to the Accounts continued
126 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
14 Associates 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 
On 2 May 2014, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in the equity of PSRM Immobilien AG (PSRM), as part of the transaction in 
which the Group acquired Plasticspritzerei AG. Until its disposal, PSRM was treated as an associate, and not a subsidiary, because 
the party holding the remaining 50% was considered to exert more control. 
On the 14 July 2014, the Group also disposed of 12,517 shares in Optomed Oy (Optomed), representing 10.72% of its shareholding 
in the associate. The Group’s residual interest in Optomed is 33.07%. As one of the largest shareholders, the Group continues to 
exercise significant influence, but not control, over the company and so continues to apply the equity method of accounting for its 
interest. See note 29 for further details. 
PSRM and Optomed have a 31 December year end. However, results coterminous with the Group’s year end have been consolidated 
based on the Group’s remaining share of each associate. 
Details of the Group’s associate held at 28 March 2015 are as follows: 
The Group owns 104,210 (2014: 116,727) Class A shares in Optomed out of a total of 315,110 (2014: 285,540) shares in issue 
(Class A and B shares). Each A and B share entitles the holder to one vote. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Interests in associates 
At beginning of the year 5,088 4,792
Disposal cost of investments (951) –
Exchange adjustments 35 (11)
Group’s share of profit of associates 64 307
At end of year 4,236 5,088
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Aggregated amounts relating to associates 
Total assets 4,424 5,021
Total liabilities (2,530) (4,802)
Net assets 1,894 219
Group’s share of net assets of associates 626 103
 
Total revenue 3,333 2,399
Profit 193 591
Group’s share of profit of associates 64 307
Name of associate Country of incorporation Proportion of ownership interest Principal activity 
Optomed Oy Finland 33.07% Design, manufacture and selling
127 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  15 Inventories 
16 Trade and other receivables 
 
128 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The above is stated net of provision for slow-moving and obsolete stock, movements of which are shown below:  
Previous write-downs against inventory have been reversed as a result of increased sales in certain markets or where previously 
written down inventories have been disposed. 
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their cost of replacement. None of the inventory 
has been pledged as security. 
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
Impairment charges are recorded against the trade receivables which the Group believes may not be recoverable. In the case of trade 
receivables that are past due, management makes an assessment of the risk of non-collection, taking into account factors such as 
previous default experience, any disputes or other factors delaying payment and the risk of bankruptcy or other failure of the customer 
to meet their obligations. For trade receivables that are not past due, taking into account good historical collection experience, 
management records an impairment charge only where there is a specific risk of non-collection. 
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items. 
There is no impairment risk identified with regards to prepayments and accrued income or other receivables where no amounts are 
past due. 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Raw materials and consumables 43,480 40,248
Work in progress 8,439 7,161
Finished goods and goods for resale 27,815 23,625
 79,734 71,034
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of the year 10,220 10,631
Amounts reversed against inventories previously impaired and utilisation (307) (606)
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense  1,743 548
Recognition of provisions for businesses acquired 653 116
De-recognition of provisions for businesses disposed (197) –
Exchange adjustments 488 (469)
At end of the year 12,600 10,220
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Trade receivables 141,551 123,295
Allowance for doubtful debts (2,802) (2,353)
 138,749 120,942
Other receivables 5,293 4,099
Prepayments and accrued income 12,422 10,136
 156,464 135,177
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of the year 2,353 2,445
Net impairment loss recognised  923 355
Amounts recovered against trade receivables previously written down (641) (465)
Recognition of provisions for businesses acquired 151 85
De-recognition of provisions for businesses disposed (3) –
Exchange adjustments 19 (67)
At end of the year 2,802 2,353
Notes to the Accounts continued
128 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
17 Trade and other payables: falling due within one year 
18 Borrowings 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 
The ageing of trade receivables was as follows: 
Information concerning the security, currency, interest rates and maturity of the Group’s borrowings is given in note 26. 
  
 Gross trade receivables 
Trade receivables net of 
doubtful debts 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Not yet due 105,649 95,920 105,463 95,834
Up to one month overdue 22,178 18,621 22,054 18,509
Up to two months overdue 4,413 2,776 4,346 2,690
Up to three months overdue 1,999 1,441 1,861 1,361
Over three months overdue 7,312 4,537 5,025 2,548
 141,551 123,295 138,749 120,942
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Trade payables 57,633 50,270
Other taxation and social security 4,673 4,398
Other payables 2,888 3,342
Accruals and deferred income 37,399 30,022
Deferred government grant income 124 259
 102,717 88,291
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Loan notes falling due within one year – 2,731
Overdrafts 1,705 1,405
Total borrowings falling due within one year 1,705 4,136
Loan notes falling due after more than one year 657 –
Unsecured bank loans falling due after more than one year 139,762 104,891
Total borrowings falling due after more than one year 140,419 104,891
 142,124 109,027
129 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  19 Provisions 
Contingent purchase consideration 
Dilapidations and empty property provisions 
Product warranty 
 
 
130 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
Provisions are presented as: 
 
*  Comprises £6,054,000 contingent purchase consideration arising on the acquisition of Advanced Electronics Limited and £642,000 current provisions acquired.  
See note 24. 
The provision at the beginning of the year comprised £1,389,000 falling due within one year and £6,173,000 falling due after one year. 
In the current financial year, the additional provision related mainly to a change in estimate in relation to the acquisition in the prior year 
of Microsurgical Technologies Limited (MST) from $6,504,000 to $9,061,000. £6,054,000 was provided on the acquisition of 
Advanced Electronics Limited (Advanced) (see note 24), of which £2,800,000 was settled during the year. A payment of £1,000,000 
was also made in respect of ASL Holdings Limited (ASL), a prior year acquisition. These payments represent substantially all of the 
current year utilisation of £4,002,000. The £2,311,000 release of provision related mainly to a revision to the estimate for the second 
earn out payment for the acquisition of ASL from £2,500,000 to £197,000.  
Of the closing total provision of £9,650,000, £9,484,000 is due within one year mainly for the acquisitions of Advanced and MST, 
£3,356,000 and £6,123,000 respectively. The balance, relating mainly to ASL, is due after one year. The MST balance was settled 
on 22 May 2015.  
Dilapidations and empty property provisions exist where the Group has lease contracts under which the unavoidable costs of meeting 
its obligations under the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under them. The provisions comprise the 
Directors’ best estimates of future payments: 
a) to restore the fabric of buildings to their original condition where it is a condition of the leases prior to return of the properties; and 
b) on vacant properties, the rental costs of which are not expected to be recoverable from subleasing the properties.  
These commitments cover the period from 2015 to 2029, though they predominantly fall due within five years. 
Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and 
included within the Group companies’ standard terms and conditions. Warranty commitments cover a period of between one and five 
years and typically apply for a 12-month period. The provision represents the Directors’ best estimate of the Group’s liability based on 
past experience.  
 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Current 11,746 4,482
Non-current 1,549 6,777
 13,295 11,259
 
Contingent 
purchase 
consideration 
£000 
Dilapidations 
and empty 
property
£000 
Product 
warranty 
£000 
Legal, 
contractual 
and other 
£000 
 
Total
£000 
At beginning of the year 7,562 1,741 1,827 129 11,259
Unwinding of discount 46 – – – 46
Additional provision in the year 1,690 119 378 21 2,208
Arising on acquisition* 6,054 247 395 – 6,696
Business sold – – (34) – (34)
Utilised during the year (4,002) (207) (166) (26) (4,401)
Released during the year (2,311) (564) (313) (25) (3,213)
Exchange adjustments 611 43 79 1 734
At end of the year 9,650 1,379 2,166 100 13,295
Notes to the Accounts continued
130 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Legal, contractual and other 
20 Trade and other payables: falling due after one year 
21 Deferred tax 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 
Legal, contractual and other comprise mainly amounts reserved against open legal and contractual disputes. The Company has  
on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions  
are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors,  
taking into account professional advice received, and represent Directors’ best estimate of the likely outcome. The timing of utilisation 
of these provisions is frequently uncertain reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and 
negotiations. Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations.  
Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these reserves are shown as current. 
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against Group companies 
unless the Directors, taking into account professional advice received, assess that it is more likely than not that such proceedings  
may be successful.  
 
  
 
2015
£000 
2014 
£000 
Other payables 2,891 2,879
Deferred government grant income 865 685
  3,756 3,564
 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations  
£000 
Acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£000 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£000 
Short–term 
timing 
differences
£000 
Share–based 
payment  
£000 
Goodwill 
timing 
differences 
£000 
Total
£000 
At 29 March 2014 7,372 (28,493) (5,336) (375) 2,066 2,316 (22,450)
Credit/(charge) to Consolidated 
Income Statement (1,078) 5,831 355 60 (27) (1,228) 3,913 
Credit/(charge) to Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive 
Income 6,791 – – (23) – – 6,768 
Credit to equity – – – – 291 – 291
Acquired (note 24) – (9,020) (70) – – – (9,090)
Exchange adjustments – (3,384) (468) 694 – 460 (2,698)
At 28 March 2015 13,085 (35,066) (5,519) 356 2,330 1,548 (23,266)
 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations  
£000 
Acquired 
intangible 
assets 
£000 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£000 
Short–term 
timing 
differences
£000 
Share–based 
payment  
£000 
Goodwill 
timing 
differences 
£000 
Total
£000 
At 30 March 2013 10,851 (36,207) (6,475) 678 1,547 9,158 (20,448)
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated 
Income Statement (1,909) 5,669 753 (1,040) 224 (6,202) (2,505)
Charge to Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive 
Income (1,570) – – (129) – – (1,699)
Credit to equity – – – – 295 – 295
Acquired  – (318) (16) 337 – (67) (64)
Exchange adjustments – 2,363 402 (221) – (573) 1,971
At 29 March 2014 7,372 (28,493) (5,336) (375) 2,066 2,316 (22,450)
131 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  21 Deferred tax continued 
22 Share capital 
 
132 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
financial reporting purposes: 
Movement in net deferred tax liability: 
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 21% from 23% with effect from 1 April 2014. A further reduction in the UK tax rate to 
20%, effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted in the UK Finance Act 2013.  
It is likely that the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption such that no UK tax would 
be due upon remitting those earnings to the UK. However, £19,422,000 (2014: £21,532,000) of those earnings may still result in a tax 
liability, principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. 
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £3,399,000 (2014: £3,143,000) of which only £757,000 has been provided as the 
Group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. 
Temporary timing differences in connection with interests in associates are insignificant. 
At 28 March 2015 the Group had unused capital tax losses of £479,000 (2014: £479,000) for which no deferred tax asset has 
been recognised. 
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 28 March 2015 was 379,645,332 (2014: 379,018,522), including treasury shares of 
1,371,785 (2014: 1,278,148). 
Changes during the year in the issued ordinary share capital were as follows: 
The total consideration received in cash in respect of share options exercised amounted to £893,000 (2014: £194,000). 
At 28 March 2015 no options (2014: 626,810) in respect of ordinary shares remained outstanding. Further details are given in note 23 
to the accounts. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Deferred tax liability (51,862) (43,127)
Deferred tax asset 28,596 20,677
Net deferred tax liability (23,266) (22,450)
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of year (22,450) (20,448)
(Charge)/credit to Consolidated Income Statement:  
 UK (1,147) (2,085)
 Overseas 5,060 (420)
Credit/ (charge) to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 6,768 (1,699)
Credit to equity 291 295
Acquired (note 24) (9,090) (64)
Exchange adjustments (2,698) 1,971
At end of year (23,266) (22,450)
 Issued and fully paid 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Ordinary shares of 10p each 37,965 37,902
 
Issued and 
fully paid 
£000 
At 29 March 2014 37,902 
Share options exercised 63
At 28 March 2015 37,965
Notes to the Accounts continued
132 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
23 Share-based payments 
Share incentive plan 
Share option plans 
Performance share plan 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 
The total cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of share-based payment plans (the ‘employee share 
plans’) was as follows: 
The Group has recorded liabilities of £340,000 (2014: £432,000) in respect of the cash-settled portion of the awards granted under 
the performance share plan. 
Shares awarded under this Plan are purchased in the market by the Plan’s trustees at the time of the award and are held in trust until 
their transfer to qualifying employees; vesting is conditional upon completion of three years’ service. The costs of providing this Plan 
are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the three-year vesting period. 
At the beginning of the year, the Group had outstanding issued options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company under a share 
option plan, approved by shareholders in 1999. This share option plan provided for the grant of two categories of option, both of 
which were subject to performance criteria. No further awards have been made under the Company share option plan since 3 August 
2005. All options lapse if not exercised within 10 years from the date of grant. There are no remaining options over ordinary shares at 
28 March 2015. Options over 626,810 ordinary shares were exercised in the year. No options over ordinary shares lapsed in the year. 
The fair value of the options granted has been recognised in full, and accordingly there is no charge in the current or prior year. 
The performance share plan was approved by shareholders on 3 August 2005 and replaced the previous share option plans from 
which no further grants can be made. 
Awards made under this Plan vest after three years on a sliding scale subject to the Group’s relative Total Shareholder Return against 
the FTSE 250 excluding financial companies, combined with an absolute Return on Total Invested Capital measure. Awards which do 
not vest on the third anniversary of their award lapse. 
A summary of the movements in share awards granted under the performance share plan is as follows: 
The weighted average share price at the date of awards vesting during the year was 585.8p (2014: 557.7p). 
The performance shares outstanding at 28 March 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years  
(2014: 1.4 years).  
   2015   2014 
 
Equity-
settled
£000 
Cash-settled 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Equity- 
settled  
£000 
Cash-settled 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Share incentive plan 569 – 569 641 – 641
Performance share plan 3,829 238 4,067 3,444 411 3,855
 4,398 238 4,636 4,085 411 4,496
 
2015 
Number of 
shares 
awarded 
2014 
Number of 
shares
 awarded 
Outstanding at beginning of year 3,587,492 3,802,315
Granted during the year 1,077,286 1,068,785
Vested during the year (pro-rated for ‘good leavers’) (983,228) (1,198,568)
Lapsed during the year (570,206) (85,040)
Outstanding at end of year 3,111,344 3,587,492
Exercisable at end of year – –
133 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  23 Share-based payments continued 
24 Acquisitions  
 
 
 
 
 
134 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The fair value of these awards was calculated using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of the market-based 
performance conditions, which attach to half of the award, being met, using the following assumptions: 
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. 
In accounting for acquisitions, adjustments are made to the book values of the net assets of the companies acquired to reflect their 
fair values to the Group. Acquired inventories are valued at fair value adopting Group bases and any liabilities for warranties relating to 
past trading are recognised. Other previously unrecognised assets and liabilities at acquisition are included and accounting policies 
are aligned with those of the Group where appropriate. 
The Group made three acquisitions during the year: Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. (RCS); Advanced Electronics Limited 
(Advanced); and Plasticspritzerei AG (Plasticspritzerei). Below are summaries of the assets and liabilities acquired and the purchase 
consideration of: 
a) The total of RCS, Advanced and Plasticspritzerei;  
b) RCS, on a standalone basis; 
c) Advanced, on a standalone basis; and 
d) Plasticspritzerei, on a standalone basis.  
 
 2015 2014 2013 
Expected volatility (%) 21% 24% 26%
Expected life (years) 3 3 3
Share price on date of grant (p) 569.9 568.5 399.9
Option price (p) Nil Nil Nil
Fair value per option (%) 62.4% 63.2% 55.3%
Fair value per option (p) 355.9 359.3 223.25
Notes to the Accounts continued
134 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
(A) Total of RCS, Advanced and Plasticspritzerei 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 
* The initial and contingent purchase considerations paid in cash were £90,828,000 and £2,601,000 respectively. The remainder was satisfied by the issue of £657,000 
of loan notes. 
Due to their contractual dates, the fair value of receivables acquired (shown above) approximate to the gross contractual amounts 
receivable. The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.  
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with paragraph 23 of IFRS 3 (revised). 
None of the goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
The three acquisitions in the year contributed £36,110,000 of revenue and £6,695,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 28 March 
2015. If these acquisitions had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated the Group’s reported revenue and profit 
after tax would have been £6,843,000 and £1,146,000 higher respectively. 
The combined fair value adjustments made for all acquisitions, excluding acquired intangible assets recognised and deferred tax 
thereon, resulted in net adjustments to goodwill of £3,831,000. 
  
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 3,508 30,604 34,112
Property, plant and equipment 2,286 52 2,338
Deferred tax – 226 226
Current assets   
Inventories 5,303 (388) 4,915
Trade and other receivables 9,833 (2,046) 7,787
Corporation tax 251 153 404
Cash and cash equivalents 9,515 104 9,619
Total assets 30,696 28,705 59,401
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables (4,569) 501 (4,068)
Provisions (110) (515) (625)
Corporation tax (686) 327 (359)
Non-current liabilities  
Provisions – (17) (17)
Bank loans (468) – (468)
Retirement benefit obligations – (234) (234)
Deferred tax (28) (9,288) (9,316)
Total liabilities (5,861) (9,226) (15,087)
Net assets of businesses acquired 24,835 19,479 44,314
    
Initial consideration paid (RCS, Advanced and Plasticspritzerei)* 91,286
Contingent purchase consideration paid (Advanced)* 2,800
Contingent purchase consideration estimated to be paid (Advanced) 3,254
Total consideration  97,340
  
Goodwill arising on current year acquisitions  53,026
135 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  24 Acquisitions continued 
Analysis of cash outflow in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
136 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
* The £3,933,000 comprises £2,731,000 loan notes and £1,202,000 contingent purchase consideration paid in respect of prior period acquisitions, all of which had been 
provided in the prior year’s financial statements. 
 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Initial cash consideration paid  90,828 3,315
Initial cash consideration adjustment (prior year acquisition) – (337)
Cash acquired on acquisitions (9,619) (754)
Contingent consideration paid in relation to current year acquisitions 2,601 –
Contingent consideration paid and loan notes repaid in cash in relation to prior year acquisitions* 3,933 14,461
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions (per Consolidated Cash Flow Statement) 87,743 16,685
Notes to the Accounts continued
136 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
(B) Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. 
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 
The Group acquired the entire share capital of Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. and associated companies (RCS), on 30 May 2014 
for an initial cash consideration of US$116,000,000 (£69,341,000). This was subsequently adjusted by an additional US$569,000 
(£340,000) which was paid in July 2014 based on the final agreed value of the net tangible assets at the acquisition date. 
RCS forms part of the Process Safety sector and specialises in the design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring 
products and systems into diverse industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical and utilities. The acquisition of RCS 
expands Halma’s portfolio of critical safety products which are sold into the Energy and Utility markets to protect life and operational 
assets. The existing RCS management team remain in place and will continue to operate the business. The excess of the fair value 
of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer related intangibles of £14,697,000; 
marketing and technology related intangibles of £10,869,000; with residual goodwill arising of £39,537,000. The goodwill represents:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to leverage this expertise across some of Halma’s businesses; and  
c) the ability to exploit the Group’s existing customer base. 
The RCS acquisition contributed £22,038,000 of revenue and £3,705,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 28 March 2015.  
If this acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after 
tax would have been £5,525,000 and £771,000 higher respectively. 
 
 
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 420 25,146 25,566
Property, plant and equipment 441 102 543
Deferred tax – 203 203
Current assets  
Inventories 4,098 (353) 3,745
Trade and other receivables 4,191 (192) 3,999
Cash and cash equivalents 5,441 – 5,441
Corporation tax 251 (61) 190
Total assets 14,842 24,845 39,687
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables (1,521) (169) (1,690)
Provisions – (148) (148)
Non-current liabilities  
Deferred tax (28) (7,677) (7,705)
Total liabilities (1,549) (7,994) (9,543)
Net assets of businesses acquired 13,293 16,851 30,144
  
Initial consideration (all cash)  69,681
Total consideration  69,681
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition  39,537
137 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  24 Acquisitions continued 
(C) Advanced Electronics Limited 
 
138 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The Group acquired the entire share capital of Advanced Electronics Limited (Advanced) on 14 May 2014 for an initial consideration 
of £15,927,000 (£458,000 of which was satisfied by loan notes). Contingent consideration is payable over a two year period based 
on the profits of the company for the twelve months to April 2014 and eleven months to March 2015. The total estimated payable 
was £6,054,000, of which £2,601,000 has been paid in cash and £199,000 in loan notes in the year. The remainder, subject to actual 
performance, is payable in June 2015. The maximum contingent consideration payable is £10,100,000. Management’s current best 
estimate of the likely total payable has been increased by £102,000 to £6,156,000 based on performance observed to date. 
Advanced forms part of the Infrastructure Safety sector and specialises in the manufacture of networked fire detection and control 
systems. Advanced’s controllers can be integrated into system solutions using field devices and products from a broad spectrum 
of suppliers, meeting the increasing diversity of regulatory requirements across the world. Its main manufacturing facility is located 
near Newcastle in the UK with a dedicated electronics and software development facility in Barnsley. It has additional commercial 
offices in the UK, the USA and Dubai. Advanced brings to Halma complementary products that help capture the international 
growth opportunity in the increasingly regulated Fire market. The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value 
of the assets acquired is represented by customer related intangibles of £5,306,000; marketing and technology related intangibles of 
£1,462,000; with residual goodwill arising of £9,824,000. Included in the £5,458,000 fair value adjustment to intangible assets shown 
above is a reduction of £1,310,000 to the carrying value of capitalised development costs resulting from the application of Halma 
accounting policies to the acquisition date balance. The residual goodwill represents:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to leverage this expertise across some of Halma’s businesses; and  
c) the ability to exploit the Group’s existing customer base. 
The Advanced acquisition contributed £13,936,000 of revenue and £2,301,000 of profit after tax for the year ended 28 March 2015. 
If this acquisition had been held since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after 
tax would have been £1,318,000 and £323,000 higher respectively.  
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 3,088 5,458 8,546
Property, plant and equipment 1,834 (606) 1,228
Deferred Tax – 23 23
Current assets   
Inventories 1,124 1 1,125
Trade and other receivables 5,046 (1,890) 3,156
Corporation tax – 214 214
Cash and cash equivalents 2,259 104 2,363
Total assets 13,351 3,304 16,655
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables (2,759) 703 (2,056)
Provisions – (363) (363)
Corporation tax (582) 582 –
Non-current liabilities   
Bank loans (468) – (468)
Deferred tax – (1,611) (1,611)
Total liabilities (3,809) (689) (4,498)
Net assets of businesses acquired 9,542 2,615 12,157
   
Initial consideration   15,927
Contingent purchase consideration paid    2,800
Contingent purchase consideration estimated to be paid  3,254
Total consideration   21,981
   
Goodwill arising on acquisition   9,824
Notes to the Accounts continued
138 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
(D) Plasticspritzerei AG 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 139 
On 2 May 2014 the Group acquired Plasticspritzerei AG (Plasticspritzerei), located in Wolfhalden, Switzerland at the same facility 
as another Group company, Medicel AG (Medicel). Initial consideration paid for the company was CHF8,403,000 (£5,678,000) 
including the consideration of CHF903,000 (£610,000) received for the Group’s disposal of its 50% ownership interest in its associate 
PSRM Immobilien AG (PSRM) and CHF2,687,000 (£1,815,000) paid for the industrial segment of Plasticspritzerei. The Group then 
immediately sold the industrial segment of the business to a third party, resulting in a net cash cost to the Group of CHF4,813,000 
(£3,253,000), (CHF5,716,000 (£3,863,000) excluding the proceeds from the PSRM disposal). These transactions have resulted in 
the Group owning only those assets which support Medicel’s business. Plasticspritzerei will be operated by Medicel’s management 
within Halma’s Medical sector, further expanding the Group’s manufacturing excellence in ophthalmic diagnostic and surgical 
instrumentation.  
No customer relationship intangibles were recognised as part of this transaction because Medicel is the sole customer for the 
Plasticspritzerei business acquired and the fair value of any customer relationship is therefore eliminated from a Group perspective. 
Goodwill of £3,665,000 was recognised as part of this transaction, representing the excess of the fair value of consideration 
transferred over the fair value of the assets acquired and is attributable to:  
a) the technical expertise of the acquired workforce; 
b) the opportunity to secure and advance the supply chain of Medicel AG; and 
c) the ability to exploit the Group’s existing customer base. 
The Plasticspritzerei acquisition resulted in intercompany sales to Medicel of £2,176,000 and external sales of £136,000 for the period 
ended 28 March 2015 and contributed £689,000 to profit after tax for the Group for the same period. If this acquisition had been held 
since the start of the financial year, it is estimated that the Group’s reported revenue and profit after tax would have been £nil and 
£52,000 higher respectively. 
 
 
Book value  
£000 
Fair value 
adjustments 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 11 556 567
Current assets  
Inventories 81 (36) 45
Trade and other receivables 596 36 632
Cash and cash equivalents 1,815 – 1,815
Total assets 2,503 556 3,059
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables (289) (33) (322)
Provisions (110) (4) (114)
Corporation tax (104) (255) (359)
Non-current liabilities  
Provisions – (17) (17)
Retirement benefit obligations – (234) (234)
Total liabilities (503) (543) (1,046)
Net assets of businesses acquired 2,000 13 2,013
  
Initial cash consideration  5,678
Total consideration  5,678
  
Goodwill arising on acquisition  3,665
139 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  25 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
 
140 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
 
 
The net cash inflow from bank loans in 2015 comprised repayments of £35,341,000 offset by drawdowns of £68,962,000 (2014: 
net cash outflow comprising drawdowns of £57,791,000 offset by drawdowns of £7,498,000). The £9,151,000 net cash acquired 
comprised £9,619,000 cash and £468,000 of bank loans, and net overdraft disposed related to the Monitor overdraft of £36,000. 
The net of the above £4,000,000 cash outflow, £9,619,000 net cash acquired and £36,000 net overdraft disposed is equal to the 
increase in cash and cash equivalents of £5,655,000 in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Reconciliation of profit from operations to net cash inflow from operating activities: 
Profit on continuing operations before finance income and expense, share of results of associates and 
(profit)/loss on disposal of operations 137,063 143,571 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14,005 13,625
Amortisation of computer software 1,211 1,168
Amortisation of capitalised development costs and other intangibles 5,505 4,002
Impairment of capitalised development costs 236 –
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19,954 17,515
Share-based payment expense in excess of amounts paid 3,803 3,470
Additional payments to pension plans (6,560) (5,892)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and computer software (590) (26)
Effects of closure to future benefit accruals on defined benefit pension plans – (4,246)
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 174,627 173,187
Increase in inventories (1,097) (5,127)
Increase in receivables (10,656) (9,111)
Increase in payables and provisions 5,801 3,334
Revision to estimate of contingent consideration payable (620) (12,394)
Cash generated from operations 168,055 149,889
Taxation paid (30,824) (28,351)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 137,231 121,538
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and bank balances 41,230 34,531
Overdrafts (included in current borrowings) (1,705) (1,405)
Cash and cash equivalents 39,525 33,126
 
At  
29 March 
2014  
£000 
Cash flow 
£000 
Net 
 cash/(debt)
 acquired 
£000 
Net 
 overdraft 
disposed 
£000 
Loan notes 
repaid/ 
 (issued) 
£000 
Exchange 
adjustments 
£000 
At 
28 March 
2015 
£000 
Analysis of net debt    
Cash and bank balances  34,531 (3,664) 9,619 – – 744 41,230
Overdrafts (1,405) (336) – 36 – –  (1,705)
Cash and cash equivalents 33,126 (4,000) 9,619 36 – 744 39,525
Loan notes falling due within 
one year (2,731) – – – 2,731 – – 
Loan notes falling due after 
more than one year – – – – (657) – (657)
Bank loans falling due after  
more than one year (104,891) (33,621) (468) – – (782) (139,762)
Total net debt (74,496) (37,621) 9,151 36 2,074 (38) (100,894)
Notes to the Accounts continued
140 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
26 Financial instruments 
Policy 
Capital risk management 
Foreign currency risk 
Interest rate risk 
Credit risk 
Liquidity risk 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 
The Group’s treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Group’s operations and strategic 
plans. No complex derivative financial instruments are used, and no trading or speculative transactions in financial instruments are 
undertaken. Where the Group does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal 
operations and its financing. Operations are financed mainly through retained profits and, in certain geographic locations, bank 
borrowings. Foreign currency risk is the most significant aspect for the Group in the area of financial instruments. It is exposed to a 
lesser extent to other risks such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of 
these risks and these policies are summarised below. The Group’s policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the 
financial year. 
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement 
and the bases of recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in the Accounting Policies note.  
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, 
which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18 to the Accounts, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity 
holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity. 
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a consequence of both trading with foreign companies and owning subsidiaries 
located in foreign countries. 
The Group earns a significant proportion of its profit in currencies other than Sterling. This gives rise to translational currency risk, 
where the Sterling value of profits earned by the Group’s foreign subsidiaries fluctuates with the strength of Sterling relative to their 
operating (or ‘functional’) currencies. The Group does not hedge this risk, so its reported profit is sensitive to the strength of Sterling, 
particularly against the US Dollar and Euro. The Group also has transactional currency exposures. These arise on sales or purchases 
by operating companies in currencies other than the companies’ operating (or ‘functional’) currency. Significant sales and purchases 
are matched where possible and a proportion of the net exposure is hedged by means of forward foreign currency contracts. 
The Group has significant investments in overseas operations in the USA and EU, with further investments in Australia, New Zealand, 
Singapore, Switzerland, China and India. As a result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ 
exchange rates. Where significant and appropriate, currency denominated net assets are hedged by currency borrowings. These 
currency exposures are reviewed regularly.  
The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and cash deposits. Where bank borrowings are used to finance 
operations they tend to be short term with floating interest rates. Borrowings used to provide longer-term funding are drawn on the 
Group’s loan facilities and have fixed interest rates with maturities of not more than one year. 
Surplus funds are placed on short-term fixed rate deposit or in floating rate deposit accounts. 
Credit risk is defined as the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss 
from defaults. Credit ratings are supplied by independent agencies where available, and if not available, the Group uses other publicly 
available financial information and its own trading records to rate its major customers. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of 
its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved 
counterparties. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed regularly. 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas. Ongoing credit 
evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover 
is purchased.  
The carrying amount of trade, tax and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and cash of £186,936,000 (2014: 
£160,848,000) represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk as no collateral or other credit enhancements are held. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit 
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.  
The Group has a syndicated revolving credit facility of £360m with its core group of five banks extending to November 2018. 
This facility is the main source of long-term funding for the Group. 
  
141 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  26 Financial instruments continued 
Currency exposures 
Translational exposures 
Transactional exposures  
Interest rate risk profile 
 Notes to the Accounts continued
The Group has a strong cash flow and the funds generated by operating companies are managed regionally based on 
geographic location.  
Funds are placed on deposit with secure, highly-rated banks. For short-term working capital purposes, most operating companies 
utilise local bank overdrafts. These practices allow a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility. 
Because of the nature of their use, the facilities are typically ‘on demand’ and as such uncommitted. Overdraft facilities are typically 
renewed annually. 
It is estimated, by reference to the Group’s US Dollar and Euro denominated profits, that a one per cent change in the value of the 
US Dollar relative to Sterling would have had a £561,000 (2014: £505,000) impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax; and a 
one per cent change in the value of the Euro relative to Sterling would have had a £214,000 (2014: £207,000) impact on the Group’s 
profit before tax for the year ended 28 March 2015. 
The Group has net foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities that are assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional 
currency of the underlying company. These comprise cash and overdrafts as well as certain trade receivable and payable balances. 
These foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement as a result of movement in exchange rates. The exposures are predominantly Euro and US Dollar. Group policy 
is for a significant portion of foreign currency exposures, including sales and purchases, to be hedged by forward foreign exchange 
contracts in the company in which the transaction is recorded.  
The Group’s financial assets which are subject to interest rate fluctuations comprise interest bearing cash equivalents which totalled 
£998,000 at 28 March 2015 (2014: £1,742,000). These comprised Sterling denominated deposits of £92,000 (2014: £92,000), and 
Euro, US Dollar and Renminbi deposits of £906,000 (2014: £1,650,000) which are placed on local money markets and earn interest 
at market rates. Cash balances of £40,232,000 (2014: £32,789,000) earn interest at local market rates. 
The financial liabilities which are subject to interest rate fluctuations comprise bank loans, bank overdrafts, loan notes and certain 
unsecured loans, which totalled £142,124,000 at 28 March 2015 (2014: £109,027,000). All bank loans bear interest at floating rates 
where the fixed period is typically no more than three months. Interest rates are based on the LIBOR of the currency in which the 
liabilities arise plus a small margin. Bank overdrafts bear interest at local base rates. The loan notes outstanding at 28 March 2015 
attract interest at 1%. 
The Group’s weighted average interest cost on net debt for the year is 1.80% (2014: 1.59%). 
For the year ended 28 March 2015 it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would reduce the 
Group’s profit before tax by £1,675,000 (2014: £1,520,000).  
Maturity of financial liabilities 
With the exception of the contingent purchase consideration, other payables, provisions and borrowings due after one year, all of 
the Group’s financial liabilities mature in one year or less or on demand. The contractual contingent purchase consideration due after 
one year of £166,000 (2014: £6,173,000) falls due between one and two years. No amounts are payable after more than two years 
(2014: £nil). Other creditors due after more than one year include £1,694,000 (2014: £1,569,000) due between one and two years, 
£1,197,000 (2014: £1,308,000) due between two and five years, with the balance of £nil (2014: £2,000) due after more than five 
years. Deferred government grant income due after more than one year includes £124,000 (2014: £28,000) due between one and two 
years, £146,000 (2014: £47,000) due between two and five years, with the balance of £595,000 (201 4: £610,000) due after more 
than five years. 
The Group’s bank loans are revolving credit facilities and the amount and timing of future payments and drawdowns is unknown. 
It is therefore not possible to calculate the interest arising on these loans and we have therefore not disclosed the maturity of the  
gross cash flows (including interest) in relation to these liabilities. 
142 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Analysis of interest bearing financial liabilities 
Sterling denominated bank loans 132,000 97,000
Swiss Franc denominated bank loans 7,762 7,891
Total bank loans 139,762 104,891
Overdrafts (principally Sterling and US Dollar denominated) 1,705 1,405
Sterling denominated loan notes 657 2,731
Total interest bearing financial liabilities  142,124 109,027
Notes to the Accounts continued
142 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 
Borrowing facilities 
The Group’s principal source of long-term funding is its unsecured five-year £360m revolving credit facility, which expires in 
November 2018. The Group has additional short-term unsecured and committed US bank facilities of £16,892,000, which  
mature in June 2015 and were undrawn at 28 March 2015. 
Other short-term operational funding is provided by cash generated from operations and by local bank overdrafts. These overdraft 
facilities are uncommitted and are generally renewed on an annual or ongoing basis and hence the facilities expire within one year  
or less. 
The Group’s undrawn committed facilities available at 28 March 2015 were £237,130,000 (2014: £270,169,000) of which 
£16,892,000 (2014: £15,060,000) matures within one year and £220,238,000 (201 4: £255,109,000) between two and five years. 
UK companies have cross-guaranteed £17,990,000 (2014: £22,122,000) of overdraft facilities of which £1,538,000 (2014: 
£1,100,000) was drawn. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
As at 28 March 2015 and 29 March 2014 there were no significant differences between the book value and fair value (as determined 
by market value) of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
The fair value of floating and fixed rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are reset to market rates 
at intervals of less than one year.  
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using readily available 
market data, and represents a level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7. 
Hedging 
As explained previously, the Group’s policy is to hedge significant sales and purchases denominated in foreign currency using forward 
currency contracts. These instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is typically £nil, and subsequent changes in fair value 
are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement, unless hedge accounted. 
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts outstanding as at the year end, which mostly mature within one year 
and therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 12 months: 
Average exchange 
rate/£ Foreign currency Contract value Fair value 
2015 2014 
2015 
000 
2014 
000 
2015  
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Forward contracts not in a designated 
cash flow hedge 
US Dollars 1.51 1.65 4,780 5,186 3,163 3,139 (67) 15
Euros 1.34 1.21 1,881 1,951 1,407 1,613 34 –
Other currencies 4,721 515 87 (25)
9,291 5,267 54 (10)
Forward contracts in a designated 
cash flow hedge 
US Dollars 1.59 1.60 7,313 7,993 4,593 4,982 (320) 173
Euros 1.29 1.18 12,289 10,334 9,563 8,724 527 174
Czech Koruna 35.73 32.82 (73,251) (109,844) (2,050) (3,347) (93) (27)
Other currencies 3,282 1,028 265 19
15,388 11,387 379 339
Total forward contracts 
US Dollars 1.56 1.62 12,093 13,179 7,756 8,121 (387) 188
Euros 1.29 1.19 14,170 12,285 10,970 10,337 561 174
Czech Koruna 35.73 32.82 (73,251) (109,844) (2,050) (3,347) (93) (27)
Other currencies 8,003 1,543 352 (6)
24,679 16,654 433 329
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 180 147
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure 253 182
433 329
143 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  26 Financial instruments continued 
Market risk 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
  
  
 
144 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
The fair values of the forward contracts are disclosed as a £1,069,000 (2014: £496,000) asset and £636,000 (2014: £167,000) liability 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Any movements in the fair values of the contracts are recognised in equity until the hedge transaction occurs, when gains/losses are 
recycled to finance income or finance expense.  
There was no ineffectiveness arising with regards to forward contracts in a designated cash flow hedge.  
With the exception of currency exposures, the disclosures in this note exclude short-term receivables and payables. 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group enters into 
derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk, including: 
 forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on the export of goods to and from the USA, 
Mainland Europe and the UK; and 
 foreign exchange loans to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on translation of the Group’s investment in foreign operations 
which have the Euro and Swiss Franc as their functional currencies. 
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis as described below.  
There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to market risks or in the manner in which these risks are managed  
and measured.  
The Group is mainly exposed to the currency of the USA (US Dollar currency) and the currency of Mainland Europe (Euro currency).  
The carrying amount of the Group’s US Dollar and Euro denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date 
are as follows: 
If Sterling increased by 10% against the US Dollar and the Euro, profits before taxation and other equity would decrease as follows: 
The profit sensitivity arises mainly from the translation of overseas profits earned during the year. 10% is the sensitivity rate which 
management assesses to be a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s profit sensitivity has increased 
against the US Dollar and Euro because more of the Group’s profits are earned in these currencies.  
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Analysis of movement in hedging reserves  
Amounts removed from Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and included in Consolidated 
Income Statement during the year (182) 317 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure 253 182
Net movement in hedging reserves in the year in relation to the effective portion of changes in fair value 
of cash flow hedges 71 499 
At beginning of year 182 (317)
At end of year 253 182
 Assets Liabilities 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
US Dollar 169,047 142,678 42,793 32,433
Euro 61,741 64,525 15,488 14,818
 US Dollar Euro 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Profit 5,153 4,633 1,964 1,899
Other equity 11,478 10,022 4,205 4,519
Notes to the Accounts continued
144 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
27 Commitments 
Capital commitments 
Commitments under operating leases 
28 Retirement benefits 
Defined contribution plans 
Defined benefit plans 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 145 
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted at 28 March 2015 but not recognised in these accounts amounts to £5,312,000  
(2014: £746,000). 
The Group has entered into commercial leases on properties and other equipment. The former expire between April 2015 and August 
2029 and the latter between April 2015 and March 2020. Only certain property agreements contain an option for renewal at rental 
prices based on market prices at the time of exercise. 
Total payments under non-cancellable operating leases will be made as follows: 
Group companies operate both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The Halma Group Pension Plan and the 
Apollo Pension and Life Assurance Plan (both UK) have defined benefit sections with assets held in separate trustee administered 
funds. Both of these sections had already closed to new entrants in 2002/03. During the prior year, following consultation with 
members, it was decided that future benefit accruals for existing members of these sections would cease from 1 December 2014. 
From that date, the former defined benefit members joined the existing defined contribution section within the Halma Group Pension 
Plan. This closure to future benefit accruals resulted in a curtailment gain in the prior year of £4,246,000 (before closure costs of 
£298,000), which was included in the Adjustments column in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Overseas subsidiaries have adopted mainly defined contribution plans, with the exception of three small defined benefit plans  
in the Swiss entities of Medicel AG, Robutec GmbH and Plasticspritzerei AG, which was acquired during the year. 
The amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined contribution plans was £5,616,000 (2014: 
£4,042,000) and represents contributions payable to these plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans. The assets 
of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. Where there are employees who leave 
the plans prior to vesting fully in the contributions, the ancillary contributions payable by the Group may be reduced by the amount of 
forfeited contributions. 
The Group’s significant defined benefit plans are for qualifying employees of its UK subsidiaries. Under the plans, the employees 
are entitled to retirement benefits of up to two thirds of final pensionable salary on attainment of a retirement age of 60, for members 
of the Executive Board, and 65, for all other qualifying employees. No other post-retirement benefits are provided. The plans are 
funded plans. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Halma Group Pension Plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
was carried out at 1 December 2011 by Mr Adrian Gibbons, Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit 
method. The projected unit credit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the plan liabilities make allowance for 
projected earnings. Mr Gibbons also carried out the 1 April 2012 actuarial valuation of the Apollo Pension and Life Assurance Plan 
on the same basis. The actuarial valuations as at 1 December 2014 and 1 April 2015 for the two plans are currently being conducted. 
  
 Land and buildings Other 
 
2015 
£000 
2014  
£000 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Within one year 8,611 6,566 429 453
Within two to five years 19,495 13,989 503 856
After five years 6,151 2,257 – –
 34,257 22,812 932 1,309
145 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  28 Retirement benefits continued 
Mortality assumptions: 
 
146 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
An alternative to the projected unit credit method is a valuation on a solvency basis, often estimated using the cost of buying out 
benefits at the balance sheet date with a suitable insurance company. This amount represents the amount that would be required to 
settle the plan liabilities at the balance sheet date rather than the Group continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the plan. The 
Group estimates that this would amount to £430m (2014: £390m). 
Investigations have been carried out within the past three years into the mortality experience of the Group’s UK defined benefit plans. 
These investigations concluded that the current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality 
rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the UK plan liabilities are set out below: 
 
  
 2015 2014 2013 
Key assumptions used (UK plans):   
Discount rate 3.25% 4.40% 4.40%
Expected return on plan assets 3.25% 4.40% 5.33%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.00% 3.20% 3.30%
Pension increases LPI 2.5% 2.20% 2.20% 2.20%
Pension increases LPI 3.0% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Inflation – RPI 3.00% 3.20% 3.30%
Inflation – CPI 2.00% 2.20% 2.30%
 
2015  
Years 
2014 
Years 
2013 
Years 
Retiring today:   
 Males 23.4 23.4 23.3
 Females 26.0 25.9 25.8
Retiring in 20 years:   
 Males 25.3 25.2 25.1
 Females 27.9 27.9 27.8
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on plan liabilities 
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 10.4% 
Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 6.8% 
Rate of salary growth Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 1.7% 
Rate of mortality Increase by one year Increase by 2.8% 
Notes to the Accounts continued
146 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 147 
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the UK and Swiss defined benefit plans are as follows: 
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure. 
The actual return on plan assets was £30.4m (2014: £7.8m). 
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure 
since the date of transition to IFRSs is £78m (2014: £43m). 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its UK and Swiss defined benefit 
retirement benefit plans is as follows: 
*  At 28 March 2015, the fair value of the obligations and assets of the UK plans were £285,751,000 (2014: £223,996,000) and £220,331,000 (2014: £187,511,000) 
respectively and of the Swiss plans were £5,845,000 (2014: £3,362,000) and £4,475,000 (2014: £2,998,000) respectively. 
Under the current arrangements, cash contributions in the region of £7m per year would be made for the immediate future with the 
objective of eliminating the pension deficit. However, the schedule of future contributions is currently under discussion. 
Movements in the present value of the UK and Swiss defined benefit obligations were as follows: 
 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Current service cost 1,501 2,653
Administration expenses – 638
Curtailment gain  – (4,246)
Net interest charge on pension plan liabilities 1,419 1,875
 2,920 920
 
2015* 
£000 
2014 
£000 
2013 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (291,596) (227,358) (223,447)
Fair value of plan assets 224,806 190,509 176,275
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (66,790) (36,849) (47,172)
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of year  (227,358) (223,447)
Service cost (1,501) (2,653)
Curtailment gain – 4,246
Interest cost (9,804) (9,707)
Actuarial losses (56,830) (791)
Defined benefit obligations of business acquired (note 24) (1,256) –
Contributions from plan members (804) (1,085)
Benefits paid 6,116 5,982
Premiums paid 28 97
Foreign exchange (187) –
At end of year (291,596) (227,358)
147 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  28 Retirement benefits continued 
 
 
 
 
148 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
Movements in the fair value of the UK and Swiss plan assets were as follows: 
The net movement on actuarial gains and losses of the UK and Swiss plans was as follows: 
The analysis of the UK plan assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
The overall expected rate of return is a weighted average. 
In conjunction with the trustees, the Group conducts asset-liability reviews for its defined benefit pension plan. The results of 
these reviews are used to assist the trustees and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the 
structure of the liabilities of the plan. They are also used to assist the trustees in managing the volatility in the underlying investment 
performance and risk of a significant increase in the defined benefit deficit by providing information used to determine the plan’s 
investment strategy.  
As a consequence, the Group is progressively giving more emphasis to a closer return matching of plan assets and liabilities,  
both to ensure the long-term security of its defined benefit commitment and to reduce earnings and balance sheet volatility. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of year  190,509 176,275
Expected return on plan assets 8,385 7,832
Administrative expenses – (638)
Actuarial gains 22,035 2,851
Plan assets of business acquired (note 24) 1,022 –
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 8,060 9,183
Contributions from plan members 804 1,085
Benefits paid (6,116) (5,982)
Premiums paid (28) (97)
Foreign exchange 135 –
At end of year 224,806 190,509
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Defined benefit obligations (56,830) (791)
Fair value of plan assets 22,035 2,851
Net actuarial (losses)/gains (34,795) 2,060
 Fair value of assets 
 
2015
%
2014 
% 
2013 
% 
2015  
£000 
2014 
£000 
2013 
£000 
Equity instruments 3.25 4.40 6.43 114,314 101,155 101,355
Debt instruments 3.25 4.40 4.70 89,743 71,451 61,727
Property 3.25 4.40 3.65 16,274 14,905 13,193
 3.25 4.40 5.33 220,331 187,511 176,275
Notes to the Accounts continued
148 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
29 Disposal of operations 
30 Events after the balance sheet date 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 149 
The five-year history of experience adjustments was as follows: 
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the UK and Swiss plans during the year ending 2 April 2016 is £6.8m, 
subject to the finalisation of the 2014 actuarial valuation. 
The levels of contributions are based on the current service cost and the expected future cash flows of the defined benefit pension 
plan. The Group estimates the plan liabilities on average to fall due over 20 and 27 years, respectively, for the Halma and Apollo plans. 
On 30 May 2014, the Group disposed of Monitor Elevator Products, Inc. (Monitor) from its Infrastructure Safety sector. The total 
consideration was US$6,243,000 (£3,716,000), of which US$5,514,000 (£3,282,000) was received in cash at completion, before 
subsequently being reduced by US$171,000 (£102,000) for the final agreed closing net asset value. The remaining US$900,000 
was retained in escrow to be released to Halma on the second anniversary of the transaction subject to any valid warranty/indemnity 
claims being made by the purchaser. The Directors estimate that the entire US$900,000 held in escrow will be received. 
The profit on disposal was US$1,808,000 (£1,076,000), which is net of £189,000 of cumulative foreign exchange losses reclassified 
to the Income Statement and £273,000 of disposal costs. Net assets disposed were US$3,659,000 (£2,178,000). No goodwill was 
disposed of or impaired as a result of this transaction.  
The Group’s partial disposal of Optomed during the year for €876,000 (£695,000) resulted in a profit on disposal of £223,000. 
Further details are included in Note 14. 
The Group’s disposal of its 50% ownership interest in PSRM Immobilien AG (PSRM) for CHF903,000 (£610,000) resulted in a fair 
value gain being recognised in the Income Statement of £131,000. This represented the excess of the fair value of the Group’s 
interest in the associate over its carrying value. Further details are included in Note 14. 
The £4,248,000 cash inflow on disposal of operations shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement represents the £3,180,000, 
£695,000 and £610,000 proceeds from the sale of the shares in Monitor, Optomed, and PSRM respectively plus the £36,000 
overdraft in Monitor less the disposal costs of £273,000.  
The total profit on disposal of operations shown in note 1 of £1,430,000 comprises £1,076,000 for the disposal of Monitor, £223,000 
for the partial disposal of shares in Optomed and £131,000 for the fair value gain recognised in relation to the disposal of PSRM. 
In the prior year, the loss on disposal relates to late transaction costs and a revision to amounts recoverable on the disposals by the 
Group, in 2012, of its Asset Monitoring businesses and Volumatic Limited. The £1,917,000 cash inflow related mainly to a release 
from escrow. Further details are provided on page 143 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.  
On 19 May 2015 the Group acquired the entire membership interest of Value Added Solutions, LLC (‘VAS’) for an initial cash 
consideration of $5,000,000, adjustable based on the closing date working capital. Additionally, a performance payment of up to 
$1,500,000, based upon results achieved in the period to 1 October 2016, will be paid on 1 April 2017. 
VAS will operate as a ‘bolt-on’ to Diba Industries Inc., within Halma’s Medical sector. Diba Industries creates innovative fluid handling 
solutions that are invaluable to device OEMs, while VAS specialises in precision plastic machining, production of thermally bonded 
manifolds, and fluid component integrations. VAS will add complementary expertise, capabilities, and products that will allow Diba to 
provide broader solutions to its existing customers, as well as expand its customer base. VAS’s production facility is located in Berlin, 
CT (USA). Due to the proximity of the acquisition date to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, it is impractical 
to provide further information.
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
2013  
£000 
2012 
£000 
2011 
£000 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (291,596) (227,358) (223,447) (185,956) (177,055)
Fair value of plan assets 224,806 190,509 176,275 152,959 140,818
Deficit in the plan (66,790) (36,849) (47,172) (32,997) (36,237)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities  
Amount 4,271 – 246 (224) 157
Percentage of plan liabilities  1% – – – –
Experience adjustments on plan assets  
Amount  22,031 (30) (10,756) (1,804) (944)
Percentage of plan assets 10% 0% (5)% (1)% (1)%
149 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  31 Related party transactions 
Trading transactions 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
 
 
150 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Notes to the Accounts continued
 
Other related parties comprises one company with a Halma employee on the board and from which the Halma subsidiary rents 
property. All the transactions above are on an arm’s length basis and on standard business terms. 
The remuneration of the Directors and Executive Board members, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set 
out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further information about the 
remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 90. 
 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Associated companies  
Purchases from associated companies  638 524
Amounts due to associated companies 161 56
Amounts due from associated companies – 128
  
Other related parties  
Rent charged by other related parties 113 115
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Wages and salaries 5,212 4,353
Pension costs 169 130
Share-based payment charge 1,799 1,908
 7,180 6,391
Notes to the Accounts continued
150 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
A J Williams K J Thompson  
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 151 
Company Balance Sheet
 
 
The financial statements of Halma plc, company number 40932, were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 June 2015. 
Director Director 
 
 
 Notes 
28 March 
2015
£000 
29 March 
2014
£000 
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets C3 3,348 3,310
Investments C4 163,986 142,005
  167,334 145,315
Current assets  
Debtors (amounts falling due within one year) C5 45,548 43,740
Debtors (amounts falling due after more than one year) C5 415,225 344,307
Short-term deposits  92 92
Cash at bank and in hand  174 2,417
  461,039 390,556
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
Borrowings C6 10,675 10,998
Creditors C7 53,316 43,639
Current tax payable  3,435 3,375
  67,426 58,012
Net current assets  393,613 332,544
Total assets less current liabilities  560,947 477,859
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
Borrowings C6 140,419 104,891
Creditors C8 11,753 12,940
Net assets  408,775 360,028
Capital and reserves  
Share capital C10 37,965 37,902
Share premium account C11 23,608 22,778
Treasury shares C11 (8,450) (7,054)
Capital redemption reserve C11 185 185
Other reserves C11 (10,412) (7,647)
Profit and loss account C11 365,879 313,864
Shareholders’ funds C12 408,775 360,028
Company Balance sheet
151 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  C1 Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
Related parties 
Foreign currencies 
Derivative financial instruments 
Share-based payments 
Investments 
Fixed assets and depreciation 
Leases 
Pensions 
Taxation 
Bank borrowings 
Notes to the Company Accounts 
152 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
The separate Company financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, 
and comply with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law. The principal Company accounting policies have been 
applied consistently throughout the current and preceding years and are described below. 
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ from disclosing transactions with other members of the 
Halma group. 
Transactions in foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date. Any gain or loss arising 
from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account. 
The company is not in scope for FRS 29 which is applicable to all entities adopting FRS 26, with the exception of parent companies in 
respect of their single-entity financial statements, provided the entity is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements 
which include disclosures that comply with FRS 29. The Company’s consolidated accounts, found on pages 99 to 150, include 
disclosures that comply with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (the IFRS equivalent to FRS 29). 
The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Group’s policy 
under IFRS 2. This policy is shown on page 133. 
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not 
depreciated, is provided on all fixed assets on the straight-line method, each item being written off over its estimated life. The principal 
annual rates used for this purpose are: 
The costs of operating leases of property and other assets are charged on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. 
The Company makes contributions to defined contribution pension plans, which are charged against profits when they become 
payable. The Company also participates in a Group-wide defined benefit pension plan. This plan is operated on a basis that does not 
enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities, and in accordance with FRS 17 the Company 
accounts for its contributions to the plan as if it was a defined contribution plan. 
Taxation comprises current and deferred tax. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable, on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
The Company provides for deferred tax because of timing differences between profits as computed for taxation purposes and profits 
as stated in the accounts, on an undiscounted basis. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply  
in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only recognised if recovery is considered more likely than  
not on the basis of all available evidence. 
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss and are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
  
Freehold property 2%
Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3%
Notes to the Company Accounts
152 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
C2 Result for the year 
C3 Fixed assets – tangible assets 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 153 
As permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Profit and Loss Account of Halma plc is not presented as part of 
these accounts. The Company has reported a profit after taxation for the financial year of £95,414,000 (2014: £99,346,000). 
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £162,000 (2014: £159,000). 
Total employee costs (including Directors) were: 
 
Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out on pages 81 to 90 within the Remuneration Report and form part of these financial 
statements. 
 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Wages and salaries 6,539 5,329
Social security costs 615 535
Pension costs 423 499
 7,577 6,363
 
2015
 Number 
2014 
Number 
Number of employees (all in the UK) 49 43
 
Freehold 
properties  
£000 
Plant 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£000 
Total 
£000 
Cost  
At 29 March 2014 3,043 2,379 5,422
Additions at cost – 392 392
Disposals – (139) (139)
At 28 March 2015 3,043 2,632 5,675
Accumulated depreciation  
At 29 March 2014 433 1,679 2,112
Charge for the year 47 276 323
Disposals – (108) (108)
At 28 March 2015 480 1,847 2,327
Carrying amounts  
At 28 March 2015 2,563 785 3,348
At 29 March 2014 2,610 700 3,310
153 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  C4 Investments 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
154 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Shares in Group companies 
The increase of £21,981,000 comprises entirely the 100% acquisition of Advanced Electronics Limited (Advanced).  
The increase of £5,173,000 in the prior year related to the acquisition of Talentum Developments Limited (£3,564,000), an increase 
in investment in an existing subsidiary (£1,946,000) and £337,000 reduction in investment following the finalisation of the acquisition 
accounting for ASL Holdings Limited (ASL). 
Details of principal subsidiary companies are set out below. Halma plc owns 100% of the ordinary share capital of all its subsidiaries 
(directly, or indirectly through its intermediate holding companies). 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only 
in relation to subsidiary undertakings the results or financial position of which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the 
financial statements. 
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the next annual return to be filed at Companies House 
following the approval of these accounts. 
Supplementary information relating to Halma’s operations is provided on pages 160 to 163. 
  
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At cost less amounts written off at beginning of year 142,005 136,832
Increase in investments 21,981 5,173
At cost less amounts written off at end of year 163,986 142,005
Name of company 
Country of 
incorporation Name of company 
Country of 
incorporation 
Bureau D’Electronique Appliquee S.A. (BEA) Belgium Smith Flow Control Limited UK 
Rudolf Riester GmbH Germany Texecom Limited UK 
Medicel AG Switzerland Accutome, Inc. USA 
Advanced Electronics Limited UK Diba Industries, Inc. USA 
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited UK Labsphere, Inc. USA 
Avire Limited UK MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. USA 
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited UK Ocean Optics, Inc. USA 
Elfab Limited UK Oseco Inc. USA 
Fire Fighting Enterprises Limited UK Perma Pure LLC USA 
Fortress Interlocks Limited UK Rohrback Cosasco Systems, Inc USA 
HWM-Water Limited UK SunTech Medical Inc. USA 
Keeler Limited UK Volk Optical Inc. USA 
Palintest Limited UK  
   
   
   
Notes to the Company Accounts continued
154 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
C5 Debtors 
C6 Borrowings 
C7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 155 
Derivative financial instruments comprise Swiss Franc swap contracts. The change in the fair value of the derivative financial assets 
outstanding at the year end, and classified as fair value through profit and loss, was £129,000 gain. 
The Group’s principal source of long-term funding is its unsecured five-year £360m revolving credit facility, which expires in  
November 2018 and is therefore classified as expiring within two to five years (2014: within two to five years). At 28 March 2015 
£220,238,000 (2014: £255,109,000) remained committed and undrawn. 
The bank overdrafts, which are unsecured, at 28 March 2015 and 29 March 2014 were drawn on uncommitted facilities which all 
expire within one year, and were held pursuant to a Group pooling arrangement which offsets them against credit balances in 
subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company is part of an arrangement between UK subsidiaries whereby overdraft facilities of £17,990,000 (2014: £22,122,000)  
are cross-guaranteed. Of these facilities £64,000 (2014: £nil) was drawn. 
The loan notes issued in respect of the Advanced acquisition attract interest at 1% and are convertible into cash at par on each 
anniversary of the acquisition date until 14 May 2019. They are classified as falling due within one to two years. 
The £3,356,000 contingent consideration payable relates to the Advanced acquisition made during the year. The estimated value of 
the payment represents the Directors’ best estimate based on actual results for the period to March 2015 and is payable in June 
2015. In the prior year the balance represented amounts due in respect of the Talentum and ASL acquisitions. 
 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due from Group companies 38,029 36,792
Derivative financial instruments 129 –
Other debtors – 2
Prepayments and accrued income 6,530 6,261
Deferred tax asset (note C9) 860 685
 45,548 43,740
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Amounts due from Group companies 415,225 344,307
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Falling due within one year: 
Overdrafts 10,675 10,998
Falling due after more than one year:
Loan notes 657 –
Unsecured bank loans 139,762 104,891
 140,419 104,891
Total borrowings 151,094 115,889
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Trade creditors 1,456 1,379
Amounts owing to Group companies 43,999 37,011
Other taxation and social security 1,100 1,145
Other creditors 515 1,422
Accruals and deferred income 2,890 1,216
Provision for contingent and deferred consideration 3,356 1,466
 53,316 43,639
155 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  C8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
C9 Deferred tax 
C10 Share capital 
 
Notes to the Company Accounts continued 
156 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
The £197,000 provision for contingent consideration represents the Directors’ best estimate of the second tranche of payment due in 
respect of the ASL acquisition. In the prior year the payment was estimated at £2,284,000 and was shown as payable within one to 
two years. 
Deferred tax comprises short-term timing differences. 
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 28 March 2015 was 379,645,332 (2014: 379,018,522), including treasury shares of 
1,371,785 (2014: 1,278,148). Changes during the year in the issued ordinary share capital were as follows: 
The total consideration received in cash in respect of share options exercised amounted to £893,000 (2014: £194,000).  
Details of share options in issue on the Company’s share capital and share-based payments are included in note 23 to the 
Group accounts. 
 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Amounts owing to Group companies 11,112 10,303
Provision for contingent consideration 197 2,284
Other creditors 444 353
 11,753 12,940
These liabilities fall due as follows:  
Within one to two years 641 2,637
Within two to five years – –
After more than five years 11,112 10,303
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Movement in deferred tax asset:  
At beginning of year 685 268
Credit to profit and loss account 175 417
At end of year (note C5) 860 685
 Issued and fully paid 
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
Ordinary shares of 10p each 37,965 37,902
 
Issued and 
fully paid 
2015 
£000 
At 29 March 2014  37,902
Share options exercised 63
At 28 March 2015 37,965
Notes to the Company Accounts continued
156 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
C11 Reserves 
C12 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 157 
The Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of the Company’s own shares. The Other reserves 
represent the provision being established in respect of the value of equity-settled share option plans and performance share plan 
awards made by the Company. Treasury shares are the Company’s own shares purchased and are held to fulfil its obligations  
under the performance share plan. 
 
 
 Non-distributable Distributable 
 
Share 
premium 
account 
£000 
Treasury 
shares 
£000 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£000 
Other 
reserves 
£000 
Total profit 
and loss 
account
£000 
At 29 March 2014 22,778 (7,054) 185 (7,647) 313,864
Profit for the financial year – – – – 95,414
Dividends paid – – – – (43,399)
Issue of shares 830 – – – –
Net movement in treasury shares – (1,396) – – –
Movement in other reserves – – – (2,765) –
At 28 March 2015 23,608 (8,450) 185 (10,412) 365,879
 
2015 
£000 
2014 
£000 
At beginning of year 360,028 305,637
Profit for the financial year 95,414 99,346
Dividends paid (43,399) (40,485)
Issue of shares 893 194
Net movement in treasury shares (1,396) (2,520)
Movement in other reserves (2,765) (2,144)
At end of year 408,775 360,028
157 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Summary 2006 to 2015 
158 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
All years are presented under IFRS. 
 
Notes: 
1. Continuing and discontinued operations. 
2. Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition transaction costs, release of fair value adjustments to inventory, and adjustments 
to contingent consideration (collectively ‘acquisition items’). IFRS figures include results of discontinued operations up to the date of their sales or closure but exclude 
material discontinued and continuing profits on sales or closures of operations. In 2013/14 only, the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit 
pension plans have also been removed. 
3.  Return on Sales is defined as profit before taxation, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets; acquisition items (from 2010/11); profit or loss on disposal of 
operations; and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the defined benefit pension plans net of associated costs (2013/14 only) expressed as a percentage 
of revenue. 
4. The ROCE and ROTIC measures have been restated as a percentage of the average of the current year’s and prior year’s Capital Employed and Total Invested 
Capital respectively. Using an average as the denominator is considered to be more representative. See note 3 to the Report and Accounts for the definitions of 
ROCE and ROTIC. 
5. IAS 19 (as revised in June 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ was adopted by the Group in 2013/14. To aid comparison, and as required by IAS 19 (revised), the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and affected notes for 2012/13 were restated as if IAS 19 (revised) had always applied during that year. Results prior to 2012/13 
have not been restated.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
2005/06 
£000 
 
 
2006/07 
£000 
2007/08 
£000 
Revenue (note 1) 337,348 354,606 397,955
Overseas sales (note 1) 249,055 258,050 288,701
Profit before taxation, and adjustments (note 2) 59,641 66,091 73,215
Net tangible assets/capital employed 105,396 113,048 134,320
Borrowings (excluding overdrafts) 32,308 29,762 72,393
Cash and cash equivalents (net of overdrafts) 35,826 22,051 28,118
Employees (note 1) 3,187 3,326 3,683
Earnings per ordinary share (note 1) 11.08p 11.86p 13.49p
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (note 2)  11.27p 12.42p 13.86p
Year-on-year increase in adjusted earnings per ordinary share 19.3% 10.9% 11.5%
Return on Sales (notes 1 and 3) 17.7% 18.6% 18.4%
Return on Capital Employed (restated – note 4)  57.2% 62.2% 60.6%
Return on Total Invested Capital (restated – note 4) 13.5% 14.3% 14.8%
Year-on-year increase in dividends per ordinary share (paid and proposed) 5% 5% 5%
Ordinary share price at financial year end  188p 220p 192p
Market capitalisation at financial year end £693.4m £821.8m £717.7m
Summary 2006 to 2015
158 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
 
  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 159 
 
 
 
2008/09 
£000 
2009/10 
£000 
2010/11 
£000 
2011/12 
£000 
2012/13 
£000 
(Restated) 
(note 5) 
2012/13 
£000 
2013/14 
£000 
2014/15 
£000 
455,928 459,118 518,428 579,883 619,210 619,210 676,506 726,134
351,522 360,779 412,297 454,270 503,635 503,635 548,629 587,822
79,087 86,214 104,551 120,465 130,661 128,543 140,249 153,618
173,128 145,519 146,964 163,283 188,701 188,701 189,707 219,148
86,173 21,924 79,688 64,014 160,013 160,013 107,622 140,419
34,987 31,006 42,610 45,305 49,723 49,723 33,126 39,525
4,018 3,689 3,875 4,347 4,716 4,716 4,999 5,328
14.07p 16.10p 19.23p 23.01p 25.22p 24.79p 28.14p 27.49p
15.30p 16.89p 20.49p 24.46p 26.22p 25.79p 28.47p 31.17p
10.4% 10.4% 21.3% 19.4% 7.2% 5.4% 10.4% 9.5%
17.3% 18.8% 20.2% 20.8% 21.1% 20.8% 20.7% 21.2%
53.7% 55.9% 72.2% 78.6% 76.4% 75.8% 76.6% 77.6%
14.2% 14.0% 16.0% 17.6% 16.9% 16.6% 16.7% 16.3%
5% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7% 7%
156p 259p 355p 381p 518p 518p 579p 701p
£583.7m £978.1m £1,342.7m £1,440.8m £1,962.6m £1,962.6m £2,192.6m £2,661.3m
159 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Halma Directory
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Process Safety
Castell Safety International Limited Safety systems for controlling hazardous industrial processes Kingsbury, London (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+44 (0)20 8200 1200 uksales@castell.com www.castell.com
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited Gas detection instruments for personnel and plant safety Abingdon, Oxfordshire (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)1235 557700 sales@crowcon.com www.crowcon.com
Elfab Limited Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant North Shields, Tyne & Wear +44 (0)191 293 1234 sales@elfab.com www.elfab.com
Fortress Interlocks Limited Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Wolverhampton, West Midlands  
(Head Office) 
Melbourne, Australia
+44 (0)1902 349000 sales@fortressinterlocks.com www.fortressinterlocks.com
Kirk Key Interlock Company, LLC. Key interlocks and interlocking systems for the protection of personnel and equipment Massillon, Ohio + 1 (1)800 438 2442 sales@kirkkey.com www.kirkkey.com
Netherlocks Safety Systems B.V. Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Alphen aan den Rijn, The Netherlands +31 (0)172 471 339 sales@netherlocks.com www.netherlocks.com
Oseco Inc. Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant Broken Arrow, Oklahoma + 1 (1)918 258 5626 info@oseco.com www.oseco.com
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. Design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems into 
diverse industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, chemical and utilities
Santa Fe Springs, California 
Houston, Texas 
Aberdeen, Scotland 
Sharjah, UAE 
Singapore
+ 1 (1)562 949 0123 sales@cosasco.com www.cosasco.com
SERV Trayvou Interverrouillage S.A.S. Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Paris, France (Head Office) 
Tunis, Tunisia
+33 (0)1 48 18 15 15 sales@servtrayvou.com www.servtrayvou.com
Smith Flow Control Limited Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Witham, Essex +44 (0)1376 517901 sales@smithflowcontrol.com www.smithflowcontrol.com
Infrastructure Safety
Advanced Electronics Limited Networked fire detectors and control systems Cramlington, Northumberland +44 (0)1670 7071 1 1 sales@advancedco.com www.advancedco.com
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited Smoke and heat detectors, sounders, beacons and interfaces Havant, Hampshire (Head Office) 
Auburn Hills, Michigan 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)2392 492412 enquiries@apollo-fire.com www.apollo-fire.co.uk
Avire Limited Infrared safety systems for elevator doors and elevator emergency communications Maidenhead, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Ceské Budejovice, Czech Republic 
Hauppauge, New York 
Shanghai, China 
Singapore
+44 (0)1628 540100 sales.uk@avire-global.com www.avire-global.com
Bureau D’Electronique Appliquée S.A. (BEA) Sensors for automatic doors Liège, Belgium (Head Office) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Beijing, China
+32 (0)4 361 65 65 info@bea.be www.bea.be
FFE Limited Flame detectors, beam smoke detectors and specialist fire extinguishing systems Hitchin, Hertfordshire +44 (0)1462 4447 40 sales@ffeuk.com www.ffeuk.com
Texecom Limited Security sensors and signalling products Haslingden, Lancashire +44 (0)1706 220460 sales@texe.com www.texe.com
Medical
Accudynamics, LLC. Mechanical and fluidic components primarily used in medical, life science and scientific 
instruments
Lakeville, Massachusetts + 1 (1)508 946 4545 info@accudynamics.com www.accudynamics.com
Accutome, Inc. Ophthalmic diagnostic and surgical equipment, as well as a broad line of pharmaceutical 
products
Malvern, Pennsylvania (Head Office) 
Cuijk, The Netherlands
+ 1 (1)610 889 0200 info@accutome.com www.accutome.com
Baoding Longer Precision Pump Co., Ltd. Peristaltic, syringe, piston and gear pumps for use in laboratory, industrial and medical 
applications for both end-user and OEM customers
Baoding, Hebei, China +86 312 31 10087 longer@longerpump.com www.longerpump.com
Bio-Chem Fluidics Inc. Miniature valves, micro pumps and fluid components for medical, life science and scientific 
instruments
Boonton, New Jersey + 1 (1)973 263 3001 sales.us@biochemfluidics.com www.biochemfluidics.com
Diba Industries, Inc. Specialised components and complete fluid transfer subassemblies for medical, life science 
and scientific instruments
Danbury, Connecticut (Head Office) 
Cambridge, UK
+ 1 (1)203 7 44 0773 salesdept@dibaind.com www.dibaind.com
Keeler Limited Ophthalmic instruments for diagnostic assessment of eye conditions Windsor, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Broomall, Pennsylvania
+44 (0)1753 857177 info@keeler.co.uk www.keeler.co.uk
Medicel AG Instruments for ophthalmic surgery Wolfhalden, Switzerland +41 71 727 1050 info@medicel.com www.medicel.com
160 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
Process Safety
Castell Safety International Limited Safety systems for controlling hazardous industrial processes Kingsbury, London (Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+44 (0)20 8200 1200 uksales@castell.com www.castell.com
Crowcon Detection Instruments Limited Gas detection instruments for personnel and plant safety Abingdon, Oxfordshire (Head Office) 
Beijing, China 
Erlanger, Kentucky
+44 (0)1235 557700 sales@crowcon.com www.crowcon.com
Elfab Limited Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant North Shields, Tyne & Wear +44 (0)191 293 1234 sales@elfab.com www.elfab.com
Fortress Interlocks Limited Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Wolverhampton, West Midlands  
(Head Office) 
Melbourne, Australia
+44 (0)1902 349000 sales@fortressinterlocks.com www.fortressinterlocks.com
Kirk Key Interlock Company, LLC. Key interlocks and interlocking systems for the protection of personnel and equipment Massillon, Ohio + 1 (1)800 438 2442 sales@kirkkey.com www.kirkkey.com
Netherlocks Safety Systems B.V. Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Alphen aan den Rijn, The Netherlands +31 (0)172 471 339 sales@netherlocks.com www.netherlocks.com
Oseco Inc. Pressure sensitive relief devices to protect process plant Broken Arrow, Oklahoma + 1 (1)918 258 5626 info@oseco.com www.oseco.com
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. Design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems into 
diverse industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, chemical and utilities
Santa Fe Springs, California 
Houston, Texas 
Aberdeen, Scotland 
Sharjah, UAE 
Singapore
+ 1 (1)562 949 0123 sales@cosasco.com www.cosasco.com
SERV Trayvou Interverrouillage S.A.S. Safety systems for controlling access to dangerous machines Paris, France (Head Office) 
Tunis, Tunisia
+33 (0)1 48 18 15 15 sales@servtrayvou.com www.servtrayvou.com
Smith Flow Control Limited Process safety systems for petrochemical and industrial applications Witham, Essex +44 (0)1376 517901 sales@smithflowcontrol.com www.smithflowcontrol.com
Infrastructure Safety
Advanced Electronics Limited Networked fire detectors and control systems Cramlington, Northumberland +44 (0)1670 7071 1 1 sales@advancedco.com www.advancedco.com
Apollo Fire Detectors Limited Smoke and heat detectors, sounders, beacons and interfaces Havant, Hampshire (Head Office) 
Auburn Hills, Michigan 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)2392 492412 enquiries@apollo-fire.com www.apollo-fire.co.uk
Avire Limited Infrared safety systems for elevator doors and elevator emergency communications Maidenhead, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Ceské Budejovice, Czech Republic 
Hauppauge, New York 
Shanghai, China 
Singapore
+44 (0)1628 540100 sales.uk@avire-global.com www.avire-global.com
Bureau D’Electronique Appliquée S.A. (BEA) Sensors for automatic doors Liège, Belgium (Head Office) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Beijing, China
+32 (0)4 361 65 65 info@bea.be www.bea.be
FFE Limited Flame detectors, beam smoke detectors and specialist fire extinguishing systems Hitchin, Hertfordshire +44 (0)1462 4447 40 sales@ffeuk.com www.ffeuk.com
Texecom Limited Security sensors and signalling products Haslingden, Lancashire +44 (0)1706 220460 sales@texe.com www.texe.com
Medical
Accudynamics, LLC. Mechanical and fluidic components primarily used in medical, life science and scientific 
instruments
Lakeville, Massachusetts + 1 (1)508 946 4545 info@accudynamics.com www.accudynamics.com
Accutome, Inc. Ophthalmic diagnostic and surgical equipment, as well as a broad line of pharmaceutical 
products
Malvern, Pennsylvania (Head Office) 
Cuijk, The Netherlands
+ 1 (1)610 889 0200 info@accutome.com www.accutome.com
Baoding Longer Precision Pump Co., Ltd. Peristaltic, syringe, piston and gear pumps for use in laboratory, industrial and medical 
applications for both end-user and OEM customers
Baoding, Hebei, China +86 312 31 10087 longer@longerpump.com www.longerpump.com
Bio-Chem Fluidics Inc. Miniature valves, micro pumps and fluid components for medical, life science and scientific 
instruments
Boonton, New Jersey + 1 (1)973 263 3001 sales.us@biochemfluidics.com www.biochemfluidics.com
Diba Industries, Inc. Specialised components and complete fluid transfer subassemblies for medical, life science 
and scientific instruments
Danbury, Connecticut (Head Office) 
Cambridge, UK
+ 1 (1)203 7 44 0773 salesdept@dibaind.com www.dibaind.com
Keeler Limited Ophthalmic instruments for diagnostic assessment of eye conditions Windsor, Berkshire (Head Office) 
Broomall, Pennsylvania
+44 (0)1753 857177 info@keeler.co.uk www.keeler.co.uk
Medicel AG Instruments for ophthalmic surgery Wolfhalden, Switzerland +41 71 727 1050 info@medicel.com www.medicel.com
161 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Halma Directory continued
Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. Ophthalmic surgical products, focusing on single-use devices used in cataract surgery Redmond, Washington + 1 (1)425 556 0544 Info@microsurgical.com www.microsurgical.com
Rudolf Riester GmbH Diagnostic medical devices for ophthalmology, blood pressure measurement and ear, nose 
and throat diagnostics
Jungingen, Germany +49 (0)7 4 77 92 700 info@riester.de www.riester.de
SunTech Medical, Inc. Clinical grade non-invasive blood pressure monitoring products and technologies Morrisville, North Carolina (Head Office) 
Shenzhen, China
+ 1 (1)919 654 2300 sales@suntechmed.com www.suntechmed.com
Volk Optical, Inc. Ophthalmic equipment and lenses as aids to diagnosis and surgery Mentor, Ohio + 1 (1)440 942 6161 volk@volk.com www.volk.com
Environmental & Analysis
Alicat Scientific, Inc. Mass flow meters, mass flow controllers and pressure controllers for high-precision fluid flow 
measurement
Tucson, Arizona 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+ 1 (1)520 290 6060 info@alicat.com www.alicat.com
Avo Photonics, Inc. Opto-electronic solutions and product design, development and manufacturing of exclusive, 
confidential, private label applications
Horsham, Pennsylvania + 1 (1)215 441 0107 sales@avophotonics.com www.avophotonics.com
Berson Milieutechniek B.V. Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection systems for municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment 
plants
Nuenen, The Netherlands +31 (0)40 290 7777 info@bersonuv.com www.bersonuv.com
Fiberguide Industries, Inc. Large core specialty optical fibre, high temperature metalised fibres for optical power delivery 
and optical sensing applications
Stirling, New Jersey 
Caldwell, Idaho 
Shanghai, China
+ 1 (1) 908 647 6601 info@fiberguide.com www.fiberguide.com
Hanovia Limited Ultraviolet (UV) light water treatment equipment used in the manufacture of food, beverages 
and pharmaceuticals, as well as products for aquaculture, pool and leisure and for marine 
ballast water treatment
Slough, Berkshire 
Shanghai, China 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)1753 515300 sales@hanovia.com www.hanovia.com
HWM-Water Limited Multi-utility M2M solutions provider, including data recording and management for water 
networks, electricity, solar PV and energy conservation
Cwmbran, South Wales (Head Office) 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Pitsford, Northampton
+44 (0)1633 489 479 sales@hwm-water.com www.hwm-water.com
Hydreka S.A.S. Equipment and software to monitor and analyse the entire clean and dirty water cycle and for 
leak detection in municipal and large scale industrial applications
Lyon, France +33 (0)4 72 53 1 1 53 hydreka@hydreka.fr www.hydreka.com
Labsphere, Inc. Precision radiometric and photometric systems and software for light testing, calibration and 
measurement
North Sutton, New Hampshire  
(Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+ 1 (1)603 927 4266 labsphere@labsphere.com www.labsphere.com
Ocean Optics, Inc. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical 
analysis, process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Dunedin, Florida (Head Office) 
Winter Park, Florida 
Ostfildern, Germany 
Duiven, The Netherlands 
Oxford, UK
+ 1 (1)727 733 2447 info@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.com
Palintest Limited Water and environmental analysis equipment to test drinking water, wastewater and process 
water, water in pools and spas, as well as farming and irrigation applications
Gateshead, Tyne & Wear 
Beijing, China 
Sydney, Australia
+44 (0)191 491 0808 sales@palintest.com www.palintest.com
Perma Pure LLC High precision moisture management products including dryers, humidifiers, and complete 
sample conditioning systems for emissions monitoring, process analysis, and medical 
applications
Toms River, New Jersey 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+ 1 (1)732 244 0010 info@permapure.com www.permapure.com
Pixelteq, Inc. Multispectral sensing and imaging solutions for aerospace, biomedical, semiconductor, 
industrial and scientific applications
Largo, Florida (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+ 1 (1)727 545 07 41 info@pixelteq.com www.pixelteq.com
Sensorex Corporation Electrochemical sensors for water analysis applications in the process industry and 
laboratory markets
Garden Grove, California + 1 (1)714 895 4344 email@sensorex.com www.sensorex.com
Weihai Guangxue Yiqi (Shanghai), Ltd. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical 
analysis, process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Shanghai, China 
Beijing, China
+86 21 6295 6600 asiasales@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.cn
Group
Halma Holdings Inc. Halma North American Head Office Cincinnati, Ohio + 1 (1)513 772 5501 halmaholdings@halmaholdings.com www.halma.com
Halma International Limited Representative 
Offices
Halma China hubs in Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou and Shenyang China +86 21 6016 7666 halmachina@halma.com www.halma.cn
Halma India Pvt Ltd Halma India hub Mumbai, India +91 (22)6708 0400 halmaindia@halma.com www.halma.com
162 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal operating companies by sector Main products Principal locations Telephone E-mail Website
MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. Ophthalmic surgical products, focusing on single-use devices used in cataract surgery Redmond, Washington + 1 (1)425 556 0544 Info@microsurgical.com www.microsurgical.com
Rudolf Riester GmbH Diagnostic medical devices for ophthalmology, blood pressure measurement and ear, nose 
and throat diagnostics
Jungingen, Germany +49 (0)7 4 77 92 700 info@riester.de www.riester.de
SunTech Medical, Inc. Clinical grade non-invasive blood pressure monitoring products and technologies Morrisville, North Carolina (Head Office) 
Shenzhen, China
+ 1 (1)919 654 2300 sales@suntechmed.com www.suntechmed.com
Volk Optical, Inc. Ophthalmic equipment and lenses as aids to diagnosis and surgery Mentor, Ohio + 1 (1)440 942 6161 volk@volk.com www.volk.com
Environmental & Analysis
Alicat Scientific, Inc. Mass flow meters, mass flow controllers and pressure controllers for high-precision fluid flow 
measurement
Tucson, Arizona 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+ 1 (1)520 290 6060 info@alicat.com www.alicat.com
Avo Photonics, Inc. Opto-electronic solutions and product design, development and manufacturing of exclusive, 
confidential, private label applications
Horsham, Pennsylvania + 1 (1)215 441 0107 sales@avophotonics.com www.avophotonics.com
Berson Milieutechniek B.V. Ultraviolet (UV) disinfection systems for municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment 
plants
Nuenen, The Netherlands +31 (0)40 290 7777 info@bersonuv.com www.bersonuv.com
Fiberguide Industries, Inc. Large core specialty optical fibre, high temperature metalised fibres for optical power delivery 
and optical sensing applications
Stirling, New Jersey 
Caldwell, Idaho 
Shanghai, China
+ 1 (1) 908 647 6601 info@fiberguide.com www.fiberguide.com
Hanovia Limited Ultraviolet (UV) light water treatment equipment used in the manufacture of food, beverages 
and pharmaceuticals, as well as products for aquaculture, pool and leisure and for marine 
ballast water treatment
Slough, Berkshire 
Shanghai, China 
Beijing, China
+44 (0)1753 515300 sales@hanovia.com www.hanovia.com
HWM-Water Limited Multi-utility M2M solutions provider, including data recording and management for water 
networks, electricity, solar PV and energy conservation
Cwmbran, South Wales (Head Office) 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Pitsford, Northampton
+44 (0)1633 489 479 sales@hwm-water.com www.hwm-water.com
Hydreka S.A.S. Equipment and software to monitor and analyse the entire clean and dirty water cycle and for 
leak detection in municipal and large scale industrial applications
Lyon, France +33 (0)4 72 53 1 1 53 hydreka@hydreka.fr www.hydreka.com
Labsphere, Inc. Precision radiometric and photometric systems and software for light testing, calibration and 
measurement
North Sutton, New Hampshire  
(Head Office) 
Shanghai, China
+ 1 (1)603 927 4266 labsphere@labsphere.com www.labsphere.com
Ocean Optics, Inc. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical 
analysis, process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Dunedin, Florida (Head Office) 
Winter Park, Florida 
Ostfildern, Germany 
Duiven, The Netherlands 
Oxford, UK
+ 1 (1)727 733 2447 info@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.com
Palintest Limited Water and environmental analysis equipment to test drinking water, wastewater and process 
water, water in pools and spas, as well as farming and irrigation applications
Gateshead, Tyne & Wear 
Beijing, China 
Sydney, Australia
+44 (0)191 491 0808 sales@palintest.com www.palintest.com
Perma Pure LLC High precision moisture management products including dryers, humidifiers, and complete 
sample conditioning systems for emissions monitoring, process analysis, and medical 
applications
Toms River, New Jersey 
Shanghai, China 
Mumbai, India
+ 1 (1)732 244 0010 info@permapure.com www.permapure.com
Pixelteq, Inc. Multispectral sensing and imaging solutions for aerospace, biomedical, semiconductor, 
industrial and scientific applications
Largo, Florida (Head Office) 
Beijing, China
+ 1 (1)727 545 07 41 info@pixelteq.com www.pixelteq.com
Sensorex Corporation Electrochemical sensors for water analysis applications in the process industry and 
laboratory markets
Garden Grove, California + 1 (1)714 895 4344 email@sensorex.com www.sensorex.com
Weihai Guangxue Yiqi (Shanghai), Ltd. Portable spectrometers and spectral sensors for laboratory and field applications in chemical 
analysis, process control, environmental monitoring, life sciences and medical diagnostics
Shanghai, China 
Beijing, China
+86 21 6295 6600 asiasales@oceanoptics.com www.oceanoptics.cn
Group
Halma Holdings Inc. Halma North American Head Office Cincinnati, Ohio + 1 (1)513 772 5501 halmaholdings@halmaholdings.com www.halma.com
Halma International Limited Representative 
Offices
Halma China hubs in Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou and Shenyang China +86 21 6016 7666 halmachina@halma.com www.halma.cn
Halma India Pvt Ltd Halma India hub Mumbai, India +91 (22)6708 0400 halmaindia@halma.com www.halma.com
163 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Shareholder Information and Advisers
Financial calendar
2014/15 Half year results 18 November 2014
2014/15 Interim dividend paid 4 February 2015
Trading update 10 February 2015
2014/15 Year end 28 March 2015
2014/15 Final results 1 1 June 2015
2014/15 Report and Accounts issued 23 June 2015
Annual General Meeting 23 July 2015
2014/15 Final dividend payable 19 August 2015
2015/16 Half year end 3 October 2015
2015/16 Half year results 17 November 2015
2015/16 Interim dividend payable February 2016
2015/16 Year end 2 April 2016
2015/16 Final results June 2016
Analysis of shareholders at 13 May 2015
 Shareholders
 (number) %
Shares
(number) %
Number of shares held
1 – 5,000 4,964 78.7 6,892,932 1.8
5,001 – 25,000 821 13.0 8,695,850 2.3
25,001 – 100,000 262 4.1 13,571,194 3.6
100,001 – 750,000 182 2.9 56,886,512 15.0
750,001 and over 82 1.3 293,598,844 77.3
6,311 100.0 379,645,332 100.0
Share price  
London Stock Exchange, pence per 10p share 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Highest 726 623 531 430 367 
Lowest 559 471 373 306 240 
Dividends  
Pence per 10p share 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Interim 4.65 4.35 4.06 3.79 3.54
Final 7.31* 6.82 6.37 5.95 5.56
Total 11.96 11.17 10.43 9.74 9.10 
* Proposed.
Registered office
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE
Tel: +44 (0)1494 721 1 1 1 
halma@halma.com 
Website: www.halma.com
Registered in England and Wales, No 40932
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Tel: +44 (0)870 707 1046 
Fax: +44 (0)870 703 6101  
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk
164 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Investor information
Visit our website, www.halma.com, for investor information and Company news. In addition to accessing financial data, you can view and 
download Annual and Half Year Reports, analyst presentations, find contact details for Halma senior executives and subsidiary companies 
and access links to Halma subsidiary websites. You can also download our iPad app or subscribe to an e-mail news alert service to 
automatically receive an e-mail when significant announcements are made.
Shareholding information
Please contact our Registrar, Computershare, directly for all enquiries about your shareholding. Visit their Investor Centre website  
www.investorcentre.co.uk for online information about your shareholding (you will need your shareholder reference number which  
can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher), or telephone the Registrar direct using the dedicated telephone 
number for Halma shareholders: +44 (0) 870 707 1046.
Dividend mandate
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account by completing a bank mandate form. 
The advantages to using this service are: the payment is more secure than sending a cheque through the post; it avoids the inconvenience of 
paying in a cheque and there is no risk of lost, stolen or out-of-date cheques. A mandate form can be obtained from Computershare or you 
will find one on the reverse of the tax voucher of your last dividend payment.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan (‘DRIP’) which offers shareholders the option to elect to have their cash dividends 
reinvested in Halma ordinary shares purchased in the market. You can register for the DRIP online by visiting Computershare’s Investor 
Centre website (as above) or by requesting an application form direct from Computershare. Shareholders who wish to elect for the DRIP  
for the forthcoming final dividend, but have not already done so, should return a DRIP application form to Computershare no later than  
29 July 2015.
American Depositary Receipts
The Halma plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over The Counter market (OTC) under the symbol HLMLY .  
One ADR represents three Halma plc ordinary shares. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary. If you should have any queries, 
please contact:
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., PO Box 64504, St Paul, MN 55164-0854, USA. E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com. Telephone number  
for general queries: (800) 990 1 135. Telephone number from outside the USA: + 1 651 453 2128.
Electronic communications
All shareholder communications, including the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, are made available to shareholders on the Halma 
website and you may opt to receive e-mail notification that documents and information are available to view and download rather than to 
receive paper copies through the post. Using electronic communications helps us to limit the amount of paper we use and assists us in 
reducing our costs. If you would like to sign up for this service, visit Computershare’s Investor Centre website. You may change the way  
you receive communications at any time by contacting Computershare.
Share dealing facilities
A telephone dealing service has been arranged with Stocktrade which provides a simple way for buying or selling Halma shares. Basic 
commission is 0.5%, subject to a minimum commission of £25.00. For further information please call 0131 240 0400 and quote reference 
‘Halma Dial and Deal Service’.
Annual General Meeting
The 121st Annual General Meeting of Halma plc will be held in the Ballroom at The Berkeley Hotel, Wilton Place, London SW1X 7RL  
on Thursday 23 July 2015 at 10.30 am. 
Investor relations contacts
Rachel Hirst/Andrew Jaques 
MHP Communications  
60 Great Portland Street 
London W1W 7RT
Tel: +44 (0)20 3128 8100 
Fax: +44 (0)20 3128 8171 
halma@mhpc.com
Andrew Williams 
Halma plc 
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE 
Tel: +44 (0)1494 721 1 1 1 
Fax: +44 (0)1494 728032 
investor.relations@halma.com
 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP 
Abbots House 
Abbey Street 
Reading RG1 3BD
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London EC2M 4RB
Financial advisers
Lazard & Co., Limited 
50 Stratton Street 
London W1J 8LL
Brokers
Credit Suisse Securities  
(Europe) Limited 
One Cabot Square 
London E14 4QJ
Investec Investment Banking  
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors 
CMS Cameron McKenna LLP  
Cannon Place 
78 Cannon Street 
London EC4N 6AF
 
Design, consultancy and production by Luminous 
www.luminous.co.uk
Printed by Halstan.co.uk
165 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Halma plc 
Misbourne Court 
Rectory Way 
Amersham 
Bucks HP7 0DE
Tel +44(0)1494 721 1 1 1
Fax +44(0)1494 728032
Web www.halma.com
Stay up-to-date 
The latest Halma news, share price, webcasts, 
financial documents and more can be found on the 
Halma website at www.halma.com. You can download 
our free investor relations iPad app and follow Halma on 
the move at http://goo.gl/4W91y
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
