 Harvey Nash Group plc
Annual Report 2015 2 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC ABOUT HARVEY NASH
Overview
2 About Harvey Nash
3 Highlights
4 Mission
6 Meet the Group Board and Executive Council
7 Directors, Secretary and Advisers
9 Chairman’s Statement
 Strategic Report
12 Strategy
13 Model
15 CEO Review
18 Key Performance Indicators
19 FD Review
21 Corporate Responsibility
About Harvey Nash
Harvey Nash is a global recruitment business. Our unique 
portfolio of services, from executive search, professional 
recruitment to offshore solutions, enables us to engage with 
clients at every stage of the business cycle. Our relationship-
based model underpins the delivery of resilient financial 
results and supports returns to shareholders.
The Group partners with many of the world’s leading 
organisations to source, recruit and manage the highly skilled 
talent they need to succeed in an increasingly competitive 
and technology-driven world.
With 8,000 professionals in 47 offices across the USA, Europe, 
Asia and Australasia, the Group has the reach and resources of 
a global organisation, while fostering a culture of innovation 
and autonomy that empowers its employees and associates to 
deliver client-centric solutions.
Governance & Accounts
24 Corporate Governance
28 Directors’ Report
30 Remuneration Report
48 Audit Committee Report
51 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
52 Independent Auditors’ Report
57 Consolidated Income Statement
58 Consolidated Balance Sheet
59 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
85 Financial Statements for the Parent Company under UK GAAP HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC HIGHLIGHTS / 3
4.8%
Operating Profit
 (3)
31 January 2015: £10.2m
31 January 2014: £9.7m
10.0%
Dividends
31 January 2015: 3.5p
31 January 2014: 3.2p
5.3%
Gross Profit
(2)
31 January 2015: £93.3m
31 January 2014: £88.6m
 
4.0%
Revenue
 (2)
31 January 2015: £725.3m
31 January 2014: £697.3m
37 .6%
Operating Cash
31 January 2015: £7.5m
31 January 2014: £11.8m
Highlights
(1) Before non-recurring items
(2) On a constant currency basis 
(3) On a constant currency basis and 
before non-recurring items 
Gross Profit
Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share
(1)
 
Dividend Per Share 
Net Cash Generated From Operating Activities 
£60.4m
£68.6m
£78.5m
£83.0m
£88.6m
£89.5m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
1.0p
5.9p
8.0p
8.3p
8.8p
9.0p
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2.2p
2.4p
2.7p
2.9p
3.2p
3.5p
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
£5.8m
£9.1m
£1.8m
£6.7m
£5.4m
£7.5m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015 4 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC MISSION
Our services
A unique portfolio of services gives us our key competitive advantage.
Executive Search & 
Leadership Services
We work with organisations across 
the world to recruit board members 
and senior executives, on a 
permanent and interim basis. 
We also support our clients’ 
strategic people objectives, 
through board consultancy such as 
assessment and leadership services.
Professional 
Recruitment
Our market-leading technology 
recruitment business helps 
organisations across more than 
30 countries recruit highly skilled 
experts on a permanent and 
contract basis. 
In addition, we provide bespoke 
solutions to assist clients to recruit 
and manage their workforce 
risk, payroll services and hiring 
processes. 
Offshore & 
Solutions
We help organisations to build scale, 
increase flexibility and reduce costs 
through our managed IT services 
and projects, software development 
services and BPO operations in 
Vietnam.
We also assume responsibility 
for mission-critical elements of 
telecommunications R&D.
Michael Page International 2011 Results  |  34
Executive Search & 
Leadership Services
Professional 
Recruitment
Solutions
Mission
We deliver remarkable global talent for the benefit     of our clients. In every possible way. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC MISSION / 5
Our strategic focus 
We are growing our market share by building long-term client relationships and expanding our geographic spread.
Leveraging our portfolio
We will leverage our broad portfolio of services throughout 
our existing network, while broadening our geographical 
presence both organically and through bolt-on acquisitions.
The portfolio of services is designed to fulfil clients’ needs 
at each stage of the business cycle reinforcing our long-
term relationships through constant engagement.
Offshore services
We continue to develop the Group’s global recruitment 
support services centre established in Vietnam and co-
located within the offshore software development business. 
This capability supports the US, European and Asian recruitment 
businesses by augmenting our sourcing and candidate 
research capability therefore increasing the productivity of our 
consultants and increasing our speed to placement. 
Building the brand
Investing in the Group’s market-leading brands through a 
programme of events and thought leadership ensures that we 
continue to build trust in our brands, which is key to attracting 
and retaining clients, candidates and new employees. 
Our business model is based on close client engagement 
supported by relationship building and added-value activities.
Managed solutions
Managed solutions have become the gateway to new client 
relationships, whether it’s the management of existing client 
business operations or providing recruitment outsourcing 
and payroll services. 
Increasingly, more routine elements of the recruitment or 
solutions process are undertaken offshore, reducing the 
cost and increasing efficiency. 
Mission
We deliver remarkable global talent for the benefit     of our clients. In every possible way. 6 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC MEET THE GROUP BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
Meet the Group Board 
Kevin Thomas
Non-Executive 
Director
Julie Baddeley 
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Simon Wassall
European Managing 
Director
Albert Ellis
Chief Executive 
Officer
David Bezem 
Non-Executive 
Director
Richard Ashcroft 
Group Finance 
Director
Ian Davies
Non-Executive 
Director 
Robert J. Miano 
President
Responsible for 
Harvey Nash 
operations in the 
USA.
Udo Nadolski 
MD
Responsible for 
Harvey Nash in 
Germany and Nash 
Technologies.
Nick Marsh 
MD
Responsible for the 
Executive Search 
business in Asia. 
Ronny Lommelen 
MD
Responsible for 
Harvey Nash 
operations in 
Belgium.
Jan Leen 'tJong 
MD
Responsible for 
Harvey Nash 
operations in the 
Netherlands.
Magnus Tegborg 
MD
Responsible for the 
European Executive 
Search business and 
Chair of the Executive 
Consulting Board.
Meet the Executive Council
The Executive Council is the senior operational management team for the business. Its members are full-time senior managers and it 
is made up of Albert Ellis, Richard Ashcroft, Simon Wassall plus: Directors’ profiles
Julie Baddeley
Non-Executive Chairman
Julie Baddeley, aged 64, is Non-Executive Chairman and was appointed to the Board in September 2011. 
She was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee at the Annual 
General Meeting in June 2013. Julie has held directorships at the BOC Group, Camelot Group plc, Spice plc, the 
Yorkshire Building Society and the Woolwich. Previously, Julie headed a global team as partner in charge of a 
substantial part of Accenture’s change management practice. Julie is also a Non-Executive Director of Ebiquity 
plc and Chrysalis VCT plc, and Chairman of Sustain Limited, a leading environmental consultancy. 
Ian Davies
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Ian Davies, aged 60, is a Non-Executive Director and was appointed in September 2010. He was also 
appointed Senior Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting in June 2013. Ian is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and also chaired the Remuneration Committee until September 2014. Ian is a former audit 
partner and has significant listed Board experience. He is currently Deputy Chairman of BMT Group Limited, 
and Chairman of their Audit Committee and Employee Benefits Trust. Ian is also a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Chairman of the ICAEW Remuneration Committee and an 
elected member of the Board, Council and Nomination Committee. 
David Bezem
Non-Executive Director
David Bezem, aged 54, is a Non-Executive Director and was appointed in June 2013. He took over as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee in September 2014. David is also a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee of Focusrite plc. David has more than 25 years’ experience providing corporate 
finance advice, focusing on the support services and media sectors. He was a Managing Director in Altium’s 
corporate finance business and prior to that of Close Brothers Corporate Finance. David qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co.
Kevin Thomas
Non-Executive Director
Kevin Thomas, aged 61, is a Non-Executive Director and was appointed in May 2014. He also serves on the 
Board of Babcock International Group plc as Chief Executive of their Support Services Division. Before joining 
Babcock, he spent 12 years in facilities management, including seven years with Serco Group plc and 15 years 
in local government with Merton, Surrey and Southwark councils. He is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors and a Freeman of the City of London.
Albert Ellis 
Chief Executive Officer
Albert Ellis, aged 51, is Chief Executive Officer and was appointed to the Board in February 2000, as Group 
Finance Director. He was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in June 2005. He was previously a Finance 
Director with Hays plc. 
Richard Ashcroft
Group Finance Director
Richard Ashcroft, aged 57, is Group Finance Director and Company Secretary. He was appointed in October 
2005, having previously spent 20 years in senior financial positions in a number of UK public companies, 
including Michael Page International plc.
Simon Wassall
European Managing Director
Simon Wassall, aged 52, was appointed to the Board in October 2005. He has been with the Group since 1994 
and is responsible for the UK and European IT recruitment operations. 
HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC DIRECTORS, SECRETARY AND ADVISERS / 7 ABN AMRO Bank 
8 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC DIRECTORS, SECRETARY AND ADVISERS 
Directors, Secretary and Advisers
Directors
Julie Baddeley
Ian Davies
David Bezem
Kevin Thomas
Albert Ellis
Richard Ashcroft 
Simon Wassall 
Secretary
Richard Ashcroft
Registered Office
Harvey Nash Group plc
110 Bishopsgate
London EC2N 4AY
Registered Number
03320790
Solicitors
Travers Smith LLP
10 Snow Hill
London EC1A 2AL
Registrars
Equiniti
PO Box 4630
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6QQ
Independent Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Principal Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
PO Box 4RY 
250 Regent Street 
London W1A 4RY HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT / 9
Financial Performance 
The Group delivered a strong set of results achieving growth in all 
service lines on a constant currency basis. Reported revenue for 
the year was £696.6m (2014: £697.3m) and profit before tax and 
non-recurring items was £9.0m (2014: £9.0m).
Revenue and gross profit increased on a constant currency 
basis by 4.0% and 5.3% respectively in the year as a result of 
strong growth in contract recruitment in the UK and contract 
management services in Benelux in particular. The devaluation 
of the euro and the relatively subdued demand for permanent 
recruitment impacted Mainland Europe performance, while 
buoyant markets supported growth in permanent recruitment 
in the USA and UK. Our successful outsourcing operations 
in Vietnam continued to grow organically in the year, and 
elsewhere in Asia our recruitment operations were strengthened 
by the acquisition of Beaumont KK, a boutique permanent 
recruitment business in Japan.
Operating profit before non-recurring items for the year was in 
line with the prior year despite investment in new operations in 
the UK and Asia and a 10% investment in fee-earning headcount 
facilitated by strong cash flows. A non-recurring charge of 
£1.3m was incurred in the year (2013: £2.6m). As previously 
communicated, this mainly related to the strategic review of 
our European telecom outsourcing business (£0.6m) and the 
restructuring of our Norwegian operations (£0.5m). Additional 
charges of £0.2m were incurred in respect of the acquisition of 
Beaumont KK and the closure of the French operations. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share, which excludes the effect of 
non-recurring items, rose by 3.0% to 9.02p (2014: 8.76p). Basic 
earnings per share, after non-recurring costs, rose by 38.2% to 
7.24p (2014: 5.24p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend 
to 2.171 pence per share (2014: 1.974p). This gives a total 
dividend for the year of 3.531 pence per share (2014: 3.212p), 
also up 10%, and reflects the Group’s progressive and sustainable 
dividend policy. Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting on 2 July 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 10 July 
2015 to shareholders on the register as at 19 June 2015.
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is to continue to grow the business through 
a balanced portfolio of services, increasing revenues, profits and 
dividends. This portfolio delivers competitive advantages and 
results in a cash-generative business model, which enables the 
Group to grow organically through investment in new services, 
geographical locations and increasing headcount, as well as 
through earnings-enhancing bolt-on acquisitions.
The core of the Group’s business model is its unique portfolio of 
services, which enables client engagement at each stage of the 
business cycle. This relationship model underpins the delivery of 
resilient financial results, demonstrated during the last downturn, 
and supports returns to shareholders. 
A balance of permanent recruitment, contract recruitment, 
managed solutions and offshore services, combined with 
our market-leading position in technology and executive 
recruitment, provides Harvey Nash with a competitive advantage 
and has ensured significant market share gains. Going forward, 
the Group will continue to invest in its offshore recruitment 
services in Vietnam, providing candidate placement services to 
the business in the USA, UK and parts of Europe.
The Board is recommending a 10% 
increase in the final dividend to 2.171p
“
“
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman 10 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
During the year under review, the Group made the small but 
strategically valuable acquisition of Beaumont KK in Japan, 
thereby consolidating our presence in Japan and leaving us well 
positioned to achieve our strategic growth objectives in the 
broader Asia-Pacific region. 
Governance and Board
Harvey Nash’s robust corporate governance framework underpins 
its performance. I have previously set out my three clear 
priorities for the Board on which we remain firmly focused. 
Our first priority is to debate the strategy for increasing 
shareholder value and to hold the executive team accountable 
for its delivery. Our second priority is to ensure that we have the 
most talented team to execute our strategy and that we plan 
effectively for succession. Our third priority is to ensure that the 
right corporate values are in place, supported by the appropriate 
governance structures and their effective implementation.
This year, as communicated in our remuneration policy, we have 
focused on further aligning executive remuneration structures to 
our objectives of delivering shareholder value and promoting the 
long-term success of the Company. We have done this through 
the implementation of a new performance share plan and the 
enhancement of annual bonus objectives to include individual 
objectives.
We have also further developed our approach to strategic 
planning in the year and challenged ourselves, as a Board, as to 
whether we have the right mechanisms in place to confirm to 
you as shareholders the longer-term viability of the business, 
which we feel we do. 
Tom Crawford and Margot Katz both stepped down from the 
Board in July 2014. Margot continues to work with us on a 
consultancy basis on the next phase of our talent strategies, 
which we consider vital to our continuing growth and success. 
Kevin Thomas, a main board director of FTSE 100-listed business 
Babcock International, joined us in May 2014. He has valuable 
experience of growing businesses of substantial scale both 
organically and through acquisition and has made a significant 
contribution to the development of our strategic planning in 
recent months. 
Further details on the role and effectiveness of the Board are 
provided in my statement in the Corporate Governance section. 
Outlook
The Group has reported growth in underlying revenues and 
profits across all its key service lines on a constant currency basis. 
The softening of permanent recruitment demand experienced in 
the fourth quarter in Mainland Europe appears to have stabilised 
and the macro outlook is currently supportive in the USA, UK, 
Ireland, Vietnam and parts of Mainland Europe, such as Germany 
and Sweden. 
As we look ahead we expect similar trends in trading conditions 
prevailing across our major markets. Sterling remains strong 
in relation to the euro and while this will continue to impact 
reported growth rates, we are nevertheless encouraged by the 
start of the current year. With the level of visibility we have after 
two reporting months, the Board believes the outturn for the 
year will be in line with its expectations.
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman
  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT 12 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy
Our focus for growth
The Group’s strategy is to continue to grow the business globally, generating increasing revenues, profits and dividends. Harvey Nash’s 
unique portfolio of services has enabled the Company to grow and maintain profitability through all stages of the business cycle, 
supporting our clients internationally in respect of all their talent needs.
Three strategic pillars underpin the model.
The core business is recruitment of talent: executive, specialist professional, project teams and offshore. These services all identify and 
source talented people, wherever in the world they may be located, and connect the Group’s clients with this talent pool.
The key strategy is to grow local and global market share: through building long-term client relationships, leveraging our unique 
portfolio of services throughout the existing network, while broadening our geographical presence both organically and through bolt-
on acquisitions.
Growth in market share is achieved by increasing the number of clients and achieving higher levels of client retention than the industry 
norm. There are also many opportunities to add additional services in existing locations in the future, broadening existing client 
relationships and securing new wins.
Growth will also be achieved by expanding operations in both existing and new locations. Investment in headcount will be made where 
the Group’s market-leading brands provide a platform for growth in new hires such as the UK/Ireland and Europe, and also in new 
markets with faster economic growth such as in Asia.
Companies attracted by the benefits of having a supplier of broad software development talent, whether in-house or in the form of 
offshore projects, are a key focus. This is a natural service extension for a technology recruitment business delivering a complete range 
of talent services to the IT function. 
We will also continue to develop the Group’s global recruitment support services centre established in Vietnam and co-located with the 
offshore services division. This centre supports our operations in the USA, Europe and Asia by augmenting our in-house recruitment 
and research capability and expertise. This delivers improved consultant productivity, reduced average cost of placement and increased 
speed to market. 
The Group’s digital strategy brings the complete portfolio of services to market via new channels using numerous social media tools 
and platforms to leverage our competitive advantages. With a reputation for being at the forefront of digital initiatives, we will 
continue to use our pioneering in-house digital research team to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the disruptive 
nature of technological change. 
1. Growth
• Expanding the client base by winning 
new contracts and mandates
• Investing in headcount to add scale in 
existing locations 
• Cross-selling the Group’s services to 
existing clients
• Organic investment in new growth 
markets and locations
• Making bolt-on acquisitions in new 
markets and service lines 
2. Profitability
• Adding value and improving pricing 
and margins through expertise and 
specialist consultant knowledge 
• Improving productivity through 
rigorous professional management 
• Developing our Vietnam centre for 
routine administrative work and 
candidate identification
• Using new technologies and ways 
of working to reduce overhead and 
property costs
• Increasing the ratio of fee-earning 
consultants to administrative 
employees
3. Sustainability
• Professional values-based delivery of 
quality services ensuring a high level 
of repeat business from all our clients
• Developing and retaining successful 
consultants
• Retaining existing clients through 
thought leadership and research
• Continued development of our 
professional services culture 
underpinned by a strong set of core 
values 
• Maintaining a strong balance sheet HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT  / 13
Model
How the portfolio works to increase shareholder value
Resilience through the business cycle
A key differentiator of our portfolio of services is the resilience it provides over the business cycle. This broad portfolio retains and maximises 
resilience and flexibility as the mix of services addresses changing client needs at each stage of the economic and business cycle. 
Demand for permanent recruitment grows as markets expand, while temporary, contract and offshore services enable clients to 
balance risk and achieve cost reductions. Managed solutions increasingly have become the gateway to new client relationships whether 
it’s the management of client IT operations or providing recruitment outsourcing and payroll services. Increasingly, more routine 
elements of the recruitment or solutions process are undertaken offshore, reducing cost and increasing efficiency. 
Generating sustainable growth remains our key priority, enabling the Group to remain in the top quartile of its peer group as measured 
by total shareholder returns.
Cash generative in nature
The Group’s trading model is cash generative in nature over the business cycle. Our strategy is to ensure a balance in favour of annuity 
revenues, such as contract and interim recruitment, managed solutions and offshore services, which absorb working capital when in 
growth mode. These services are complemented by permanent recruitment and leadership consulting, which are higher margin and 
cash generative. 
The positive trading cash flows fund organic growth, bolt-on acquisitions and returns to shareholders in the form of increasing 
dividends. The Group’s long-term target is for a proportion of services representing 67% annuity revenues and 33% permanent 
revenues, calculated on a gross margin basis.
Balancing organic growth and acquisition
The Group’s long-term strategy is to achieve growth by both acquisition and organic investment. As the recruitment market has matured 
and the global macro-economic environment slowed, the target balance of growth has been set at 33% acquisition and 67% organic.
Portfolio of Services
LEADERSHIP SERVICES
Executive search
Interim management 
Leadership consulting 
• Leadership and assessment 
• Talent mapping 
• Diversity 
Technology recruitment
• Contract 
• Permanent 
Management and specialist 
recruitment 
Contract services
Software development
Projects and client support
Business process outsourcing
Shared services centre
• Candidate sourcing
• Group finance
• Group IT support
• Administrative support
PROFESSIONAL RECRUITMENT
DELIVERING TALENT GLOBALLY
OFFSHORE SERVICES 14 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
Leadership Services
Executive Search 
We help multinational organisations, and niche companies, to attract, recruit and retain outstanding board members, top executives, 
senior management and future leaders through high-level executive search. We compete with the largest global executive search firms 
as well as local boutiques. In our core markets, the business has a broad-based capability in all key sectors and practices.
Interim Management 
Through our market-leading interim management consultancy ‘Impact Executives’, we provide our clients with highly experienced 
executives for short-term assignments across a broad range of geographies, sectors and functions.
Leadership Consulting 
Our leadership consulting businesses support owners, boards and executive management with a full range of strategic leadership 
services, including board evaluations, leadership development, management development, managerial audits, assessments and strategic 
HR consulting. This service offering makes us true advisers to our clients around talent and leadership issues and builds long-term 
relationships as well as high-level knowledge.
Professional Recruitment 
Technology Recruitment 
Our market-leading technology recruitment business provides clients with highly skilled technology specialists and software 
development experts for contract and permanent roles and the very best executive talent for management-level and senior 
appointments. By combining the power of the Harvey Nash brand with our industry and technical expertise, we hold a pre-eminent 
market position in technology recruitment.
Management and Specialist Recruitment 
We help clients recruit finance, HR and engineering management, on a flexible or permanent basis.
Offshore Services
Projects and Software Services 
We provide application development, third-party software maintenance and outsourced software services to our clients across the 
world. Through our software development centre in Vietnam, we deliver a unique blend of high-value offshore and onshore services.
Managed Services/Business Process Outsourcing 
We take responsibility for the full management of critical technology infrastructure functions, such as data centre operations, help desk 
services and network administration. We also take responsibility for BPO operations such as payroll, archive digitalisation, data/image 
processing and back-office transactions.
Telecommunications R&D 
Through our subsidiaries in Germany and offshore facility in Vietnam, we provide vendor-independent Wireless and Wireline Networks 
R&D, providing expertise covering all phases of the communications product lifecycle. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT  / 15
The Group enjoyed another year of significant progress, 
particularly in expanding capacity across the world, adding critical 
mass in underutilised locations and opening up new markets. 
Where trading conditions were favourable, such as in the USA and 
UK, the Group increased revenues and profits while investing in 
future growth by adding to headcount. 
Despite weak demand for permanent hiring in Mainland Europe, 
the Group increased profit contribution from Sweden and Belgium 
and improved financial performance in Germany in the second 
half. In markets where trading conditions were challenging, 
management focused on restructuring the businesses affected. 
In Norway the recruitment business was restructured following 
a sharp downturn in the domestic economy, and in Germany 
a strategic review of the outsourcing business is under way, 
re-aligning it towards growth markets and making investment 
available to develop innovative software products.
Currency headwinds and sterling-based reported results mask 
a strong operational and financial performance particularly at 
local currency level in relation to the prior year. For example, the 
depreciation of the euro and the Swedish krona were two main 
factors in translating underlying growth in turnover of 3.9%* 
and therefore growth in market share into a reported decline in 
revenues in Europe of 1.9%. Currency depreciation was gradual 
over the period with the impact increasing towards the end of 
the year. Until exchange rates stabilise year-on-year this effect 
will continue to mask the underlying strength of the Group’s 
performance.
In addition, the Group has been investing in Asia with the 
longer-term strategic goal of deriving new sources of revenues 
and profits to add to its European and US footprint. With the 
exception of Vietnam, progress at the contribution level was 
slower than expected, as the Group had planned breaking into 
profit earlier than is now realistic. The main driver for this was 
the continued challenging Australian market caused by the 
decline in the resources sector and the slowdown in Hong 
Kong and China. Finally, the office in Tokyo benefited from the 
acquisition of Beaumont KK, an executive search team, resulting 
in synergies between the existing outsourcing service and the 
new recruitment team.
More detail about the performance of the business is set out 
below by region.
United Kingdom and Ireland 
 
Revenue in the UK and Ireland increased by 2.7% to £229.8m 
(2014: £223.7m) and gross profit increased by 8.4% to £36.2m 
(2014: £33.4m). Operating profit was up 16.6% at £3.7m** 
compared to £3.2m the previous year. 
This was a strong performance, as the business capitalised on 
market share gains and continued with investment to expand 
capacity during the recession. 
Demand for contingent technology professionals continued to 
be the strongest area of the market. London, and the Finance 
and Banking sectors in particular, were buoyant. It has been 
widely reported that broader demand for executive and higher-
salary positions did not demonstrate similar growth and this has 
been the Group’s experience too. However, Education, Health, 
Consumer and Board recruitment has been active. We have also 
Albert Ellis
Chief Executive
Another year of significant progress 
with investment in the future
“
“
CEO REVIEW
 
2015 
Actual
 
2015 
Constant currency 
 
2014 
Turnover  229.8 + 2.7% 231.7 + 3.6% 223.7  
Gross profit  36.2 + 8.4% 36.5 + 9.5%  33.4  
Operating profit**  3.7 + 16.6% 3.8 + 18.7%  3.2  
£m % % £m £m
* On a constant basis
** Before non-recurring items 16 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
seen clients recruit strategic hires with an emphasis on gender 
balance and diversity. Interim management reported a steady 
performance with an increasing pipeline of opportunities as the 
economy continued to improve.
Growth came from the recently established locations in the UK, 
Newcastle, Bristol and Warrington, with the larger hubs such as 
Birmingham and Manchester broadly flat against record results 
in the prior year. In Scotland, the referendum reduced demand 
for permanent hires, but the number of contractors out at the 
year-end was up by 87% compared to the previous year. In 
Ireland, continued strong demand from mainly US and European 
multinationals for IT contractors drove overall growth up 22%* in 
gross profit on the prior year. The recently established office in 
Cork also delivered good growth albeit from a low base, up 94%* 
on the prior year.
Gross profit from Offshore IT Services was once again the fastest-
growing service, up 17% following a strong year of new business 
sales, underpinning the UK profitability and cementing key 
recruitment client relationships. 
Mainland Europe
 
Revenue in Mainland Europe was £413.2m (2014: £421.2m) and 
gross profit was £37.4m (2014: £40.2m). On a constant currency 
basis, revenue increased by 3.9% and gross profit remained level. 
Operating profit was materially aligned to the prior year at £5.5m 
(2014: £5.6m) but increased by 3.0% on a constant currency basis. 
Currency headwinds were the key feature of the eurozone results. 
The decline in revenue was mainly due to the impact of the 
weakening euro, a change in the mix in favour of higher-margin 
contract recruitment and a decline in permanent revenues in 
the eurozone with the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and 
Germany all reporting declines. 
Results from the Benelux countries were robust, with revenue 
overall increasing 7.5%* as clients continued to favour temporary 
recruitment over permanent recruitment. The business acquired 
in 2012, Talent IT in Antwerp, delivered a strong result in its final 
earnout year with gross profit up 25%*. The Netherlands reported 
a small decline of 2% in gross profit* mainly related to lower 
permanent recruitment. 
In the Nordics, gross profit declined overall as a result of the 
weak performance in Norway. The Group’s business in Sweden 
performed well with overall gross profit up 16%* despite 
challenging trading conditions, with the interim management 
business reporting the strongest growth, up 43%*. Finland and 
Denmark, although small, both reported strong increases in gross 
profit. Norway’s economy has been impacted by weakening 
domestic demand in the first half of the year and a significant 
decline in the price of oil in the second half such that gross profit 
was down by 37%*. The downsizing of the operation and property 
was not sufficient to return the Norwegian business to breakeven 
by the end of the year although we expect a smaller loss going 
into the 2016 financial year.
The results from Central & Eastern Europe, which include 
Germany, Switzerland and Poland, were also mixed. In Switzerland 
and Germany, recruitment gross profit declined by 4%* and 6%* 
respectively. However, in Germany a weak first half was offset by 
a much stronger second half mainly due to increasing demand for 
engineering and employed IT consultants. Executive recruitment 
in Poland was lower than the previous year, however technology 
recruitment was strong with a 94% increase in gross profit*.
United States
Revenue in the USA increased by 1.6% to £47.7m (2014: £46.9m) 
and gross profit increased by 3.7% to £11.8m (2014: £11.4m), 
while operating profit remained flat. 
The US economy was the strongest economy across the Group 
during the year to January 2015. The business invested in 
headcount (+11%) as confidence in the recovery grew stronger. 
Permanent recruitment was robust as the pipeline of orders for 
permanent hires continued to improve with net fees up 10.9%* 
on the prior year, with the Seattle office generating the highest 
proportion. Executive search was up 15%* boosted by demand 
for senior executives to drive technology-based digital business 
strategies in larger companies, reflecting the strength of the US 
jobs market.
A natural swing in demand occurred during the year from contract 
to permanent as clients switched their resourcing strategies to 
filling long-term permanent positions. This impacted contribution 
and led to a small decline in core, higher-margin, contracting gross 
profit over the year. This decline was offset by strong growth 
in the new Enterprise Technical Delivery Service, which grew by 
31%*. This service provides contract resources to large enterprises 
mainly through a vendor management programme using the 
Group’s unique offshore sourcing strategy. 
The acute skills shortage combined with investment in digital 
resulted in many clients, mainly in the media sector, resourcing 
projects with offshore skills based in Vietnam, resulting in an 
increase of 26% in gross profit* from this service.
 2014 
Turnover  
47.7  + 1.6% 49.7  + 5.9% 46.9  
Gross profit 
11.8  + 3.7% 12.3  + 7.9% 11.4  
Operating profit**  
0.9   + 1.5% 0.9  + 7.9% 0.9  
2015 
Actual
 
2015 
Constant currency 
 £m % % £m £m
 
 
 
2014 
Turnover 413.2 - 1.9% 437.6  + 3.9% 421.2  
Gross profit 37.4 - 6.9% 40.2 -  40.2  
Operating profit**  5.5 - 2.1% 5.8 + 3.0% 5.6  
2015 
Actual
 
2015 
Constant currency 
 £m % % £m £m
* On a constant basis
** Before non-recurring items HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT  / 17
 2014 
Turnover (£m) 
6.0  + 8.8% 6.3  + 14.2% 5.5  
Gross profit (£m) 
4.0  + 11.4% 4.2  + 17.2% 3.6  
Operating profit** (£m) 
(0.3) - 462.0%  (0.3) - 433.9% 0.1  
2015 
Actual
 
2015 
Constant currency 
 £m % % £m £m
Asia Pacific
 
Revenue in Asia Pacific increased by 8.8% to £6.0m (2014: £5.5m) 
and gross profit increased by 11.4% to £4.0m (2014: £3.6m). 
Operating loss was £0.3m (2014: £0.1m profit) due to investment 
in fee-earning headcount and new offices.
Although progress was slower than initially expected, results from 
the region were still encouraging with core revenues, excluding 
business process outsourcing, up 33% in reported currency. 
Continued investment in headcount organically in Hong Kong 
and Vietnam, and by acquisition in Tokyo, resulted in a 16% 
increase overall. While Australia remains challenging, Hong Kong 
and Vietnam continue to grow their pipelines and headcount. 
The Tokyo team have experienced a mixed six months with the 
integration process a distraction as they settle into the Group. 
However, we are confident that the business will be back on track 
in the year ahead.
Future 
During the 2015 financial year, the Group expanded fee-earning 
capacity by a significant 10% overall as the recovery gradually 
took hold. With stronger economic growth, low unemployment 
and rising business confidence in the USA and the UK, stability 
in Europe and a return to growth in Asia, the jobs markets will 
continue to improve. In Mainland Europe, stability appears to 
be returning to the sector after the uncertainty in the latter part 
of 2014. A strategic review to explore options going forward is 
under way in relation to the German outsourcing business. In 
Asia, pipelines are indicating an improving trend into the second 
quarter of the 2016 financial year. 
By continuing to invest in the Group’s capacity, including its ability 
to source and recruit anywhere in the world from its offshore 
location in Vietnam, there is confidence that, subject to further 
volatility in the currency markets, the Group has every prospect of 
growing now and in the future. 18 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
Key Performance Indicators
The Board considers the following four performance indicators to be key in monitoring the Group’s performance.
Net fee growth
Net fee growth is critical to increasing operating profit and the 
value of the Group.
Currency headwinds masked a strong operational and financial 
performance by the Group, with underlying net fees increasing by 
5.3% on a constant currency basis.
Operating profit* per region
Our international footprint across Europe, the USA and Asia 
Pacific diversifies the Group’s exposure to any one country or 
economic region.
In the current year, the Group continued to gain market share 
in mature markets such as the UK and also expanded into new 
markets with the acquisition in Japan.
Gross profit ratio
A balanced portfolio of services engages clients at all stages of 
the economic cycle, resulting in financial resilience.
The Group maintained a steady balance between its three key 
sources of gross profit during the year.
 
Net cash generated from operating activities
Strong cash generation is key to sustainable dividends and a net 
positive cash balance, indicative of a strong balance sheet.
Efficient working capital management, including a reduction 
in debtor days to 42.5 days (2014: 46.1 days), contributed to a 
38% increase in net cash generated from operating activities in 
addition to the growth in net fees.
 
16% 
6% 
7% 
1% 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
38% 
37% 
38% 
37% 
46% 
45% 
46% 
47% 
16% 
18% 
16% 
16% 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
Permanent Contracting Outsourcing 
£2.4m 
£2.7m 
£3.2m 
£3.7m 
£5.6m 
£5.8m 
£5.6m 
£5.5m 
£1.0m 
£0.9m 
£0.9m 
£0.6m 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
UK & Ireland Mainland Europe Rest of World 
£1.8m 
£6.7m 
£5.4m 
£7.5m 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
*Before non-recurring items HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT  / 19
Revenue was in line with the previous year at £696.6m (2014: 
£697.3m) but 4.0% higher on a constant currency basis, while 
gross profit was 1.0% higher at £89.5m (2014: £88.6m) and 5.3% 
higher on a constant currency basis. Gross profit (on a constant 
currency basis) from permanent recruitment was 3.0% higher, 
from contracting was 6.3% higher and from offshore solutions 
was 7.8% higher. During the year, in the light of the improving 
outlook in key markets, a decision was taken to invest in fee-
earner headcount, which increased by 9.8% to 600 (2014: 546).
The net finance charge of £0.7m remained in line with the prior 
year, resulting in an overall increase in profit after tax for the year 
of 36.8% to £5.3m (2014: 3.9m).
Taxation
The overall effective rate of tax is a function of the mix of profits 
between the various countries in which the Group operates, 
with higher rates in the United States, Germany and Belgium in 
particular being offset by lower rates elsewhere.
The tax charge for the year was £2.4m (2014: £2.5m) giving 
an overall effective rate of tax before non-recurring items of 
27.1% (2014: 28.2%). The deferred income tax asset increased 
by £0.2m, relating to UK tax losses. The deferred tax asset of 
£2.8m (2014: £2.6m) relates primarily to accrued Group interest 
charges payable by the US business (£1.0m), tax losses (£0.8m) 
and post-employment liabilities (£0.4m) and was partially offset 
by a deferred tax liability of £0.3m relating mainly to unremitted 
earnings (£0.1m) and accrued revenue (£0.2m). 
Earnings per Share
Adjusted basic earnings per share, which excludes the effect of 
non-recurring costs, rose by 2.97% to 9.02p (2014: 8.76p). Basic 
earnings per share rose by 38.2% to 7.24p (2014: 5.24p).
Balance Sheet
Total net assets at the year-end were £64.6m (2014: £65.5m), a 
decrease of 1.3% due to currency movements being greater than 
retained profits. 
Property, plant and equipment increased by £0.1m as capital 
additions exceeded depreciation. Fixed asset disposals of £0.6m 
were made, of which £0.5m were fully depreciated.
Intangible assets increased by £1.0m to £51.4m due to software 
capitalisation of £1.7m and the acquisition of Beaumont (£0.7m) 
offset by exchange adjustments (£1.4m) and brand amortisation 
(£0.1m).
Net trade receivables decreased to £80.0m (2014: £112.6m), as a 
result of a combination of efficient working capital management 
and the timing of invoicing. Prepayments and accrued income 
rose by £13.9m, due mainly to increases in accrued revenue in 
the Netherlands as a result of the timing of invoicing. Debtor 
days decreased to 42.5 days (2014: 46.1 days). Trade payables 
decreased by £7.8m to £59.1m, again due mainly to the timing 
of payments. Accruals for taxes and social security payable 
decreased by £4.1m due mainly to the earlier payment of VAT. 
Other accruals decreased by £3.5m due mainly to lower accruals 
for contractor costs in the Netherlands.
Contingent consideration also increased by £0.2m to £2.4m 
(2014: £2.2m), being deferred consideration payable of £0.5m 
for the acquisition of Beaumont and offset by foreign exchange 
movements. The closing balance includes £2.0m estimated as 
payable during the 2016 financial year, following the completion 
of the earnout period which commenced on acquisition of the 
Talent IT business. The overall decrease of £0.7m in provisions for 
liabilities and charges relates predominantly to the utilisation of 
the provision for German termination costs and costs in respect 
of the closure of the French office which will be completed in 
2015, partially offset by costs relating to the restructuring of the 
Norwegian business.
The Group had a positive net cash position at 31 January 2015 of 
£2.1m (2014: £3.8m) and has no long-term debt.
Cash Flow
Free cash flow from operating activities before movements in 
working capital was once again strong at £10.2m (2014: £9.2m). 
Overall net cash at 31 January 2015 of £2.1m was £1.7m lower 
than the previous year owing mainly to a combination of higher 
working capital (£0.5m), share purchases for the Employee Benefit 
Trust (£1.6m), cash outflow on non-recurring items (£2.0m), the 
purchase of Beaumont for cash (£0.4m) and dividend payments 
(£2.4m). Cash outflow on capital expenditure in the year was 
£0.1m higher than the previous year, and income taxes paid were 
£0.7m higher. 
Banking Facilities
The Group maintains substantial headroom in its banking facilities 
to fund working capital with £50m invoice discounting facilities of 
which £25m is in the United Kingdom, the equivalent in euros of 
£15m is in the Netherlands, the equivalent in US Dollars of £5m 
is in the United States and the equivalent in euros of £5m is in 
Belgium, plus a £2m overdraft facility in the United Kingdom.
Richard Ashcroft
Finance Director
Strong cash generation continues 
to support a robust balance sheet
“
“
FD REVIEW 20 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
Key Risks 
Risk Description Mitigation 
Technological 
development 
and digital 
innovation
The risk of disruption to the recruitment 
sector through digital innovation is 
mainly considered to be the growing 
use of social media to source 
candidates.
The Group has invested time both at Board level and in the 
operational context to design suitable strategies to capture the 
benefits of the current disruption and mitigate potential erosion of 
the Group’s market share. The Group has also invested significantly 
in developing its in-house expertise in utilising social media 
channels to accelerate sourcing and recruiting.
Economic 
environment
The performance of the Group is 
impacted by the economic cycles of 
the economies of the countries in 
which it operates. 
The Group developed a broad portfolio of services appropriate 
to different stages of the economic cycle and a continued focus 
on annuity revenue streams providing enhanced visibility and 
improving client retention rates during downturns. 
Foreign 
exchange
The global nature of Group operations 
naturally gives rise to exposure to a 
basket of currency movements, both in 
actual cash gains/losses and translation 
differences.
The Group ensures that natural hedging takes place as the 
majority of its costs are aligned with revenues in single currencies, 
and manages its exposure on equity investments in overseas 
subsidiaries through foreign currency borrowings. Cash gains 
or losses are limited through active management of working 
capital and appropriate accounting policies and financial controls. 
Variances on translation arise as part of the strategy of increasing 
international exposure and are not actively hedged. 
Key clients The Group is not overly reliant on any 
one key client, however there is a risk 
that business performance may be 
impacted if a number of key clients 
were lost. 
The Group’s client-centric strategy places great emphasis on 
the client and the retention of the relationship. A diversified 
geographical footprint and sector focus also reduces the risk of key 
client losses affecting the overall Group due to adverse country or 
sector-specific conditions. 
Talent The loss of senior management or key 
personnel could adversely affect the 
Group’s results. 
Sponsored by the Executive Council and implemented by the 
Group’s Head of Talent, a programme of ongoing investment in 
talent management is focused on maintaining high retention rates 
of identified key consultants and leaders.
Regulatory 
environment 
The Group has significant operations 
outside the UK and is therefore 
exposed to movements in exchange 
rates. 
Harvey Nash manages its exposure on equity investments in 
overseas subsidiaries through foreign currency borrowings. The 
currency risk of holding assets and liabilities in foreign currencies 
across the Group is managed by partially matching foreign currency 
assets with foreign currency liabilities.
The recruitment industry is governed 
by an increasing level of compliance, 
which varies from country to country 
and market to market. 
The Group utilises high-quality external professional advice to 
reduce risk in this area. Robust internal controls ensure high 
levels of compliance in relation to legal and contractual risks and 
obligations.
Data protection The Group operates with a number 
of complex systems which maintain 
confidential data.
Data protection is a key priority. The Group has data protection and 
security policies in place and regularly reviews the effectiveness of 
these policies.  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT  / 21
Corporate Responsibility
People
People are at the heart of our business and the Board takes a keen interest in how we engage with and develop our employees. We foster 
employee engagement through building: 
• respect for the organisation and its leaders 
• understanding of, and opportunities to influence, the Group’s strategy and performance
• the chance to grow and develop within the organisation. 
Progress is measured in an annual Employee Engagement Survey. In the 2014 survey, when asked whether they were satisfied with Harvey 
Nash as an employer, over 80% of respondents said they felt positively about the Group and 84% said that they would recommend the 
Group as a great place to work. 
The Group’s internal communications are designed to achieve awareness of the financial and economic factors that affect the 
performance of the Group. Employees are consulted regularly to make sure that their views can be taken into account when decisions are 
made that affect their interests. Over 80% of respondents in the 2014 survey indicated that management had a clear view of where the 
organisation is going and how to get there.
Harvey Nash is a meritocracy, where talent and contribution come first. An attractive culture and strong, commercial corporate values 
are at the heart of what we do. Integrity, transparency, fairness, passion and excellence in delivery to our clients are just some examples 
of the professional attributes to which we all aspire. We always aim to work in the longer-term interests of our clients and candidates 
and we know that this, in turn, will be in the interests of our shareholders. We offer our employees the opportunity to participate in 
share incentive plans to help align their interests with those of shareholders and reward contribution to the Group’s performance. Our 
commitment is reflected in our membership of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation, which requires us to observe the 
highest principles, of ethics, integrity, professional conduct and fair practice.
Harvey Nash not only ensures that employment decisions are consistent with equal opportunities legislation in each country, but also 
actively encourages diversity consciousness among its management, staff and clients. One of our key principles is that the Group’s senior 
management includes nationals in the country in which they operate, so that they understand the market and are naturally integrated 
in the local business culture. Our hugely successful Inspire and Aspire programmes set out to encourage promotion of women to the 
highest levels in our UK and international markets.
The table below summarises the gender diversity of the Group at the end of the financial year. This has been prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013.
Male Female
No. % No. %
Group Board of Directors 6 86% 1 14%
Group Managing Directors 10 67% 5 33%
Group Employees 436 46% 521 54%
Group Senior Managers 60 71% 25 29%
Directors of undertakings included in the consolidation 15 94% 1 6%
Full consideration is also given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working environment of all staff, including those with disabilities. 
The Group respects human rights and regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair treatment and respect for privacy as having 
the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and suppliers. The Board ensures that its policies 
encourage respect for the individual. These policies are communicated to all employees through the Human Resources Policies Manual. 
Environment
The Board recognises that the business must minimise its impact on the environment and follows recommendations from the Carbon 
Trust to reduce its carbon footprint. As a service business, our operations are inherently less damaging to the environment than some 
other business sectors. However, to reduce our emissions as much as possible the Group’s environmental policy statement commits us to: 
• reducing the overall amount of waste being sent to landfill by separating out materials for recycling
• making use of mains water supply for personal consumption through on-site water filtration and purification
• optimising the operation of building cooling and heating systems
• introducing low-energy lighting wherever appropriate and feasible
• using software that automatically switches off computers to reduce consumption of power
• where possible using low-emission travel alternatives such as public transport and video conferencing 
• taking account of our carbon footprint in procurement of goods, services and material capital items. 22 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group surveyed its environmental impact in the form of greenhouse gases in the year. The estimated greenhouse gas emissions for 
the Group for the 2015 financial year were 2,077 tonnes of CO 2e (2014: 1,821 tonnes of CO 2e), or 0.9 tonnes of CO 2e per employee.* 
The main emissions source is purchased electricity (Scope 2), representing 62% of the total carbon footprint. Fuel combustion (Scope 1) 
represented 10% of the total carbon footprint.
We calculated the above greenhouse gas emissions estimate to cover all material sources of emissions for which the Group is responsible. 
The methodology used was that of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition, 
2004). Responsibility for emissions sources was determined using the operational control approach. All emissions sources required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 are included.
The estimate covers all operations that are consolidated within the financial statements and the offices leased to conduct these 
operations. Revenue data (e.g. turnover) were collected from the Group’s largest offices, which together employ approximately 80% of the 
Group’s employees, and extrapolated to cover the whole Group. Data were also collected for the Group’s transport activity and research & 
development sites. Activity data were then converted to greenhouse gas estimates using the UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting 2014.
 
Charitable contributions 
Many of our staff engage in activities that support charities and their local communities, which is encouraged by senior management 
and the Board. 
Here are a few examples:
In the UK, Sherree Young, Head of Practice Oil & Gas, is a Non-Executive Director and trustee at Kids’ City, a London-based charity 
providing childcare and out-of-school activities for children. Sherree also supports the Restoration of Appearance and Function Trust, by 
raising awareness of the charity’s pioneering work and fundraising within the Oil & Gas sector, raising over £100,000 to date. 
Twenty-five Harvey Nash staff have been involved in raising money for Byte Night, in aid of Action for Children, including achieving the 
world record for the furthest distance travelled on a static bike in 12 hours, as well as various ‘sleep outs’. We also sponsored the NOAH 
Conference, helping alleviate deprivation in the UK.
In Ireland we support the Simon Community, helping people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. This not only involved raising 
money, but staff also dedicated their own time for hands-on involvement in refurbishing and decorating a new property.
Our international offices and staff are active in supporting a wide number of causes. In Germany we continued to support Biss Magazine, 
a street magazine written in part and sold by the homeless and others in difficult social situations. In Sweden we carried out a variety of 
pro bono board appointment and assessment work for the Stockholm City Mission, Médecins Sans Frontières and the Swedish Childhood 
Cancer Foundation. In the US we support the ADA Developers Academy, helping women take their first step into software development, 
as well as a San Francisco-based foodbank. In the Netherlands staff participated for the fourth year in the Unicef run in Breukelen. Our 
Vietnamese team also actively participates in fundraising for local children’s charities.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Albert Ellis
Chief Executive
* tCO2e per employee includes contractors’ headcount. This is in line with DEFRA guidelines to report on employees, both permanent and temporary HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC
GOVERNANCE & ACCOUNTS 
2015 24 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
For the year ended 31 January 2015
Dear Shareholders 
Harvey Nash holds the principles of good corporate governance at its core. As a Board, we recognise that we have been entrusted with 
the stewardship of the Company and its undertakings by our shareholders, and at all times carry out our responsibilities in a transparent 
manner with honesty, integrity and commitment. During the year the members of the Board have met regularly with a number of you 
through our shareholder consultation process and we are keen to continue to do so to ensure that we are aligned in our vision for the 
long-term success of the Company. 
In the interests of full disclosure we have set out in these financial statements the sources of capital made available to the Group other 
than that provided by shareholders. As in previous years, we continue to use an invoice discounting facility provided by RBS of £50m for 
the Group as a whole. We also have an overdraft facility of £2m in the UK. 
As a Board, we have reviewed the statements in this report to ensure that they comply with the spirit of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and in particular with the provision of C1.1 that they are fair, balanced and understandable. We have reviewed the Strategic Report 
as set out on pages 11 to 22 of the Annual Report to ensure that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. We are satisfied that it is consistent with our understanding of business performance, 
financial position and the story told by the numbers. We have highlighted the risks that we perceive the business faces and how they 
have been and will continue to be mitigated. The Audit Committee also reviewed the statements as a whole to ascertain whether the 
statements were fair, balanced and understandable with particular consideration of the selection and application of suitable accounting 
policies, the reasonableness of accounting judgements and estimates, and the appropriate application of accounting standards. 
We are confident that we have achieved our aim of transparency and hope that you agree we have provided you with the information 
you need to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy. 
As previously communicated, the Audit Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate to conduct a tender of external audit services 
in May 2014. The Committee concluded that it was and undertook a comprehensive tender process. As a result, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed to replace PwC as External Auditor in November 2014. The Board approved 
this recommendation, and Deloitte LLP has been appointed to fill the casual vacancy arising from the resignation of PwC until the 
shareholder vote on the appointment of the External Auditor at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015. 
The Board completed its annual evaluation process in January 2015. A formal survey was conducted to allow the members of the Board 
to provide confidential feedback on its performance. The feedback obtained was discussed and actions set where required. No significant 
issues were raised and the Board concluded that it remains effective and that Directors have access to suitable resources to update and 
develop their knowledge and capability.
Throughout the year ended 31 January 2015 and to the date of this document, the Group has been in compliance with the Code 
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (2012). The Code can be found on the FRC website (www.frc.org.uk) and further 
details of how we have complied with the Code can be found in the statement of internal control.
Julie Baddeley
Chairman HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  / 25
Application of the provisions of the Code
Board of Directors
During the financial year there were at least three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors. Tom Crawford was not considered by the 
Board to be independent due to his significant shareholding and length of service. A list of Director biographies and their roles is given 
on page 7. The Board members with executive responsibility were the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, and European 
Managing Director. The following changes to the Board’s members occurred during the year: 
• Tom Crawford retired from the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 July 2014
• Kevin Thomas was appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2014
• Margot Katz completed her three-year term as Group Director of Talent and did not stand for re-election at the Annual General Meet-
ing on 3 July 2014.
Julie Baddeley and Richard Ashcroft will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015. The Board is satisfied that 
both Directors have sufficient skills and experience that qualify them for re-election.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and has a fixed schedule for reviewing the Group’s operating performance. In addition, 
other meetings are arranged as required to deal with specific issues or transactions. The Board also has a schedule of matters and 
responsibilities specifically reserved to itself, the main items of which include:
• approval of the published financial results and other statements
• appointments to the Board and Board Committees
• annual approval of the Group Strategic Plan and Budget
• approval for acquisitions, mergers and disposals
• approval for new businesses that require start-up capital
• approval of capital expenditure and leasehold agreements over certain thresholds
• approval of material contracts over certain thresholds and those not in the ordinary course of business
• approval of treasury policy and significant financing arrangements
• recommendation of the proposed level and payment of dividends.
Board and Committee attendance 
Number of meetings
Group Board
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Total number of meetings 10 2 7 4
Non-Executive Directors
Julie Baddeley 10/10 2/2 7/7 –
David Bezem 10/10 2/2 6/7 4/4
Tom Crawford
 (1) 
(retired 3 July 2014) 3/3 – – –
Ian Davies 10/10 2/2 7/7 4/4
Kevin Thomas (appointed 1 May 2014) 8/8 1/1 3/4 2/2
Executive Directors
Albert Ellis 10/10 2/2 – –
Richard Ashcroft 10/10 – – –
Simon Wassall 10/10 – – –
Margot Katz (retired 3 July 2014) 3/3 – – –
1. Tom Crawford, a founder of the business, held a significant shareholding throughout the period of his directorship and is therefore not considered 
to be independent. All other Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Group.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the 
Board. There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Ian Davies, the Senior Independent Director. The Non-
Executive Directors meet regularly during the year without the executives and provide effective balance and challenge.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the overall operational and financial management of the Group within the framework set 
out by the Board. The Executive Council sits below the Group Board and executes the day-to-day running of operations. The Executive 
Council is made up of senior operational management, including the Executive Directors. 
Outside the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors make themselves available for 
consultation with the executive team as often as necessary. 26 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Procedural compliance is monitored by the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary. The appointment and removal of 
Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole. Independent professional advice and training are available to all the Directors. The Senior 
Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders, through the Company Secretary. The Executive Directors meet with 
the Company’s major shareholders and other potential investors on a regular basis and report to the Board on those meetings.
On joining the Board, a new Director receives appropriate induction, including meetings with other Directors and senior management, the 
opportunity to visit the Group’s key operations and meeting the Group’s principal advisers. 
The Board has a policy of providing reasonable funding for independent professional advice for all Directors in furtherance of their duties 
as Directors of the Parent Company and continued professional development.
The Board discusses and reviews its performance and membership regularly and sets its objectives annually. As part of this process, the 
Board, including the Chairman, considers whether it has sufficient time to discharge its responsibilities effectively. The Directors’ profiles 
and other commitments are set out on page 7.
The Board reviews its performance every year using a comprehensive questionnaire. This year the review was led by the Senior 
Independent Director, who coordinated a confidential questionnaire to gather feedback from all the Directors. The Board considers 
each year whether to appoint external advisers for the review and thus far has felt that the process is robust and the Senior Independent 
Director is well placed to lead it internally. 
The review explored several aspects of Board work:
• Objectives and strategy • Relationships with stakeholders
• Performance management • The Board environment
• Risk • Governance
The summary results from the questionnaire were presented to the Board meeting in January 2015. No serious issues were raised, and 
the Board concluded that it remains effective.
The Board welcomed the continuing improvement in Board papers and the use of a secure portal for electronic distribution and storage 
of Board papers and reference materials. The Senior Independent Director gave feedback to the Chairman separately.
In relation to non-reserved matters the Board is assisted by a number of committees with delegated authority. The defined terms of 
reference for each committee are available within the Investors section of the Group’s website.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Group’s senior financial management and the External Auditor to review the 
interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies of the Group, its internal financial control procedures and compliance 
with accounting standards. 
The members of the Committee during the year were Ian Davies (Chairman), David Bezem and Kevin Thomas (from 1 May 2014). The 
Board considers that the members of the Committee both individually and as a whole have sufficient recent and relevant financial 
experience to discharge its function. 
The Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 50 includes details of the Audit Committee policy, practices and engagement with the 
External Auditor.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year. The members of the Committee during the year were Julie Baddeley, David Bezem, 
Ian Davies and Kevin Thomas (from 1 May 2014). David Bezem succeeded Ian Davies as the Committee Chairman on 1 September 2014. 
The Remuneration Committee determines and approves the policy, remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements of the 
Company’s Executive Directors and the Chairman. The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee, but 
does not participate in discussions of his own remuneration arrangements.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman of the Board, is set by the Executive Directors. The remuneration 
of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee in her absence.
The Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 47 includes details of remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of the Directors.
Nomination Committee
The Group has a Nomination Committee, which provides a transparent process and procedure for the appointment of new Directors to 
the Board. The members of the Committee during the year were Julie Baddeley (Chairman), Ian Davies, David Bezem and Albert Ellis. Kevin 
Thomas was also appointed to the Committee on 1 May 2014.
The Committee’s terms of reference include:
• responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board
• evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required on the Board
• succession planning. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  / 27
In making appointments the Nomination Committee takes account of the diversity of experience, gender, background and the 
composition of the Board. 
The Nomination Committee oversaw the appointment of Kevin Thomas as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2014. The Committee 
did not appoint an external search consultancy nor did it use open advertising due to the extensive list of contacts of Harvey Nash’s 
own executive search business and the Board’s professional network. The Board assessed the skill set and experience that would best 
complement and enhance the existing Board capabilities and set this out at a meeting in October 2013. A shortlist of candidates who 
met the requirements was collated and the Committee agreed that Kevin Thomas was the best fit. Kevin was interviewed by all of the 
Directors and the Chairman obtained suitable references before the appointment was confirmed in February 2014.
The Committee considers succession plans for the members of the Group Board over the short and longer term, keeping in mind the 
balance of skills, experience and background required to ensure that the Group’s commitment to deliver sustainable shareholder value 
is met. The Committee considers the requirements of the Board and seeks to maintain a balance between innovation and experience 
when considering the required composition of the Board. In the current year the Committee specifically reviewed both emergency 
and managed succession plans for the Executive Directors. The Group remains committed to maximising career opportunities through 
significant investment in training and professional development at all levels of the Group. The Committee supports our internal 
development programmes to build the skill sets in our employees that are required in future Board Directors and leaders. 
The terms and conditions for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for review at 110 Bishopsgate, EC2N 4AY during 
normal business hours and 15 minutes before the AGM begins at 9.30am on 2 July 2015. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Board maintains regular dialogue with its major shareholders and City analysts by conducting formal presentations, being readily 
available for discussion and providing information as required. Shareholder attendance and participation at the AGM is welcomed. 
Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association require shareholder approval at the AGM.
Internal Control
The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal controls, for monitoring their 
effectiveness to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information used within the business and 
for publication, and that assets are safeguarded. There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the 
most effective system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board identifies and appraises risks, and maintains control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial and organisational 
structure matters with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. There are established procedures for planning 
and capital expenditure, for information and reporting systems, and for monitoring the Group’s business and its performance. The Board 
has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal financial control within an established framework 
that applies throughout the Group, and is responsible for reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures.
The Directors believe the following to be the key procedures established to provide internal financial control:
• the operation of authorisation procedures
• clearly delegated responsibilities
• close involvement of senior management in day-to-day activities
• setting of detailed annual budgets with reporting of variance analysis on a monthly basis
• the operation of an Audit Committee, supported by an internal audit function
• an established whistleblowing policy, the governance of which is overseen by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit function, which is not wholly independent of Group Finance, was reviewed by the Audit Committee during the year. 
While there were no significant concerns raised, all actions required as a result of the findings were discussed and agreed as part of an 
Audit Committee meeting. Further details of the assessments and actions are provided in the Audit Committee Report. 
The Directors have reviewed the systems of internal financial control in operation during the year and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report. No significant concerns were raised. The process is regularly reviewed and a full evaluation of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems is performed at least annually. This process accords with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code. 
Going Concern
In assessing the going concern and longer-term viability of the business, the Board reviewed the budget for the year ending 31 January 
2016 and long-term strategic plan. In considering the going concern of the Group, the Board also gives consideration to the key risks 
to the business as presented in the Strategic Report on page 20 and the liquidity of the Group as shown in note 15 to the consolidated 
financial statements and other sources of funding that would be available if necessary. 
After consideration of these factors, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. 28 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 January 2015
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements 
of the Company for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Principal Activities
The Group’s principal activity during the year was the provision of professional recruitment and offshore solutions. The Group has a 
number of overseas subsidiaries and branches in Europe, the USA, Vietnam, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan. The Parent Company is 
incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The registered office is 110 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 4AY. 
Details of the Group’s strategy and a discussion of trends affecting the Group’s businesses are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 
11 to 22. 
Results and Dividends 
The Group’s profit before tax and non-recurring items for the year was £9.0m (2014: £9.0m). The Group’s profit before tax was £7.7m 
(2014: £6.4m). The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.171p per share amounting to £1.6m (2014: 1.974p per share amounting 
to £1.4m), to be paid on 10 July 2015 to shareholders on the register as at 19 June 2015. If approved at the AGM on 2 July 2015, this 
would take total dividend pay-outs for the financial year to 3.531p per share (2014: 3.212p per share). This marks the eighth successive 
annual increase. As in previous years, the Harvey Nash Group EBT once again waived its right to receive dividends. As at 31 January 2015 
the EBT held 897,584 shares.
Share Capital
There was no movement in shares in issue during the financial year. The number of ordinary shares at 31 January 2015 was 73,450,393 
(2014: 73,450,393) with a nominal value of £3,672,520 (2014: £3,672,520). 
Research and Development 
The Group commenced software development of a wireless solution for the automotive and rail sectors during the financial year. 
Research and development activities are also undertaken by the offshore solutions business. Cumulative direct costs incurred of £1.7m 
(2014: £nil) were capitalised as an intangible asset, in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy set out within note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Political and Charitable Donations
The Group made no political or charitable donations during the year (2014: £nil). 
As outlined in the Corporate Responsibility section, support for worthy charities and community projects by employees is actively 
promoted. 
Directors and their Interests
The Directors who held office throughout the financial year and to the date of this report were: 
Julie Baddeley (Chairman)
Ian Davies (Senior Independent Director)
David Bezem
Tom Crawford (retired 3 July 2014)
Kevin Thomas (appointed 1 May 2014) 
Albert Ellis 
Richard Ashcroft
Margot Katz (retired 3 July 2014)
Simon Wassall 
The Company’s Articles of Association require Directors to retire from office every three years, while Non-Executive Directors who have 
served for over nine years must stand for re-election every year. Julie Baddeley and Richard Ashcroft intend to offer themselves for re-
election at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015. All Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent with the exception 
of Tom Crawford, a founder of the business, who served on the Board for over ten years prior to his retirement on 3 July 2014.
All Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company terminable by either party giving to the other not less than 12 months’ 
notice. The beneficial interests, in both shares and share options, of the Directors and their families are disclosed in detail in the 
Remuneration Report. There have been no changes in Directors’ interests between the end of the financial year and the date of this 
report. 
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for the Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC DIRECTORS’ REPORT / 29
Purchase of Own Shares
The Directors, on behalf of the Company, are empowered to authorise the purchase of up to 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital. During the financial year, the Group purchased 1,566,000 shares (1.9% of share capital) with a nominal value of £68,372 for a 
consideration of £1,566,000. The shares were purchased from the market through the Group’s EBT for the purpose of issuing shares and 
options under the Group’s incentive plans. 
Substantial Shareholdings 
On 21 April 2015, the Company had been notified that there were holdings of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company 
as follows:
Number of % of
shares total
Hargreave Hale 9,247,000 12.59
Unicorn Asset Management 7,189,023 9.79
Standard Life Investments 6,399,506 8.71
Milton Asset Management 6,374,108 8.68
Mr D Treacher 4,967,926 6.76
Mr T Crawford 3,797,923 5.17
Barclays Stockbrokers 3,441,042 4.68
Chelverton Asset Management 2,842,000 3.87
External Auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s External Auditor is unaware 
• each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s External Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A competitive tendering process was undertaken for the appointment of External Auditor during the financial year, referred to within the 
Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 50. The Committee agreed to recommend the appointment of Deloitte LLP as External Auditor.
Accordingly, PwC LLP ceased to hold office as the External Auditor effective from 27 October 2014. A formal resolution will be put to 
shareholders to appoint Deloitte LLP to office at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015.
Approval
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Albert Ellis
Chief Executive 30 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Part 1: Annual Statement
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 January 2015, Part 3 of which will be put forward 
for your consideration and approval at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015. Part 2, the Directors’ remuneration policy, was 
approved at the Annual General Meeting on 3 July 2014 and is binding for three years. We were pleased with the level of shareholder 
support shown for the new remuneration policy, with 99.8% of votes cast in favour of adopting the new policy. My predecessor as 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Ian Davies, consulted widely with shareholders last year, all of whom responded both 
promptly and constructively. The policy is set out again following this letter for your convenience so you do not have to refer back to 
last year’s Annual Report. The only changes to what was presented for your approval last year are in order to illustrate the effects of 
implementing the policy in the 2015 and 2016 financial years rather than 2014 and 2015 and to include two amendments that do not 
require your approval, as explained below.
The Group has made significant progress this year, with growth in gross profit in all service lines on a constant currency basis. Despite 
this, the devaluation of, in particular, the euro during the year impacted the Group’s overall performance materially. The results for 
the year were also affected by weaker than anticipated permanent revenues, primarily in Europe which continued to face significant 
economic challenges.
The combined impact of these factors was profit before tax and non-recurring items of £9.0m, which was flat year-on-year. Pleasingly, 
cash performance was strong, with net cash at the year-end of £2.1m despite considerable investment in our wireless technology 
business, own share purchases for the EBT, increased dividends and the acquisition of Beaumont KK in Japan. Debtor days at the year-
end were also excellent at 42.5 days, the lowest for some years. In addition, there has been further investment in staff, and new offices 
were opened in three locations in the UK. The Remuneration Committee has taken these and other factors into account when making 
decisions about remuneration as explained below.
Remuneration strategy and policy
Our remuneration policy, approved at the last Annual General Meeting, was introduced by the Committee following a review of the 
appropriateness and efficacy of our previous remuneration policies. It was developed mindful of the wider debate on executive 
remuneration and the published views of the various shareholder representative bodies. As stated above, the policy was also informed 
by the consultations carried out before it was put to shareholders, and a small number of adjustments were made as a consequence of 
that exercise. 
In particular, on 6 June 2014, the Remuneration Committee communicated through the Group’s website that, having reviewed its 
policy on sign-on payments, no such payments would be made above and beyond the normal buy-out policy to replace rewards 
forfeited or payments forgone. This revised, more restrictive policy is in line with best practice and was communicated in advance of 
the binding vote at the Annual General Meeting last year. Consequently, we are advised that it is not necessary for shareholders to 
approve this revision. This is one of the two amendments referred to above for which the policy set out in Part 2 has been updated.
The Board remains committed to aligning overall compensation with the long-term interests of shareholders, balanced by a variable 
bonus component focused on achieving stretching performance targets set annually. In the following sections of this letter, I explain 
the outcome of the annual bonus award for Executive Directors for the 2015 financial year and the approach adopted for the next 
financial year. I also report on the salary reviews for the next financial year and awards made under the Performance Share Plan.
Annual bonuses for the 2015 financial year
In accordance with the approved remuneration policy, the maximum possible total bonus payable to each of the Executive Directors in 
respect of the 2015 financial year was 100% of their respective base salaries. Up to 70% of this was based on profit before tax and non-
recurring items (‘the financial performance bonus’) and up to 30% on personal targets (‘the personal targets bonus’).
For the financial performance bonus, the Remuneration Committee set on-target and maximum performance targets of £9.8m and 
£10.2m at which levels 60% and 100% respectively of the financial performance bonus would be awarded. On-target performance 
of £9.8m reflected the Group’s budget and the City’s expectations for the 2015 financial year. The target for threshold performance 
was set at £9.0m, being the actual profit before tax and non-recurring items in the preceding financial year, at which level 4% of the 
financial performance bonus was payable. In the event, for the reasons explained above, profit of a shade over £9.0m was achieved in 
2015, resulting in 4.2% of the financial performance bonus being payable.
It is worth noting that if exchange rates in the year had remained constant versus the previous financial year, the profit performance 
bonus would have been 30% rather than 4.2% of this element of the bonus. The Remuneration Committee made no adjustment to the 
bonuses earned to take account of the impact of currency movements in the year.
The personal targets bonus for the 2015 financial year was based on three main objectives which the Remuneration Committee 
determined to be in line with the Group’s short- and longer-term objectives. Each of these accounted equally for a third of the 
maximum personal targets bonus. Albert Ellis and Simon Wassall shared the same objectives. These were as follows: HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 31
i. achievement during the year of a number of specified strategic objectives for the development of the business as set out in the 
Group’s six-year business plan adopted at the beginning of this financial year
ii. achievement of specified minimum targets for cash and debtor days at the year-end
iii. retaining at least 95% of a specified list of senior staff.
The tests determined for Richard Ashcroft were:
i. achieving a number of targets for improvements in the process for the delivery of the Annual Report and financial statements 
ii. cash and debtor day targets as above
iii. retaining 95% of the senior finance staff in the Group reporting to the Group Finance Director.
All these tests had the benefit of being objectively measurable and I am very pleased to report that they were all achieved. This has 
resulted in the three Executive Directors receiving 100% of the personal targets bonus.
In aggregate, therefore, the Executive Directors will each receive a bonus for the 2015 financial year of 32.9% of their base salary. This 
comprises 4.2% of the financial performance bonus and 100% of the personal targets bonus.
Annual bonuses and salary reviews for the 2016 financial year
The Remuneration Committee has set new bonus targets for the 2016 financial year. With respect to the financial performance bonus, 
representing 70% of the maximum possible total bonus, on-target performance, which would result in the payment of 60% of this 
element of the bonus, will require the Group to achieve a substantial increase in profit before tax and non-recurring items compared 
with the outcome for the 2015 financial year. It will also require achievement of profit in excess of the Group’s budget for the 2016 
financial year. Payment of the maximum financial performance bonus will require achievement of profit at a still higher level. These 
targets are stretching but not unrealistic in the Remuneration Committee’s view and reflect the ambitions that the Board as a whole has 
for the Group.
The tests for the personal targets bonus, representing 30% of the maximum possible total bonus, have been set for the three Executive 
Directors on a similar basis to 2015, which the Committee considers worked well. Each of the three Executive Directors has three tests, 
some shared, each accounting for a third of the personal targets bonus. These relate to the achievement of certain specified cash and 
debtor day targets, the retention of a significant proportion of the Group’s key staff, and executing successfully on specific, stated, 
strategic objectives during the year.
In accordance with changes to the Code of Corporate Governance introduced since the remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting, any bonuses awarded in respect of the 2016 and subsequent financial years to the 
Executive Directors will now be subject to malus and clawback provisions. This has been included in the updated policy report that 
follows this letter and is the second of the two amendments referred to at the beginning of this letter.
The Committee reviewed salaries for the Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year in the light of the wider exercise for the 
Group’s senior staff and the approved remuneration policy. The policy limits annual increases in base salary for the Executive Directors 
to the higher of the increase in the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) and 5%. The Committee decided that the base salaries for the Executive 
Directors should be increased by the change in RPI over the preceding 12 months prior to the beginning of the 2016 financial year. This 
was an increase of 1.6%. There were no other changes to their remuneration terms. The Committee also reviewed the remuneration 
of the Chairman and decided that this should also be increased in line with the increase in the RPI. The base fee of the Non-Executive 
Directors, which is determined by the Executive Directors, was also increased by 1.6%.
Long-term share schemes
Having consulted shareholders, a new long-term share scheme in the form of a Performance Share Plan (the ‘PSP’) was introduced 
following its approval at the last Annual General Meeting. Awards were granted to each of the three Executive Directors on 3 July 2014, 
in accordance with its terms and the remuneration policy. These awards were worth 100% of their respective base salaries based on the 
then prevailing share price of 108.5p.
Under the PSP, threshold performance is achieved if earnings per share increase by an average of 7.5% over a three-year period. In view 
of the flat year-on-year reported profit before tax and non-recurring items of £9.0m in the first year of operation, no charge has been 
accrued for the award made on that date in the 2015 accounts. The intention is that awards under the PSP should be made annually 
and the Committee will therefore make a second award to each of the Executive Directors immediately after the announcement of 
results for the 2015 financial year.
We also continue to operate the Harvey Nash 2005 Share Option Plan (the ‘CSOP’) for key members of staff below Board level although 
no new awards were made in the 2015 financial year. As stated in the approved policy, the Committee has no intention of issuing new 
share options under the CSOP to Directors.
The share options issued to Executive Directors in June 2012 under the CSOP and due to vest in June 2015 did not meet the 
performance criterion in respect of the three financial years ending on 31 January 2015. The Company has the ability under the terms 
of the CSOP to extend the term by one additional year which will mean that the performance condition will be retested in respect 
of the four financial years ending on 31 January 2016. The Committee intends to exercise this discretion. The Executive Directors 
have one other tranche of options, issued in June 2013, which will vest in June 2016, subject to the achievement of the performance 
criterion. This also can be extended by one year under the terms of the CSOP if the Committee sees fit to do so. 32 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Committee members and meetings
In accordance with best practice, set out below are the members of the Remuneration Committee during the 2015 financial year and, 
in summary, a note of the issues that the Committee has considered on the Board’s behalf.
The Remuneration Committee members comprised:
David Bezem (Chairman from 1 September 2014)
Ian Davies (Chairman until 1 September 2014)
Julie Baddeley 
Kevin Thomas (from 1 May 2014)
The Committee met seven times in the year, the attendance of which is detailed on page 25 in the Corporate Governance section. The 
following is a summary of the main topics discussed. 
18 February 2014
• Approval of the exercise of CSOP share options which had met the performance criterion. This did not include any share options 
owned by the Executive Directors.
27 February 2014
• Agreement in principle of the proposed performance targets for the PSP.
• Approval of an increase of 8% in base salary for Executive Directors, effective 1 March 2014. A cap for each of the three years of the 
new policy was also agreed, being the higher of 5% and the change in the RPI.
• Approval of an increase in the car allowance of £1,000 per annum for each Executive Director, effective 1 March 2014.
• Discussion regarding the most efficacious way of conducting the shareholder consultation in respect of the proposed new remunera-
tion policy and PSP.
24 April 2014
• Discussion of shareholder feedback on the proposed new remuneration policy and PSP to be presented for approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 3 July 2014.
• Approval of the annual bonus awards to be paid in respect of the year ended 31 January 2014.
• Approval of the annual bonus targets in respect of the year ended 31 January 2015, which are discussed in this letter on pages 30 and 31.
3 July 2014
• Approval of the grant of awards to the three Executive Directors under the PSP, which was approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting earlier on the same day. The awards were worth 100% of each Director’s base salary and the number of shares was 
calculated based on the previous day’s closing share price of 108.5p. The aggregate of the awards made was 751,825 shares and was 
subject to achievement of the performance conditions of the PSP as set out on pages 35 and 36 within Part 2 of this Report.
14 July 2014
• Authorisation was given to an employee, who was not a member of the Group Board, to exercise CSOP share options.
10 December 2014
• Review of the tests set for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the personal targets component of the annual bonus for the 
2015 financial year, with reference to performance to date, in preparation for the close of the financial year.
29 January 2015
• The change in the UK Corporate Governance Code requiring malus and clawback provisions to apply in the future to all discretionary 
awards, including annual bonuses, was noted. It was agreed that advice would be taken from the Company’s lawyers as to the most 
efficacious means of effecting this and whether shareholder approval was required. 
• The annual bonus tests for the 2016 financial year were agreed, subject to confirmation of certain figures in the 2015 audit, in respect 
of both the financial performance bonus and the personal targets bonus for each of the Executive Directors.
• The Executive Directors’ and Chairman’s fees were increased by 1.6%, in accordance with the approved remuneration policy, to come 
into effect on 1 February 2015.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2013 (‘the Regulations’)
The Companies Act 2006 requires the External Auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations. The 
parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated within the Report.
I hope you have found this letter to be a helpful summary of the Remuneration Committee’s approach to remuneration in the 2015 financial year 
and for the next financial year. As I have mentioned above, the approved remuneration policy is reprinted in Part 2, which includes notes 
on the implementation of each of the facets of the policy, and the annual report on remuneration in respect of the 2015 financial year is set out 
in Part 3. These have been prepared in accordance with the Regulations and our understanding of current best practice for remuneration reporting.
David Bezem
Remuneration Committee Chairman HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 33
Part 2: Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Current policy table
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Executive Directors.
Base salary
Objective and link 
to strategy
› Helps to recruit, reward and retain. 
› Reflects competitive market level, role, skills, experience and individual contribution.
Operation Normally reviewed annually for the following year taking into account general economic and 
market conditions, the level of increases made across the company as a whole, the remuneration 
of executives in similar positions in comparable companies, and individual performance. Further 
increases, if any, over the next two years would be capped at the higher of 5% or RPI, unless there 
is a significant change in role or responsibilities. 
Maximum 
opportunity
Not applicable.
Performance 
measures 
None, although performance of both the company and the individual is taken into account when 
determining an appropriate level of base salary each year.
Implementation On 1 February 2015, Executive Directors’ salaries were increased by 1.6%, being the change in RPI 
over the preceding 12 months.
Other employees The approach to setting base salary increases elsewhere in the Group takes into account 
economic factors, competitive market rates, roles, skills, experience and individual performance. 
The increase in wages and salaries for the Group as a whole is reported in note 23 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Benefits and 
allowances
Objective and link 
to strategy
› Helps to recruit, reward and retain. 
› Reflects competitive market level, role, skills, experience and individual contribution.
Operation Include cash allowances and non-cash benefits such as healthcare, life insurance and car 
allowances. Allowances and benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Maximum 
opportunity
The provision and level of allowances and benefits are competitive and appropriate in the 
context of the local market.
Performance 
measures 
None.
Implementation Benefits for the 2015 financial year are reported in the total remuneration table on page 41. 
There are no changes to these in the 2016 financial year.
Other employees Allowances and other benefits for employees reflect the local labour market in which they are 
based. 34 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual bonus
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Motivate achievement of annual goals and objectives.
› Provide focus on key financial metrics.
› Reward individual contribution to the success of the company.
Operation 70% of total potential bonus is based on financial performance of the Group. The Committee 
establishes threshold, target and maximum levels of performance for different levels of pay-out 
with sliding scales in between. The remaining 30% is based on performance against predetermined 
individual targets, set from year to year. Annual bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings. 
Subject to performance criteria being met, the annual bonus will be paid in cash up to 60% of 
the maximum entitlement of the individual and the balance, up to 40%, will be satisfied in shares, 
which must be held for a minimum of three years from the date of award.
Annual bonuses are discretionary and the Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to 
payments if it believes exceptional factors warrant doing so. Annual bonuses awarded in respect 
of the 2016 financial year and subsequent years will be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Maximum 
opportunity
For all Executive Directors the maximum opportunity is 100% of base salary. There is 60% pay-out 
for performance at target. Performance significantly in excess of target is required to achieve the 
maximum award.
Performance 
measures 
30% of performance criteria is based on individual objectives and 70% on profit before tax and 
non-recurring items for the financial year. The target for profit performance is set taking account 
of the annual budget and market consensus.
Implementation Profit before tax and non-recurring items for the 2015 financial year was £9.0m, resulting in 2.9% 
of the maximum potential bonus being payable. The individual targets were all achieved, resulting 
in 30.0% of the maximum potential bonus being payable. The total annual bonus for the 2015 
financial year was therefore 32.9% of maximum total potential bonus.
A description of the individual objectives set for the 2015 financial year is given within Part 1 of this 
Report. New financial performance and individual targets have been set for the 2016 financial year.
Other 
employees
A range of cash-based annual incentives are offered in the form of bonuses, profit-shares or 
sales commissions plans. The Harvey Nash management team will award annual incentives after 
consideration of the most appropriate reward structure and targets for the employee and their 
role.  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 35
Long-term 
incentive 
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Designed to help recruit, reward and retain.
› Drive long-term earnings and share price growth and value creation.
› Align interests of executives and shareholders.
› Encourage long-term shareholding and commitment to the company.
› Link corporate performance to management’s long-term reward in a flexible way.
Operation Harvey Nash Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The 2015 financial year will be the second year of operation of the PSP. Share awards will vest 
following a three-year performance period subject to the achievement of compound average 
earnings per share (‘eps’) growth targets. Sustaining eps growth is a key performance metric 
that will drive long-term shareholder value creation. Targets have been set by reference to 
the Company’s six-year strategic plan, and analysts’ forecasts and reflect strong and sustained 
performance for maximum awards.
Eps is based on adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders of the company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary 
shares purchased by the Company and held in trust. Earnings will normally be stated before non-
recurring items, subject to the discretion of the Committee.
Eps growth is calculated using the point-to-point method. This method compares the adjusted 
eps in the Company’s accounts for the financial year ended prior to the grant date with the 
adjusted eps for the financial year ending three years later and calculates the implicit compound 
annual growth rate (‘cagr’) over the period.
The Remuneration Committee retains the right, in exceptional circumstances, to reclaim any 
awards based on financial misstatement and/or the misconduct of an individual through means 
deemed appropriate to those specific circumstances.
Harvey Nash Share Incentive Plan
All employees of the Group (with at least three months’ service) have the opportunity to acquire 
shares in the Group via the Harvey Nash Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’). The shares are then held in 
trust on behalf of the employee. Partnership shares may be withdrawn from trust at any time by 
the individual and retained or sold.
› If shares are withdrawn within three years, tax will normally be due on their value at that time.
› If withdrawn after three but before five years, there will be no tax on any gain in value since 
acquisition.
› After five or more years, no tax at all will be payable on the shares.
Maximum 
opportunity
Harvey Nash Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Awards will be made up to 100% of salary in the normal course of business. In exceptional 
circumstances, the scheme rules permit awards of up to 200%.
Harvey Nash Share Incentive Plan
Employees may purchase via deduction from salary up to a maximum value of £1,500 of shares 
in each tax year (or 10% of salary if less). This can be done via a single deduction or deductions 
each month during the tax year. 
Performance 
measures 
Harvey Nash Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Shares vest based on eps performance with 100% vesting at a cagr of 15% in eps and 20% of the 
maximum award vesting at a cagr of 7.5%. Vesting in between these levels will be on a straight-
line basis and below 7.5% cagr no shares will vest. Shares vested under the scheme must be 
retained for two years post vesting, and full dividends accrue during this period. 
Implementation The first awards under the PSP, worth 100% of base salary, were granted on 3 July 2014, with a 
vesting date of 3 July 2017. Following the announcement of annual results for the 2015 financial 
year, the Committee intends to make a second award worth 100% of base salary. 36 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Long-term 
incentive 
(continued)
Other 
employees
Harvey Nash 2005 Company Share Option Scheme (‘CSOP’)
Other employees receive awards in share options under the CSOP. Awards vest based on three-
year cumulative eps growth over the vesting period in excess of RPI +3%. The basis of eps 
measurement is the same as the PSP plan for Directors. Individual awards are set by taking into 
account:
› the face value of individual awards at the time of grant, assuming that performance targets are 
met in full
› market practice for comparable companies and market assessments of total remuneration from 
our independent advisers.
Options are awarded based on merit and are only awarded for outstanding contributions to the 
Group.
Harvey Nash Share Incentive Plan
Employees may join the Share Incentive Plan after three months of service with the Group. 
Harvey Nash Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The PSP is designed for Executive Directors but may be used for other top-tier management if 
appropriate. 
Pension
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Help to recruit and retain.
› Recognise long-term commitment to the Company.
Operation Pension contributions are made directly into the Directors’ personal pension plans.
Maximum 
opportunity
15% of basic salary.
Performance 
measures 
There are no performance measures. 
Implementation In the 2015 financial year, pension contributions of 15% of basic salary were made into 
Directors’ pension schemes. In accordance with the policy, pension contributions will remain 
at 15% of base salary in the 2016 financial year. Where an executive exceeds the prevailing 
tax-deductible pension allowance, the Company will pay cash in lieu net of employers’ National 
Insurance contributions. Albert Ellis took advantage of this provision in the financial year.
Other 
employees
Harvey Nash Scottish Widows Pension Scheme
The Harvey Nash Scottish Widows Pension Scheme is a defined contribution pension plan open 
to all employees. From 1 January 2014, all employees who have been employed by the Company 
for at least three months will be auto-enrolled into the scheme. The employees may choose 
to opt out but will be automatically re-enrolled at three-year intervals. Harvey Nash will make 
contributions to the pension scheme based on the length of enrolment of the employee varying 
from 50% of the employer National Insurance savings to 5% of basic salary.  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 37
Shareholding 
policy
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Drive long-term earnings and share price growth and value creation.
› Align interests of executives and shareholders.
› Encourage long-term shareholding and commitment to the Company.
Operation Full-time Executive Directors should aim to hold at least one year’s annual base salary in shares 
within a five-year period of joining the Group.
Maximum 
opportunity
Not applicable. 
Performance 
measures 
Not applicable.
Implementation The Directors’ shareholdings are set out on page 44 within Part 3 of this Report. All Executive 
Directors met this test for the 2015 financial year.
Other 
employees
Not applicable.
Provisions 
of previous 
policy that will 
continue to 
apply
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Help to recruit, reward and retain.
› Drive long-term earnings and share price growth and value creation.
› Align interests of executives and shareholders.
› Encourage long-term shareholding and commitment to the Company.
› Link corporate performance to management’s long-term reward in a flexible way.
Operation Harvey Nash 2005 Company Share Option Scheme (‘CSOP’)
Previously, Directors were awarded options under the CSOP. This has been replaced by the PSP 
for Executive Directors and it is not planned to use the CSOP scheme in the foreseeable future 
for Directors.
Maximum 
opportunity
Not applicable. 
Performance 
measures 
Harvey Nash’s compounded annual growth in earnings per share over the performance period 
must exceed the compounded annual growth in the RPI by a minimum of 3%. This performance 
criterion was chosen to incentivise the maximisation of shareholders’ return. If unforeseen 
circumstances cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that the performance criterion 
has become unfair or impractical in the circumstances, it may, at its discretion, amend the 
performance criterion. 
Implementation Share options issued to the Executive Directors in June 2012 and due to vest in June 2015 did 
not meet the performance criterion when tested in respect of the three financial years ending 
on 31 January 2015. In accordance with the terms of the CSOP, the Company has the ability to 
extend the performance period by one year which the Remuneration Committee has decided 
to do. The Executive Directors have one other tranche of share options outstanding, granted in 
June 2013, which are due to vest in June 2016, subject to the attainment of the performance 
criterion. Share options awarded under the CSOP to the Executive Directors are detailed on page 
44 within Part 3 of this Report.
Other 
employees
Other employees will continue to be awarded share options from the CSOP for exceptional 
performance. 38 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Non-Executive Directors.
Fees
Objective and 
link to strategy
› Helps to recruit, reward and retain.
› Reflects competitive market level, role, skills, experience and individual contribution.
Operation Reviewed annually for the following year taking into account general economic and market 
conditions, the level of increases made across the Company as a whole, and the remuneration of 
Non-Executive Directors in similar positions in comparable companies. Any increases are capped 
at the higher of 5% or RPI.
Maximum 
opportunity
Not applicable.
Performance 
measures 
None.
Implementation The Chairman was paid £100,000 during the 2015 financial year. All other Non-Executive 
Directors received a fee of £42,000. In line with the policy, from 1 February 2016 the Chairman’s 
remuneration and the Non-Executive Directors’ fees were increased by 1.6%, being the change 
in the RPI over the preceding 12 months. In addition, if a Non-Executive Director chaired a sub-
committee or performed the role of Senior Independent Director, an additional payment of 
£5,000 per role was paid. There is no change to this in the 2016 financial year.
Shareholding
Objective and 
link to strategy
› To ensure independence of the Non-Executive Directors is maintained.
› To safeguard the governance of the Group.
Operation Non-Executive Directors are permitted but not obliged to hold shares. 
Maximum 
opportunity
Not applicable. 
Performance 
measures 
None.
Implementation The Chairman holds 10,000 shares and Kevin Thomas purchased 10,000 shares in the 2015 
financial year.
Tom Crawford, a founder and Non-Executive Director until the close of last year’s AGM, owned 
4,536,467 shares during his period of directorship in the 2015 financial year.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
Kevin Thomas joined the Board on 1 May 2014. He is remunerated in line with the other Non-Executive Directors. No sign-on payment 
or share buy-outs were made. The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration.
Element Policy
Base salary and benefits Harvey Nash operates in a highly competitive sector. The Committee’s approach to recruitment 
remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role. Any new 
Executive Director’s package would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, 
as those of the existing Executive Directors.
Pension 15% of base salary. The Committee reserves the right to adjust contributions by a maximum of 10% if it 
feels it is warranted based on economic and competitive factors. 
Annual bonus Up to 100% of base salary based on performance. Annual incentive plans are discretionary and the 
Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to payments if it believes exceptional factors warrant 
doing so.
Long-term incentives Any new Executive Director’s package would be expected to include the same long-term incentive 
structure as those of existing Executive Directors. 
Sign-on payments/ 
recruitment awards
Harvey Nash’s policy is not to pay sign-on payments above and beyond the normal buy-out policy to 
replace rewards forfeited or payments forgone. 
Share buy-outs/ 
replacement awards
Where it is necessary to ‘buy out’ an individual’s awards from a previous employer, the Committee will 
seek to match the expected value of the awards by granting awards that vest over a similar period, 
reducing the quantum if the new awards are subject to performance conditions that are less stretching 
than those on the awards given up.
Relocation policies Harvey Nash will cover reasonable costs of relocation for Directors. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 39
Service contracts and payment for loss of office
Director
Date of contract / letter of 
appointment
Unexpired term
Notice period by Company or 
Director
Executive
Albert Ellis 01.02.2001 Continuous 12 months
Simon Wassall 17.10.2005 Continuous 12 months
Richard Ashcroft 14.11.2005 Continuous 12 months
Non-Executive
Julie Baddeley 20.06.2013 Continuous 6 months
David Bezem 01.06.2013 Continuous 6 months
Ian Davies 26.09.2013 Continuous 6 months
Kevin Thomas 01.05.2014 Continuous 6 months
Tom Crawford retired as a Non-Executive Director on 3 July 2014. No termination payment was made in accordance with Harvey Nash’s 
policy on termination payments for good leavers who serve their full notice period. Margot Katz retired from the Board on 3 July 2014, 
having completed her three-year term as Group Director of Talent. Accordingly, Margot was not required to serve notice.
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Group’s policy on payment for loss of office in respect of Directors 
who leave in accordance with the terms of their contract (‘good leavers’) and any discretion available to the Committee.
Element Approach Committee discretion
Base salary benefits 
and pension
Executive Directors are remunerated for the 12 months of 
their notice period in accordance with their normal contractual 
terms. 
Non-Executive Directors are remunerated for the six months of 
their notice period in accordance with their normal contractual 
terms. 
The Committee may agree a payment in 
lieu of notice if they consider it to be in the 
interests of shareholders for the Director 
not to serve the full notice period. 
Annual bonus Annual bonus – for the purposes of any annual bonus 
entitlement, if the Executive Director is still employed on the 
bonus payment date (including if under notice, if such notice 
was given after the end of the performance year), a bonus will 
be paid as normal. No payment will be made if the employment 
is terminated before the end of the performance period or if 
the executive is not employed on the bonus payment date. 
Deferred share bonus – any awarded but unvested deferred 
share awards will be reduced on a time pro rata basis and paid 
on the vesting date.
The Committee has discretion to negotiate 
the annual bonus payable based on the 
individual performance of the Director and 
expected full-year result. 
The Committee also has the discretion to 
substitute unvested deferred share awards 
for a commensurate cash alternative if felt 
appropriate. 
Long-term incentive 
– PSP
Upon cessation of employment the Director’s awards shall 
cease to be capable of call and the awards will lapse 30 days 
later.
The Committee has discretion to allow the 
call of unvested awards on an accelerated 
basis subject to a reduction in the number of 
shares that may be acquired. Alternatively, 
the Committee may allow the Director to 
maintain the awards until vesting and permit 
their call within six months of the vesting 
date, subject to a reduction in the number 
of shares that may be acquired. 
Long-term incentive – 
CSOP
Any long-term incentive awards that are in at least the second 
year of the performance period will vest after the end of the 
performance period on a pro-rated basis. If the Executive 
Director leaves during the first year of the performance period, 
the award will lapse. 
The award of long-term incentives in respect 
of options under the CSOP is entirely at the 
discretion of the Committee up to the levels 
defined in the Long-term incentive policy 
for normal service. 
Non-Executive and Executive appointments will be terminated immediately with no compensation for loss of office if they are terminated 
for cause (‘bad leavers’). Bad leavers will be remunerated in the form of their base salary and benefits for services performed to the date 
of termination. All outstanding unvested shares will lapse; no cash or deferred share bonuses will be paid.  40 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Illustrations of application of salary and bonus policy
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows for the 2016 financial year.
Element Minimum Threshold On-target Maximum
Albert Ellis Fixed £407,748 £407,748 £407,748 £407,748
Annual variable – – £230,429 £384,048
Multiple variable – £7,848 £11,733 £27,713
Total £407,748 £415,596 £649,910 £819,509
Simon Wassall Fixed £278,861 £278,861 £278,861 £278,861
Annual variable – – £154,716 £257,861
Multiple variable – £5,326 £7,962 £18,691
Total £278,861 £284,187 £441,539 £555,413
Richard 
Ashcroft
Fixed £207,524 £207,524 £207,524 £207,524
Annual variable – – £122,895 £192,024
Multiple variable – £3,966 £5,929 £13,919
Total £207,524 £211,490 £336,348 £413,467
Notes 
1. ‘Fixed’ represents total remuneration that is not subject to performance measures. ‘Annual variable’ represents amounts awarded under the annual 
bonus for the financial year 2016. ‘Multiple variable’ represents options issued under the CSOP which are due to vest on 31 January 2016 and are 
subject to a performance period spanning multiple periods. Within each of the scenarios above, being the annual bonus scenarios as set by the 
Remuneration Committee for the 2016 financial year, the corresponding vesting result is calculated for those options in issue. Tax rate and RPI are 
assumed to remain constant. The vesting result of these options is calculated using the closing share price on 31 January 2015 of 79.5p less the 
option value of 70.1p.
2. 70% of the annual bonus is based on financial targets. Nothing will be paid until the ‘threshold’ is reached. The bonus increases on a straight-line basis 
until ‘target’ performance is achieved at which 60% of this component of the bonus is payable. 100% of this component of the bonus is payable if 
‘maximum’ performance is reached. 30% of the annual bonus is based on individual targets which vest at the discretion of the Committee based on its 
assessment of performance against the objectives set. Vesting of individual performance awards has been assumed to increase in line with vesting of 
the financial performance award. All percentages are based on base salary.
3. The first awards were made under the PSP scheme in July 2014. However, as the awards have a three-year performance period, vesting will not oc-
cur until July 2017 and therefore no amounts in respect of the scheme have been included in the scenarios.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group in developing policy
In accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, available on the Group’s website, the Committee’s remit does not include 
remuneration matters below that of the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors. However, before the remuneration packages 
for the Harvey Nash Executive Directors are set for the year ahead, the Committee considers general pay trends in the market and the 
level of pay increases across the Group as a whole. This helps to ensure that executive remuneration packages are reviewed in the context 
of the wider organisation and that they are aligned to the Group’s strategy, competitiveness and performance of the business and other 
matters affecting employees.
The Group also conducts an Employee Engagement Survey to find out how people feel about working for Harvey Nash, what they think 
about the work they do, the opportunities they have and the rewards they get (including a section on pay and benefits). The Group 
uses all of this feedback to inform decisions on people-related activities, resources and investment, local management action plans, 
and wider business unit and organisational strategies. It is the Group’s intention to continue to engage with employees and employee 
representatives in this way in the future.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Group consults regularly with shareholders on all matters affecting its strategy and business operations. As part of that process, we 
also engage with shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration. 
The Committee continues to be aware of and respond to best practice guidelines of shareholders and their representative bodies.
 
100% 98% 62% 50% 
36% 
47% 
2% 2% 
3% 
Minimum Threshold Target Maximum 
Multiple variable 
Annual variable 
Fixed  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 41
Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration
This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Company’s remuneration policy for Directors has been implemented 
during the financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors
The remuneration of Executive Directors showing the breakdown between elements and comparative figures are shown below. Figures 
provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Executive Director
Base salary 
/ fees
Taxable 
benefits
Annual 
bonus 
(1)
Deferred 
share 
award 
(1)
Pension 
contributions Total
Full-time Directors
Albert Ellis 2015 £375,667 £25,117 £123,749 – £56,350 £580,883
2014 £350,000 £24,357 £210,000 £35,893 £52,500 £672,750
Simon Wassall 2015 £252,233 £22,217 £83,089 – £37,835 £395,374
2014 £235,000 £21,657 £141,000 £24,100 £35,250 £457,007
Richard Ashcroft 2015 £187,833 £16,917 £61,875 – £28,175 £294,800
2014 £175,000 £16,157 £105,000 £17,947 £26,250 £340,354
Part-time Directors
Margot Katz 
(2)
2015 £50,000 – – – – £50,000
2014 £100,000 – £28,000 – – £128,000
1. The outcome of the annual bonus for the 2015 financial year is detailed on page 43. The cash element of the annual bonus award is capped at a 
maximum of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity. Any remaining balance is settled in shares, which must be held for a minimum of three years 
from the date of the award. These are disclosed within the table above as the ‘Deferred share award’. Shares were awarded to the Executive Direc-
tors under the PSP, which contains a three-year performance criterion as set out on page 35 in Part 2 of this Report. No CSOP share options were 
issued to the Executive Directors during the 2015 financial year. Details of the PSP shares awarded and CSOP options in issue are disclosed on 
page 44 within Part 3 of the Report.
2. Margot Katz stepped down from the Board as a part-time Executive Director on 3 July 2014. Margot acts as a Talent Consultant for a number of 
businesses including Harvey Nash. Incremental services provided by Margot to the Group during her period of directorship in the year were paid 
for on an ad hoc basis and totalled £41,449. The additional services provided included coaching days for the senior team and bespoke talent con-
sulting services to key clients. All additional services and payments are subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee. Margot continues to 
be engaged by the Group to provide talent consulting services since she stepped down from the Group Board on 3 July 2014. 
3. Shares were granted to the Executive Directors in the year under the PSP and will vest on 31 January 2017 if the performance criterion is met. No 
share options previously awarded under the CSOP vested during the year as the performance criterion was not met. Further details of scheme 
interests awarded are set out on page 44. 42 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between elements and comparative figures are shown below. 
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Non-Executive Director Basic fees Additional fees Total fees
Julie Baddeley 
(1)
2015 £100,000 – £100,000
2014 £79,462 £1,938 £81,400
Ian Kirkpatrick 
(2)
2015 – – –
2014 £39,167 – £39,167
Ian Davies 
(3)
2015 £42,000 £12,917 £54,917
2014 £42,000 £11,729 £53,729
Tom Crawford 
(4)
2015 £17,957 – £17,957
2014 £42,000 – £42,000
David Bezem 
(5)
2015 £42,000 £2,083 £44,083
2014 £28,000 – £28,000
Kevin Thomas 
(6)
2015 £31,500 – £31,500
2014 – – –
1. Julie Baddeley was appointed as Chairman on 20 June 2013. 
2. Ian Kirkpatrick retired at the Annual General Meeting on 20 June 2013. 
3. Ian Davies was appointed Senior Independent Director on 20 June 2013 and Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 26 September 2013 
until 1 September 2014. 
4. Tom Crawford retired as a Non-Executive Director on 3 July 2014.
5. David Bezem joined as a Non-Executive Director on 20 June 2013 and was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 
1 September 2014.
6. Kevin Thomas joined as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
Additional details in respect of single total figure table (audited)
The Company provided Executive Directors with the following benefits during the financial year.
Executive Director Car or cash allowance 
(1)
Life, disability and health insurance 
Albert Ellis
2015 £23,617 £1,500
2014 £22,700 £1,657
Simon Wassall
2015 £20,917 £1,500
2014 £20,000 £1,657
Richard Ashcroft
2015 £15,417 £1,500
2014 £14,500 £1,657
1. An increase to the car allowance of £1,000, effective 1 March 2014, was approved by the Committee in the 2014 financial year. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 43
Outcome of the annual bonus for the 2015 financial year (audited)
The performance targets, actual performance achievement and resulting bonus payments are summarised below.
Performance 
measures
Weighting Targets Actual
% of 
target 
satisfied
Albert Ellis Simon Wassall Richard Ashcroft
Maximum 
opportunity
Bonus 
receivable 
Maximum 
opportunity
Bonus 
receivable
Maximum 
opportunity
Bonus 
receivable
Profit 
before 
tax 
(1)
70%
4% – 
£9.0m
60% – 
£9.8m
£9,002,882 4.2% £262,967 £11,049 £176,563 £7,419 £131,483 £5,525
100% – 
£10.2m
Individual 
objectives 
(2)
30%
One-
third per 
objective 
achieved
All 
achieved
100.0% 112,700 112,700 75,670 75,670 56,350 56,350
1. For the purposes of Directors’ bonuses, profit before tax is measured before non-recurring items. Non-recurring items in the 2015 financial 
year were £1.3m and related to the restructuring and strategic review of Nash Technologies (£0.6m), the restructuring of Norwegian operations 
(£0.5m), and the acquisition of Beaumont KK in Japan (£0.2m).
2. Individual objectives are set year to year by the Remuneration Committee, as set out in Part 2 of the Report. The objectives set in respect of the 
2015 financial year are described within Part 1 of the Report. The Committee views the disclosure of the detail of the actual performance targets 
as commercially sensitive. In the year all Executive Directors achieved each of their individual objectives set by the Remuneration Committee.
Total pension entitlements (audited)
Directors receive pension payments directly into their personal pension plans. The Group does not operate any defined benefit pension 
schemes for Executive Directors. In the 2015 financial year, pension contributions of 15% of basic salary were made into Directors’ 
pension schemes, except as noted below. There was no increase to pension contributions as a percentage of base salary during the 
2015 financial year. For reference, the following payments were made.
Executive Directors Pension contributions 2015 Pension contributions 2014
Albert Ellis   £56,350 
(1)
£52,500
Simon Wassall £37,835 £35,250
Richard Ashcroft £28,175 £26,250
Margot Katz – –
1. Where an executive exceeds the prevailing tax-deductible pension allowance, the Company will pay cash in lieu net of employers’ National 
Insurance contributions. Albert Ellis took advantage of this provision in the financial year, with total cash of £5,746 paid. 44 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Scheme interests awarded including those in the 2015 financial year (audited)
The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards where vesting will be determined according to the achievement 
of performance measures that will be tested in future reporting periods. The performance measures for the schemes detailed below are 
outlined on pages 35 and 36, within Part 2 of this Report. No long-term incentives vested in the 2015 financial year.
Executive 
Director 
(1)
Initial 
performance 
period 
(2)
Date of 
grant
Earliest 
exercise 
date 
(2)
Expiry 
date 
Share 
price on 
grant 
date
Exercise 
price
Number 
at 1 
February 
2014
Granted 
in year 
(3)
Number 
at 31 
January 
2015
Harvey Nash 2005 Company Share Option Scheme (‘CSOP’)
Albert Ellis FY2013 – FY2015 01.06.12 01.06.15 01.06.22 51.5p 51.5p 169,903 – 169,903 
FY2014 – FY2016 20.06.13 20.06.16 20.06.23 70.1p 70.1p 124,822 – 124,822 
Simon Wassall FY2013 – FY2015 01.06.12 01.06.15 01.06.22 51.5p 51.5p 114,078 – 114,078 
FY2014 – FY2016 20.06.13 20.06.16 20.06.23 70.1p 70.1p 83,809 – 83,809 
Richard Ashcroft FY2013 – FY2015 01.06.12 01.06.15 01.06.22 51.5p 51.5p 84,951 – 84,951 
FY2014 – FY2016 20.06.13 20.06.16 20.06.23 70.1p 70.1p 62,411 – 62,411 
Harvey Nash Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Albert Ellis FY 2015 – FY2017 03.07.14 03.07.17 03.07.24 108.5p – – 346,236 346,236 
Simon Wassall FY 2015 – FY2017 03.07.14 03.07.17 03.07.24 108.5p – – 232,472 232,472 
Richard Ashcroft FY 2015 – FY2017 03.07.14 03.07.17 03.07.24 108.5p – – 173,117 173,117 
1. Margot Katz held no scheme interests during the period of her directorship in the financial year.
2. The Committee may extend the three-year performance period in respect of options granted under the CSOP by one year at its discretion. The 
Committee has exercised this discretion with respect to the options granted in June 2012 such that the performance period is extended to four 
years ending 31 January 2016 and the earliest date of exercise is extended to 1 June 2016.
3. Share awards were made under the PSP based on 100% of base salary during the 2015 financial year, representing the maximum award possible in 
the normal course of business. The prevailing share price at the date of award was 108.5p. The performance measure and resulting award vesting 
are set out on page 35 within Part 2 of the Report. 
Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Payments for loss of office
No payments were made for loss of office in the year.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Directors’ share interests and where applicable achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below. 
 
Director
Shareholding Interests
Total 
interests 
held at 
year-end
Shares 
required to 
be held (% 
salary)
Number 
of shares 
required to 
hold 
(1)
Number of 
beneficially 
owned 
shares
Shareholding 
requirement 
met? 
Interests with 
performance conditions
Options Shares
Executive Directors
Albert Ellis 100% 377,798 805,613 Yes 294,725 346,236 1,446,574
Simon Wassall 100% 253,664 276,217 Yes 197,887 232,472 706,576
Richard Ashcroft 100% 188,899 237,058 Yes 147,362 173,117 557,537
Non-Executive Directors
Julie Baddeley n/a n/a 10,000 n/a – – 10,000
Kevin Thomas n/a n/a 10,000 n/a – – 10,000
1. As stated in the Policy Report within Part 2, the Executive Directors are expected to aim to hold at least one year’s annual base salary in shares within a 
five-year period of joining the Group. The average share price during the 2015 financial year of 99.4p has been applied for the purposes of this illustration.
2. Margot Katz beneficially held 6,369 shares and Tom Crawford beneficially held 4,536,467 shares throughout the period of their directorships this 
year. No other share interests were held. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 45
Share performance graph 
The graph below shows the value of £100 invested in the shares of Harvey Nash Group plc compared to the FTSE Small Cap and FTSE 
Fledgling indices over the five-year period to 31 January 2015. The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the 
movement in capital value and the reinvestment of dividend income. The Group has been a constituent of the FTSE Fledgling Index 
throughout the period. The Group has also been a constituent of the FTSE SmallCap Index on occasions throughout the period. The 
Remuneration Committee considers that these indices are appropriate benchmarks for these reasons.
Chief Executive remuneration over the past six years
The table below sets out the Chief Executive’s remuneration package over the past six years.
Year Name Single figure of total 
remuneration
Bonus pay-out (as % 
maximum opportunity)
Long-term incentive as a % 
of maximum opportunity 
(1)
2015 Albert Ellis £580,883 32.9% n/a
2014 Albert Ellis £672,750 70.0% n/a
2013 Albert Ellis £725,332 88.6% n/a
2012 Albert Ellis £724,204 100.0% n/a
2011 Albert Ellis £472,321 55.0% nil
2010 Albert Ellis £501,471 91.0% n/a
1. 250,000 options were issued in 2008 under the CSOP and were subject to a three-year performance condition. The options failed to vest at the 
end of the 2011 financial year as the performance criterion was not met. 169,903 options were issued in 2012 under the CSOP. The performance 
period for these options was extended for one additional year by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the rules of the CSOP. There-
fore the performance criterion will be tested at the end of the 2016 financial year. The one-year extension to the initial performance period is 
referred to on page 31, within Part 1 of the Report.
Percentage change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executive’s pay (including salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual 
bonus) with the wider employee population.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus
2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change
Chief Executive (£’000) 376 350 7% 25 24 4% 124 246 (50)%
Total Employee basic pay (£’000) 42,787 42,081 2% 981 1,027 (4%) 12,629 12,480 1%
Number of employees 862 819 5% 862 819 5% 862 819 5%
Average Employee pay (£’000) 50 51 (2%) 1 1 nil 15 15 nil
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the financial year and previous financial year compared with other 
disbursements from profit. 
Significant distributions
Disbursements from profit in 
FY2015
Disbursements from profit in 
FY2014
Percentage change 
on prior year
£’000
% total 
disbursements 
(1)
£’000
% total 
disbursements 
(1)
%
Dividends paid 2,428 0.4% 2,225 0.4% 0.1%
Executive pay 1,321 0.2% 1,629 0.3% (0.1)%
Non-Executive pay 250 0.0% 228 0.0% 0.0%
Employee pay 55,749 8.1% 49,746 7.1% 0.9%
1. ‘Total disbursements’ is the aggregate of cost of sales, operating expenses, finance costs and dividends paid in the year.
 
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
£400
£450
£500
Jan-10 Jul-10 Jan-11 Jul-11 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15
Harvey Nash FTSE Small Cap FTSE Fledgling 46 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year 
Executive Directors
Salary
The base salaries for the 2016 financial year are set out below.
Executive Director 2015 2016 % change
Albert Ellis £375,667 £384,048 2.2%
Simon Wassall £252,233 £257,681 2.2%
Richard Ashcroft £187,833 £192,024 2.2%
Margot Katz £50,000 n/a n/a
The increase to base salaries of 1.6%, effective 1 February 2015, was agreed by the Committee and is in accordance with the cap outlined 
on page 33, within the Part 2 of the Report. The overall increase of 2.2% on a financial year basis reflects the impact of a previous increase 
of 8.0% agreed by the Committee, which was effective from 1 March 2014. Accordingly, the total base salaries of the Executive Directors 
in financial year 2015 includes one month at a lower base salary than for the remainder of the financial year.
Annual bonus 
A summary of the bonus opportunity for the 2016 financial year and the division of the opportunity between performance measures is 
set out below.
Bonus opportunity Performance measure weighting (% award) 
(2)
Threshold
(% of salary) 
Target 
(1)
(% of salary) 
Maximum
(% of salary)
Underlying profit before tax Individual objectives
nil 60% 100% 70% 30%
1. The percentage of maximum opportunity awarded for on-target performance is 60% for all Executive Directors.
2. A description of the performance measures is provided on page 34 within Part 2 of the Report and discussed further on pages 30 and 31 within 
Part 1 of the Report.
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Details of the maximum long-term incentive awards for Executive Directors along with the performance measures and targets for the 
awards to be made in the 2016 financial year are set out below.
Type of 
award
Maximum 
opportunity
(% of salary)
Performance measures Performance target Vesting level
PSP 100%
Compound annual growth 
rate of eps over a three-year 
performance period
Cagr of eps – threshold is 7.5% 
and maximum 15%
Straight-line vesting between 
20% at a cagr eps of 7.5% and 
100% at 15% 
Pension
Details of pension contributions at 15% of base salary for the 2016 financial year are set out below.
Executive Director Pension contribution
Albert Ellis 
(1)
£57,607
Simon Wassall £38,652
Richard Ashcroft £28,804
1. Where an executive exceeds the prevailing tax-deductible pension allowance, the Company will pay cash in lieu net of employers’ National Insur-
ance contributions. Albert Ellis is expected to take advantage of this provision, with total cash of £17,607 expected to be paid in lieu of pension 
contributions for the 2016 financial year. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC REMUNERATION REPORT / 47
Non-Executive Directors
The following table sets out the fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year. An increase of 1.6% was approved as set 
out on page 38 within Part 2 of the Report.
            2014 From 1 February 2015        % change
Approved by the Executive Directors:
Base fee £42,000 £42,672 1.6%
Committee Chair / Senior Independent Director £5,000 £5,000 –
Approved by the Remuneration Committee: Chairman £100,000 £101,600 1.6%
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below sets out actual voting in respect of the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the previous financial year 2014. Harvey Nash has always been committed to appropriate and clear remuneration structures 
and in the Directors’ opinion the proportion of shareholders that voted in favour of the Report and Policy last year demonstrates this.
Resolution to approve:
Date of 
AGM
Votes for % Votes against %
Votes 
withheld
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
2014
3 July 2014 29,697,196 99.71% 85,140 0.29% 15,250
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 2014 3 July 2014 27,473,436 99.77% 62,650 0.23% 2,261,500 48 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC AUDIT COMMITEE REPORT
Audit Committee Report
For the year ended 31 January 2015
Dear Shareholders
In addition to our core audit responsibilities, the Committee had a busy year conducting the external audit tender process.  
I spoke with a number of key stakeholders and regulators about the market forces for greater competition within the UK audit market.
I invited a number of firms to express a written interest in providing the external audit service, including several firms outside the Big 
Four. After review of all written submissions, the Committee invited three firms to tender on a fee-blind basis, as our focus was entirely 
on audit quality. The firm chosen by the panel of Audit Committee members and two Executive Directors was Deloitte LLP, and the 
Board accepted this recommendation, allowing Deloitte LLP to be appointed to the casual vacancy arising on the resignation of PwC. I 
should like to record our appreciation for many years of service by PwC.
We have worked quickly with the new firm to develop the audit plan for the current year. They have invested a significant amount of time 
in this first year audit, and their performance will be fully reviewed later in 2015.
Committee meetings 
Our terms of reference require that we meet at least twice a year with the Group’s senior financial management and the External 
Auditor to review the interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies of the Group, its internal control procedures, and 
compliance with accounting standards. In addition, we review forthcoming regulatory changes and proposed standards to assess their 
impact on the Group. Our terms of reference can be found within the Investors section of the Group’s website.
The members of the Committee during the year were myself as Chair, David Bezem and Kevin Thomas (appointed 1 May 2014). 
I reported after each meeting to the Board on the principal matters discussed, to ensure that all Directors were kept informed of our work. 
I also made myself available to any Director who wished to discuss particular items in greater detail.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year to 31 January 2015, with full attendance at each meeting. The Chairman of the 
Board, the Group Finance Director and senior financial management were also often invited and regularly attended.
During the year we have:
• reviewed the financial statements and financial reporting judgements contained within those statements for the Group and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance
• reviewed the Group’s internal control system and risk controls
• reviewed the reports and recommendations from the Group’s internal audit function
• continued to make ourselves available to hear any concerns from staff, in line with the Group’s whistleblowing policy
• monitored the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor
• conducted a formal external audit tender and made a recommendation to the Board on the appointment, terms of engagement and 
remuneration of the External Auditor
• reported to the Board any matters requiring its attention
• reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process
• reviewed the key accounting judgements and estimates related to the financial statements.
Annual Report review
We have considered whether the Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it 
provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy. We 
focused on the significant issues related to the financial statements, including the presentation of the key accounting judgements and 
estimates, which are considered overleaf. We also challenged the consistency of accounting policies with those presented in the financial 
statements and considered whether the words in the Strategic Report reflected the performance of the Group fairly. In forming its 
conclusion, the Committee also considered the overall governance process in place for the preparation and review of the Annual Report 
and financial statements. These include:
• management of the overall governance process is performed by the Group’s senior financial management, who have appropriate skill, 
experience and qualifications in preparing and delivering such reporting
• the completion of a detailed disclosure template by each component of the Group, the design of which is governed by the Group’s 
senior financial management
• comprehensive reviews performed at different levels of management to ensure consistency and balance
• the setting of a review timetable well in advance and that permits sufficient time for such review, including any resulting challenge and 
resolution of matters
• preliminary reviews of the draft Annual Report by the Group Board. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC AUDIT COMMITEE REPORT  / 49
Overall, we considered that as a whole the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The Audit Committee pays particular attention to significant issues in relation to the financial statements and how they are addressed. 
The significant issues are important by virtue of their impact on the Group’s results and the remuneration of senior management.
The following significant issues, including critical accounting judgements and estimates, were considered by the Committee. These 
issues are further described within note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill
The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill by reviewing an impairment test report prepared by management. The report 
outlined the value in use calculated for each of the Group’s cash-generating units. It was noted that the assumptions applied were 
consistent with the long-term strategic plan approved by the Board. The Committee also challenged the audit work undertaken to assess 
those assumptions.
The Committee was satisfied that the assumptions applied were appropriate, sufficiently disclosed within the notes to the financial 
statements, and the carrying value of goodwill supportable.
Revenue recognition
Judgement applied in respect of recognition of revenue is significant in two key areas: cut-off and presentation of temporary recruitment 
fees and cumulative revenue generated by fixed price contract work. The revenue generated by the latter is recognised on a percentage 
completion basis.
The Committee discussed and reviewed these areas with both management and Deloitte, before concluding that the Group’s revenue 
for the year has been appropriately recognised.
Bad and doubtful debts
Recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income are key areas of focus given the material nature of these balances and the 
working capital needs of the Group. The debt profile of the Group covers a high volume of balances from a considerable number of 
customers. Management must therefore apply judgement in determining the amount of provision required for possible non-collection 
of bad or doubtful debts. This is performed on a case-by-case basis across the Group taking into account differences between countries 
and service lines.
The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the provisioning by considering the level and ageing of debtors and accrued income, 
the consistency of provisioning assumptions year-on-year, and past experience of bad debt exposure. The Committee concluded that 
the level of provisioning and carrying value of trade receivables and accrued income is appropriate.
Capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets
The Group commenced software development of a wireless solution for the automotive and rail sectors during the financial year. 
Cumulative direct costs incurred by the project were capitalised as an intangible asset. Management prepared an accounting position 
paper on commencement of the development project, which was presented to the Committee for their review. The paper detailed the 
guidance and tests required to be met by the relevant International Financial Reporting Standard. While the Committee agreed that such 
costs incurred satisfied the criteria of the Standard, they noted that the useful economic life of the intangible asset should be reviewed 
regularly to ensure its appropriateness.
External audit
Tender policy 
The Committee continued to discuss the topic of external audit tender policy this year. The previous tender process was performed in 
2006, with PwC being reappointed in office. Acknowledging latest best practice, the Board accepted our recommendation to tender the 
external audit during the year.
We applied a rigorous approach to the tender process, focused on audit quality and service. Three leading audit firms were shortlisted for 
final interview: Deloitte, KPMG and PwC. A detailed tender briefing was circulated to candidate firms who were invited to present their 
audit approach to the Committee. Fee quotations were not disclosed to Committee members, other than to me as Audit Committee 
Chairman, permitting the panel to appraise candidate firms solely on the basis of audit quality and service. 
We agreed to recommend to the Board the appointment of Deloitte as the Group’s External Auditor, effective for the year ended 31 
January 2015. The Board supported our recommendation to fill the casual vacancy. A formal resolution will be put to shareholders for 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 2015. 
The Committee shall continue to periodically review the frequency of the external audit tender process.
Monitoring
We assessed the effectiveness and quality of the external audit provided by Deloitte, following their first year of tenure. The Committee 
sought feedback from management across the Group and challenged Deloitte on its risk assessment during the audit planning process 
and subsequent reporting thereof. The Committee members also made themselves available to hold private discussions with Deloitte 
regarding the quality of the external audit process. Based on this evidence, we are satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
external audit process. 50 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC AUDIT COMMITEE REPORT
The Committee is also required to monitor the independence and objectivity of Deloitte as External Auditor. Representation of such 
was sought from all firms invited to the tender process. Representation was reconfirmed by Deloitte and the External Audit Partner at 
the commencement of the planning process. We shall continue to monitor the independence and objectivity of Deloitte, which extends 
to the provision of non-audit services.
Provision of non-audit services
The Audit Committee has a policy that governs the extent of non-audit services provided by the External Auditor. This requires a 
competitive tendering process for significant non-audit services other than routine tax and compliance services, and precludes the 
External Auditor from providing certain services such as valuation work or the provision of accounting services.
In addition, we have set a limit on the value of non-audit services which may be provided by the External Auditor, being 30% of the audit 
fee, without prior consideration and written authorisation by the Audit Committee. An analysis of the fees paid to Deloitte and to the 
previous External Auditor, PwC, can be found in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
Internal audit
The Committee is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of the Group’s internal audit function. This includes setting the scope 
of the annual internal audit plan, review of internal audit reports, consideration of findings and identification of issues for further 
investigation and reassessment of risk. We also review the resources and effectiveness of the function.
We approved the internal audit plan for the year. The scope of the plan was focused on key risk areas identified by the Committee, both 
financial and commercial.
The findings of four internal audit reviews were reported to us this year, covering our operations in Nash Technologies, Belgium, Talent 
IT and Vietnam. No significant weaknesses were identified. Nonetheless, areas of continuous improvement were highlighted by two 
reviews where we requested further investigation and monitoring of improvement to be reported back to us.
Internal controls and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control including financial controls. These have been designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives. The systems of internal control can only provide reasonable, not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board has an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group, details of which can be 
found on page 20. This was in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial 
statements. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRC Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors. 
The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems. No significant failings or weaknesses 
were identified. 
Whistleblowing
The Audit Committee provides a facility for employees to raise issues, which may be disclosed confidentially if requested. An independent 
person is assigned to promptly investigate any matters raised, with findings reported to the appropriate management team and escalated 
to the Audit Committee and the Group’s internal audit function as appropriate. Any necessary corrective action or follow-up review is 
undertaken on a timely basis. 
The Audit Committee reviews the whistleblowing policy and arrangements in place annually.
Audit Committee effectiveness
The Committee considered our effectiveness in discharging our duties throughout the financial year. We assessed the work we 
undertook during the financial year, within the context of our terms of reference and latest best practice. In conjunction with the Board 
effectiveness review referred to on page 26, we concluded that our performance against these criteria remained effective.
Ian Davies
Audit Committee Chairman 51 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY / 51
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
Respect of the Annual Report
For the year ended 31 January 2015
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in 
business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face
• the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information nec-
essary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 April 2015 and is signed on its behalf by:
Richard Ashcroft
Group Finance Director 52 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Financial Statements
Opinion on financial statements of Harvey Nash Group plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 January 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Ac-
counting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity, the related notes 1 to 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 15 to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement on page 27 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 
appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have determined which risks are significant based on the planning procedures that have been performed. This includes an 
understanding of the specific account balances, the nature of the business and our understanding of the overseas components and 
their activities.
For each of the following risks we have conducted procedures to assess the design of the relevant controls in place to mitigate a material 
misstatement. In addition we also test the implementation of these controls. 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Debtor and accrued income recoverability
As per note 13 to the consolidated financial statements trade 
receivables were £80.4m (2014: £112.9m) and the provision 
applied to this was £0.4m (2014: £0.3m). The provisioning 
policy in relation to debtors is detailed in note 2 to the financial 
statements. Accrued income and prepayments at the year-end 
date was £36.6m (2014: £22.7m). 
The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued income and 
the level of provisions for bad debts are considered to be 
a significant risk due to the size of these balances and the 
importance of cash collection as part of the working capital 
management of the business. Whilst historically the Group has 
not recorded a material level of bad debt write-off judgement 
is required to estimate the level of bad debt provision based on 
the individual circumstances of customers.
Management disclose the recoverability of debtor balances and 
the application of the bad debt policy as a critical accounting 
judgement in note 4.
We have:
• challenged management regarding the level and ageing of 
debtors and accrued income, by assessing recoverability with 
reference to cash received in respect of debtors and cash re-
ceived and billings raised against accrued income;
• in selected locations, we have issued and received debtors con-
firmations from the third party debtors selected for testing;
• challenged the application of the provisioning approach with 
reference to the post year-end developments for aged debt 
throughout the Group;
• considered the Group’s experience of bad debt exposure with 
reference to the individual counterparty risk, the level of provi-
sion held by other recruitment businesses and the general eco-
nomic environment in each jurisdiction; and
• critically assessed the recoverability of overdue unprovided 
debt and aged accrued income with reference to historical lev-
els of bad debt expense and the credit profile of counterparties. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  / 53
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Goodwill impairment
As per note 11 the total value of goodwill held by the Group 
is £48.7m (2014: £49.1m). This goodwill has arisen based on 
historical acquisitions.
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, as described 
in note 11, involves considerable judgement due to the 
challenges in accurately forecasting future cash flows given 
the market environment for global recruitment businesses. Key 
assumptions in management’s analysis include identification of 
cash generating units, short and long-term growth rates and the 
discount rate applied to the future cash flows. 
Management disclose this as a critical accounting judgement in 
note 4 to the financial statements.
We tested management’s assumptions used in their impairment 
assessment of the Group’s goodwill in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. Our procedures included:
• assessing the identification of appropriate cash generating 
units;
• assessing the short-term cash flow projections against recent 
performance, historical forecasting accuracy and comparing 
the forecasts to external recruitment industry sources of data; 
• comparing the long-term forecasts against long-term econom-
ic growth rates from external data for each relevant jurisdiction; 
• comparing the discount rate applied against a recruitment industry 
comparator group as well as involving our internal valuation spe-
cialists to assess the key components of the discount rate calcula-
tion;
• considering the reasonableness of, and recalculating, the sensi-
tivity assessment applied by management;
• performing further sensitivity analysis of our own on the cash gener-
ating units with the lowest headroom in the impairment model; and
• checking the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model in 
the calculation of the recoverable amount.
Capitalisation of fixed assets
During the period the Nash Technologies business has started to 
develop software projects and has capitalised costs associated 
with these projects as intangible assets. There is significant 
judgement in respect of the development expenditure that is 
capitalised having been deemed by management to meet the 
strict capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
In addition, judgement is applied when considering whether the 
carrying value of the capitalised amounts is supportable based 
on future income projections.
The value of these costs are £1.7m as at 31 January 2015 
(2014: £nil), and details can be found in note 11 of the financial 
statements. Management disclose this as a key source of 
estimation uncertainty in note 4 to the financial statements.
We have:
• gained an understanding of the projects that have been developed 
and are in development;
• selected a sample of development costs that have been capital-
ised, assessed the nature of these costs, traced the costs to sup-
porting invoice or contract and assessed the appropriateness of 
capitalisation against the requirements of IAS 38; and
• considered the carrying value against the future plans for the prod-
ucts and software being developed – specifically by assessing the 
discounted cash flow forecasts driven from the project business 
plans. 54 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition
The key risks identified in respect of revenue recognition are:
• the presentation of temporary contractual arrangements when 
Harvey Nash acts as a principal and revenue and directly associated 
costs are recognised and presented on a gross basis as opposed to 
a net basis. This judgement significantly impacts the income state-
ment presentation of revenue and associated costs; 
• the valuation and cut-off of accrued revenue in respect of contrac-
tor arrangements. Contractor revenue is the main revenue stream 
of the Group and significant judgement is required in the estima-
tion of accrued revenue recognised in respect of missing and sub-
mitted but not approved timesheets at the period end; and
• the revenue derived from outsourced software development. The 
revenue for these bespoke projects is recognised on the percent-
age completion basis. There is significant judgement in estimating 
the level of completion in relation to these projects and therefore 
the revenue that should be recognised.
Note 2 to the financial statements discloses the revenue 
recognition criteria and policies that are applied to individual 
revenue streams. In addition revenue recognition is identified as 
a key source of accounting judgement within note 4.
We have evaluated a sample of contracts throughout the 
Group and assessed the judgement as to whether Harvey Nash 
maintains the majority of the risks and rewards associated with 
the underlying agreement. Based on this assessment we have 
determined whether the revenue should be presented gross or 
net.
In relation to the valuation of contractor accrued income at 
the period end we have assessed the appropriateness of the 
proportion of revenue recognised from missing and submitted 
but not approved timesheets by:
• understanding and challenging management’s rationale for the 
proportion of revenue accrued by tracing sample items to evi-
dence of submission and customer approval post period end; and
• mechanically recalculating the accrued income estimate made by 
management.
In relation to the revenue derived from outsourced development 
software we have obtained individual contracts and assessed the 
stage of completion. We have assessed this by:
• discussing the progress of individual projects with the Project Man-
agers responsible for their completion;
• obtaining evidence of the forecast costs to complete and review-
ing this against historical performance;
• reviewing the sales projections prepared by management in rela-
tion to each project; and
• auditing the costs that have been incurred in the development of 
each project.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed 
on page 49.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not 
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any 
of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work 
and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £490,000, which equates to 5% of profit before tax and non-recurring items. The non-
recurring items are one-off restructuring costs relating to the strategic restructuring of the Group’s European operations. It is also 
below 1% of both revenue and equity. In the prior year, the previous auditors determined materiality to be £450,000 which represented 
approximately 5% of profit before tax and non-recurring items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £45,000 (2014: the 
previous auditors reported on all amounts above £45,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  / 55
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment there were various different levels of 
procedures applied to entities depending if they were subject to a full scope audit, an audit of specific financial statement line items 
or statutory audits only. We determined which components are subject to which scope based upon the financial significance and the 
specific account balances within each component. We performed full scope audit procedures in the UK, Belgium and the Netherlands 
with limited scope audit procedures performed in the USA, Vietnam and Germany. Our audit work at each location that was either full or 
limited scope for Group reporting was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group 
materiality and ranged from £98,000 to £345,000.
The components that were subject to a full scope or limited scope audit procedures represented 89% of the Group’s revenue and 93% 
of the Group’s profit before tax.
The Group audit team established a programme of planned visits designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visited all 
components that are full scope or subject to specific financial statement line procedures in the current period. Each component audit 
team is included in our detailed team briefing and the Group audit team participate in the component auditor risk assessment, reviews 
the documentation of the findings from their work and attends the component audit close meetings.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not 
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 56 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 
1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Helen George, ACA
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
29 April 2015 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 57
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 January 2015
Notes
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Revenue 5 696,627 697,321
Cost of sales (607,170) (608,751)
Gross profit 5 89,457 88,570
Administrative expenses (81,057) (81,443)
Operating profit before non-recurring items 5, 7 9,739 9,706
Non-recurring items 30 (1,339) (2,579)
Operating profit 5, 7 8,400 7,127
Finance income 6 – 21
Finance costs 6 (736) (721)
Profit before tax 7,664 6,427
Income tax expense 8 (2,400) (2,543)
Profit for the year 5,264 3,884
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 5,264 3,846
Non-controlling interest – 38
5,264 3,884
Earnings per share for profit attributable to owners of the parent 
 – Basic earnings per share  9 7.24p 5.24p
 – Diluted earnings per share  9 7.20p 5.22p
– Adjusted basic earnings per share* 9 9.02p 8.76p
– Adjusted diluted earnings per share* 9 8.98p 8.72p
All results presented are derived from continuing operations.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 January 2015
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Profit for the year 5,264 3,884
Foreign currency translation differences** (2,577) (1,339)
Other comprehensive income for the year (2,577) (1,339)
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,687 2,545
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 2,687 2,507
Non-controlling interest – 38
2,687 2,545
* excluding non-recurring items ** which may be recycled into the Consolidated Income Statement if specific conditions are met 58 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 January 2015
Notes 2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 3,894 3,830
Intangible assets 11 51,402 50,386
Investments 26 235 217
Deferred tax assets 8 2,757 2,552
58,288 56,985
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 12 18,996 15,881
Trade and other receivables 13 118,689 136,083
137,685 151,964
Total assets 195,973 208,949
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities 
Contingent consideration 26 (460) (2,150)
Deferred tax liabilities 8 (314) (355)
(774) (2,505)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 14 (108,765) (126,796)
Current income tax liabilities (2,569) (988)
Borrowings 27 (16,885) (12,050)
Contingent consideration 26 (1,968) –
Provision for liabilities and charges 29 (414) (1,142)
(130,601) (140,976)
Total liabilities (131,375) (143,481)
Net assets 64,598 65,468
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders
Ordinary shares 17 3,673 3,673
Share premium 18 8,425 8,425
Fair value and other reserves 19 15,079 15,079
Own shares held 20 (1,032) (172)
Cumulative translation reserve 2,191 4,768
Retained earnings 21 36,262 33,695
Total shareholders’ funds and total equity 64,598 65,468
The consolidated financial statements on pages 57 to 84 were approved by the Board on 29 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Julie Baddeley        Richard Ashcroft
Chairman        Group Finance Director 
(Parent Company Number: 03320790)  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 59
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 January 2015
Share 
capital
Share 
premium
Fair value 
and other 
reserves
Own 
shares 
held
Cumulative 
translation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total Non-
controlling 
interest in 
equity
Total 
equity
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
1 February 2013 3,673 8,425 15,079 (50) 6,107 33,477 66,711 252 66,963
Profit for the year – – – – – 3,846 3,846 38 3,884
Currency translation 
adjustments
– – – – (1,339) – (1,339) – (1,339)
Total comprehensive 
income and expense for 
the year
– – – – (1,339) 3,846 2,507 38 2,545
Dividends paid to non-
controlling interests
– – – – – – – (180) (180)
Acquisition of non-
controlling interest**
– – – – – (1,173) (1,173) (110) (1,283)
Employee share option 
and bonus plan*
– – – 828 – (230) 598 – 598
Own Shares purchased* – – – (950) – – (950) – (950)
Dividends paid (Note 
28)
– – – – – (2,225) (2,225) – (2,225)
31 January 2014 3,673 8,425 15,079 (172) 4,768 33,695 65,468 – 65,468
1 February 2014 3,673 8,425 15,079 (172) 4,768 33,695 65,468 – 65,468
Profit for the year – – – – – 5,264 5,264 – 5,264
Currency translation 
adjustments
– – – – (2,577) – (2,577) – (2,577)
Total comprehensive 
income and expense for 
the year
– – – – (2,577) 5,264 2,687 – 2,687
Employee share option 
and bonus plan*
– – – 706 – (269) 437 – 437
Own Shares purchased* 
(Note 20)
– – – (1,566) – – (1,566) – (1,566)
Dividends paid (Note 28) – – – – – (2,428) (2,428) – (2,428)
31 January 2015 3,673 8,425 15,079 (1,032) 2,191 36,262 64,598 – 64,598
* The movements in the Own Shares held reserve relate to shares awarded from and purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust. 
** Acquisition of non-controlling interest relates to the acquisition of the remaining shares in Bjerke & Luther AS. 60 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 January 2015
Notes 2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Profit before tax (before non-recurring items) 9,003 9,006
Adjustments for:
- depreciation 7, 10 1,596 1,911
- amortisation 7, 11 75 75
- loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7 82 86
- finance income 6 – (21)
- finance costs 6 736 721
- share-based employee settlement and share option charge 22 17 30
- non-recurring items 30 (1,339) (2,579)
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 10,170 9,229
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisition and exchange 
differences on consolidation)
- Decrease / (increase) in trade and other receivables 12,489 (24,755)
- (Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (11,913) 22,053
- (Decrease) / increase in provisions 29 (698) 829
Cash flows from operating activities 10,048 7,356
Income tax paid (2,591) (1,936)
Net cash generated from operating activities 7,457 5,420
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 10 (1,811) (1,742)
Capitalised software development costs 11 (1,749) –
Cash acquired with acquisitions 31 263 –
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 26, 31 (360) (1,294)
Interest received 6 – 21
Net cash used in investing activities (3,657) (3,015)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from employee share options exercise 393 508
Purchase of own shares 20 (1,566) (950)
Dividends paid to Group shareholders 28 (2,428) (2,225)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 28 – (180)
Interest paid (736) (721)
Increase in borrowings 15 4,696 2,206
Net cash generated / (used) in financing activities 359 (1,362)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 15 4,159 1,043
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 15 15,881 14,346
Exchange (losses) / gains on cash and cash equivalents 15 (1,044) 492
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 18,996 15,881 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 61
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. General information
Harvey Nash Group plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) is a leading provider of specialist recruitment and 
outsourcing solutions. The Group has offices in the UK, Europe, the USA, Hong Kong, Japan, Australia and Vietnam.
The Company is a public listed company incorporated in the UK. Its registered address is 110 Bishopsgate, London, EC2N 4AY and its 
listing is on the London Stock Exchange.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to both years across the Group. 
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Harvey Nash Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention on 
a going concern basis, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair 
value through profit or loss. 
The main section of these financial statements presents the financial statements of the Group prepared under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. Pages 86 to 90 show the financial statements of the Company prepared 
under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
(i) New and amended standards, adopted by the Group
In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted:
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ 
• IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ 
• Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ 
• Amendment to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
• Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’
• IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’
• Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2011
These changes have no material impact on the consolidated result, financial position or cash flows of the Group. 
(ii) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year and not early adopted
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are effective for future accounting periods and 
the Group has not early adopted them:
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
• Amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ on accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations
• Amendments to IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ clarifying acceptable methods of depreciation and 
amortisation
• Amendment to IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’ on use of equity method
• Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012
• Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2013
The Group intends to adopt the above in the relevant future accounting periods in which they become mandatory, subject to endorsement 
by the EU where relevant.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group 
in future periods, except that IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures. Beyond this information, it is 
not yet practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
(b) Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have  62 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 27. 
(c) Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the results of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to  
31 January each year and are based on consistent accounting policies.
Interests acquired in subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group. They are deconsolidated 
from the date on which control ceases. Transactions and balances, including unrealised profits, between Group companies are eliminated 
on consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. 
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
(d) Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the supply of services, net of value-added tax, 
rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. 
The Group derives its revenue in the contract services and interim businesses on a time and materials basis. It is recognised as services 
are rendered as validated by receipt of a client-approved timesheet or equivalent. Where the Group is acting as a principal, turnover 
represents amounts billed for the services, inclusive of the remuneration costs of the workers. 
For fixed price development work, revenue is recognised on the percentage completion basis, using pre-specified milestones or a client 
sign-off to trigger invoices and the estimate of profit.
Revenue arising from permanent placements is recognised on acceptance of the candidate or on start date, subject to the contractual 
agreement. Provision is made for the expected cost of obligations where employees do not work for the specified contractual period.
Executive recruitment and assignment fees are recognised as services are provided, typically in three stages; retainer, shortlist and 
placement fee. Provision is made for the expected cost of obligations where employees do not work for the specified contractual period. 
Revenue anticipated, but not invoiced at the balance sheet date, is accrued on the balance sheet as accrued income. Revenue invoiced 
but not earned at the balance sheet date is recorded as a liability as deferred income.
(e) Investments
Shares in subsidiaries are valued at cost less provision for impairment. Investments in associated undertakings (‘associated companies’) 
are stated at the amount of the Group’s share of net assets.
(f) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition. 
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets (excluding motor vehicles), less their estimated residual values, on a 
straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
Leasehold improvements   term of the lease
Furniture, fixtures and equipment  5 years 
Office equipment    5 years
Computer equipment   3 years
Motor vehicles    25% reducing balance
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying 
amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater. The gain or loss on disposals 
or retirement of an item of plant, property or equipment is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment purchased to deliver outsourcing projects, which have been recharged to clients at cost, remain the legal 
property of the Group. The cost of the asset is capitalised within current assets and charged to cost of sales over the contract length. 
(g) Foreign exchange
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling 
which is the Company’s functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies in each company are retranslated into the respective functional currency of the entity at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the reporting period date.  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 63
On consolidation, revenues, costs and cash flows of overseas undertakings are included in the Group income statement at average rates 
of exchange for the period. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using rates of exchange 
ruling at the balance sheet date and any differences arising are recognised in equity. When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative 
amount previously recognised in equity in respect of that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency 
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity on consolidation. 
(h) Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet 
as a finance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expense and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Rentals payable under operating lease are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentive 
benefits are recognised as a reduction in rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
(i) Intangible assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of 
the acquired subsidiary at the date of the acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those 
cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the future cash flows of the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Development costs are capitalised as an intangible asset in accordance with the requirements of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. An intangible 
asset is recognised when it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. Only 
costs directly incurred in relation to a development project are capitalised. This includes the cost of internal labour, which is captured via 
appropriately approved timesheets. Amortisation of the intangible asset commences at the point the underlying product is commissioned 
for use. An impairment review is performed at each balance sheet date until the product is commissioned. Amortisation is charged on a 
straight-line basis, over the estimated lifespan of the product. The estimated lifespan is reviewed regularly for appropriateness.
Other intangible assets which are acquired separately or through a business combination are stated at cost or fair value respectively, 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. An intangible asset with a finite useful life is amortised from the date the asset 
is available for use, and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over its useful life, between 1 and 20 years. The 
Group does not have any assets, other than goodwill, with infinite useful lives. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. 
(j) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
All assets are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs of sale and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. Assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). 
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original carrying value prior to any impairment charges. 
(k) Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group’s contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the Group transfers 
substantially all the risks and reward of the financial asset. Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Group’s balance sheet when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Financial assets 
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified 
as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. 
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables where the recognition of interest 
would be immaterial. For trade receivables, generally this results in recognition at nominal value less any allowance for doubtful debts.
Financial assets which are not classified as loans and receivables are classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’. Financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally 
for the purpose of selling in the short term or such designation would eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or recognition 
inconsistency that would otherwise arise. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. 64 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are classified as either ‘fair value through the profit and loss’ (‘FVTPL’) or ‘other financial liabilities’. A financial liability 
is classified as FVTPL if it is held for trading or specifically designated as such to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or 
recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising 
on remeasurement recognised in the profit and loss. 
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective 
yield basis. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest 
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payment through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 
(l) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash-in-hand and deposits which can be withdrawn as cash without giving any notice and without suffering any penalty. 
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject 
to insignificant risk of changes in value.
(m) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the 
consideration paid is deductible from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or 
disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders.
(n) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from 
the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable 
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with 
such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against 
which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in 
the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred 
tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
(o) Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
(p) Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Wherever possible the Group operates defined contribution pension schemes, under which the Group pays fixed contributions into 
separate entities. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. Pension costs are charged to the income 
statement in the year in which they arise. In Germany and Switzerland, legislation requires the operation of defined benefit pensions 
which contain an element of defined benefit, which are fully insured and for which therefore there are no unrecorded liabilities. These 
schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes. 
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or when an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to 
terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
Bonus plan
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when contractually obliged.
Share-based plans
The Group’s management awards certain employees share options on a discretionary basis. The options are subject to three-year vesting 
conditions and their fair value is recognised as an employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in retained earnings over the  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 65
vesting period. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium 
when the options are exercised. For options exercised against own shares held, the shares are removed from the own shares held reserve. 
The Group has applied IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ to all instruments granted after 7 November 2002 but not fully vested as at 1 January 
2005 and has adopted the Black-Scholes model for the purposes of computing ‘fair value’. Deferred tax is also provided based upon the 
expected future tax deductions relating to share-based payment transactions and is recognised over the vesting period of the schemes 
concerned. 
(q) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as the result of a past event and it is probable that this will result in an outflow 
of economic benefit, the size of which can be reliably estimated. Discounting is applied only when the effect is material.
(r) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are written off as incurred or, in the case of initial arrangement fees, may be spread over the term of the facility where 
appropriate. Invoice discounting fees are recognised as incurred.
(s) Working capital facilities
The Group has access to working capital finance facilities provided by its bankers in the form of a confidential trade receivables finance 
facility which is secured by a floating charge over the Group’s assets. The borrowings under this are included within current liabilities 
and described as borrowings on the Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet and the facility is secured specifically against the Group’s trade 
receivables. Trade receivables are included within trade receivables in the Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(t) Non-recurring items
Material non-recurring items are presented separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement due to their nature and/or size. 
The separate reporting of such items helps to provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance.
3. Financial risk management
Financing
The Group’s principal financial instruments are invoice discounting, overdrafts, cash and short-term deposits. The Group has other 
financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations. Acquisitions are financed 
through a mixture of operating cash flow and equity. Working capital finance for day-to-day requirements is provided through operating 
cash generation, invoice discounting facilities and small short-term overdraft facilities. Where applicable, funds are then made available 
for the financing of the Group’s subsidiaries through intercompany loans.
Objectives, policies and strategies
The most significant treasury exposures faced by the Group are raising finance, managing interest rates and currency positions as well as 
investing surplus cash in high-quality assets. The Board has established clear parameters, including levels of authority, on the type and use 
of financial instruments to manage these exposures. Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures and cannot 
be viewed as speculative.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In 
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. During 2015, the Group’s strategy, which was unchanged from 2014, was to 
have adequate headroom and access to cash facilities to meet its requirements.
2015 2014
Net debt £’000 – –
Total equity £’000 64,598 65,468
Total capital £’000 64,598 65,468
Gearing ratio % – –
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s policy is to minimise interest charges through cash pooling and active cash management. The Group does not actively hedge 
interest rate risk.
Foreign exchange risk management
The Group’s policy is to minimise foreign currency risk. The Group manages its exposure on equity investments in overseas subsidiaries 
through foreign currency borrowings. The currency risk of holding assets and liabilities in foreign currencies across the Group is managed 
by partially matching foreign currency assets with foreign currency liabilities. The Group does not actively hedge foreign exchange risk.
The Group’s operating profit exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the US dollar and the euro. 66 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In the year to 31 January 2015, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, operating 
profit for the year would have been £11,000 (2014: £59,000) lower.
In the year to 31 January 2015, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against the euro with all other variables held constant, operating profit 
for the year would have been £619,000 (2014: £540,400) lower.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers 
with an appropriate credit history. Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and 
geographical areas. The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to a single customer.
The table below shows the counterparty risk with the Bank at the balance sheet date.
2015 2015 2014 2014
  £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Rating * Credit limit Balance Credit limit Balance
Bank overdraft – secured A-1 2,000 – 2,000 362
* Standard and Poor’s rating
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and committed credit facilities. Management monitors rolling 
forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facility, cash and invoice discounting) on the basis of expected 
cash flow. All borrowings are short term. The Group’s main discounting facility is a rolling facility and was most recently renewed in 
February 2013. 
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered relevant. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial 
statements, are as follows. 
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether the goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-
generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 January 2015 was 
£48.7m (2014: £49.1m). The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are set out in note 11.
Revenue recognition
Judgement applied in respect of recognition of revenue is significant in two key areas: cut-off and presentation of temporary recruitment 
fees and cumulative revenue generated by fixed price contract work. The revenue generated by the latter is recognised on a percentage 
completion basis.
Bad and doubtful debts
Recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income are key areas of focus given the material nature of these balances and the 
working capital needs of the Group. The debt profile of the Group covers a high volume of balances from a considerable number of 
customers. Management must therefore apply judgement in determining the amount of provision required to be made for possible non-
collection of bad or doubtful debts. This is performed on a case-by-case basis across the Group taking into account differences between 
countries and service lines.
Capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets
The Group commenced software development of a wireless solution for the automotive and rail sectors during the year. Cumulative 
direct costs of £1.7m incurred by the project were capitalised as an intangible asset. Management must apply judgement in determining 
appropriateness of direct costs incurred, particularly own labour costs, when capitalising these as an intangible asset. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 67
5. Segment information
IFRS 8 requires disclosure of information about the Group’s operating segments. It requires a management approach under which segment 
information is presented on a similar basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. The chief operating decision maker has been identified 
as the Group Board. Services provided by each reportable segment are permanent recruitment, contracting and outsourcing.
The Group Board analyses segmental information as follows.
Revenue
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
United Kingdom & Ireland
229,816 223,741
Mainland Europe 413,160
421,161
Benelux and France 315,374 310,475
Nordics 15,614 15,293
Central Europe 82,172 95,393
Rest of World 53,651
52,419
United States 47,687 46,938
Asia Pacific 5,964 5,481
Total 696,627 697,321
There was no one customer that generated in excess of 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group in this or the previous financial year.
Gross profit
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
United Kingdom & Ireland
36,172 33,360
Mainland Europe
37,445 40,204
Benelux and France 13,066 13,186
Nordics 11,522 11,869
Central Europe 12,857 15,149
Rest of World
15,840 15,006
United States 11,817 11,394
Asia Pacific 4,023 3,612
Total 89,457 88,570
Operating profit (before non-recurring items)
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
United Kingdom & Ireland
3,685 3,161
Mainland Europe 5,493
5,609
Benelux and France 4,343 4,052
Nordics 351 314
Central Europe 799 1,243
Rest of World 561 936
United States 865 852
Asia Pacific (304) 84
Total 9,739 9,706 68 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Profit before tax
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Operating profit:
United Kingdom & Ireland
3,501 3,161
Mainland Europe 4,338
3,030
Benelux and France 4,302 3,723
Nordics (138) 314
Central Europe 174 (1,007)
Rest of World 561 936
United States 865 852
Asia Pacific (304) 84
7,127
Total operating profit 8,400 7,127
Finance income – 21
Finance costs (736) (721)
Profit before tax 7,664 6,427
Non-recurring items are disclosed within note 30.
Depreciation and amortisation charge
Depreciation charge
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
United Kingdom & Ireland
482 440
Mainland Europe
564 936
Benelux and France 153 159
Nordics 49 43
Central Europe 362 734
Rest of World 550 535
United States 53 73
Asia Pacific 497 462
1
Total 1,596 1,911
The net book value of property, plant and equipment is disclosed within note 10.
Amortisation 
Amortisation of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) was charged to the Mainland Europe segment.
6. Finance income and costs
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Interest expense
Interest payable on bank borrowings (736) (721)
Finance costs (736) (721)
Bank interest receivable – 21
Net finance costs (736) (700) HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 69
7. Operating profit
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit.
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Staff costs (note 23) 57,337 56,125
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,543 1,834
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment on finance leases 53 77
Amortisation (note 11) 75 75
Auditor’s remuneration
 – fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated
 financial statements
21 21
 – fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 354 408
– fees payable to the Company’s auditor and associates for other services
 – services relating to taxation compliance 6 24
 – all other services – 21
Operating lease rentals payable 5,479 5,323
Loss on foreign exchange 70 15
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 82 86
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of the External Auditor for non-audit services, the reasons why the External Auditor was 
used rather than another supplier and how the External Auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit 
Committee Report on pages 49 and 50. No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
8. Income tax expense 
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Corporation tax on profits in the year – UK 172 –
Corporation tax on profits in the year – overseas 2,519 2,538
Adjustments in respect of prior years (45) –
Total current tax 2,646 2,538
Deferred tax (246) 5
Total tax charge 2,400 2,543
The tax for the year is higher (2014: higher) than the standard UK corporation tax rate applied to pre-tax profit. The standard rate of 
corporation tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this accounting 
period are taxed at an effective standard rate of 21.33% before non-recurring items.  70 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The differences are explained below for 2015 and 2014 using the UK standard rate of corporation tax. 
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Profit before tax 7,664 6,427
Tax at standard rate of UK corporation tax (2015: 21.3% and 2014: 23.2%) 1,635 1,489
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 373 374
Income not taxable (78) (58)
Utilisation of brought forward tax losses not previously recognised – (237)
Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 714 871
Tax losses now recognised for deferred tax (196) (24)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior year (71) –
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years (61) –
Profits taxed at overseas rates 31 156
Other 53 (28)
Total taxation 2,400 2,543
Current tax:
Tax on profit in the year 2,691 2,538
Adjustments in respect of prior years (45) –
Total current tax 2,646 2,538
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (246) 29
Adjustments in respect of prior years – (24)
Total deferred tax charge (246) 5
Total tax charge 2,400 2,543
Deferred tax
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 2,054 2,045 
Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 703 507
2,757 2,552
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months (159) (176)
Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months (155) (179)
(314) (355)
Net deferred tax asset 2,443 2,197 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 71
The deferred tax position is analysed below.
Asset
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
Share-based 
payments Tax losses
Accrued 
interest 
charges*
Post-
employment 
liabilities
 Loan 
waiver Total
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £’000 £ ’000 £’000 £ ’000
1 February 2014 3 21 868 1,006 467 187 2,552
Charged / (credited) to 
income statement and 
equity
(3) (11) 275 – (56) – 205
31 January 2015 – 10 1,143 1,006 411 187 2,757
* The deferred tax asset recognised for accrued interest charges relates to Group interest charges payable by the US business.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will 
be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they are realised. The 
rates enacted or substantively enacted by the UK Government for the relevant periods of reversal are 23% and 21% as at 31 January 2015. 
The reduction in the UK rate to 20% will be effective from 1 April 2015.
Liability
Unremitted 
earnings
Accrued 
revenue Other Total
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
1 February 2014 (159) (155) (41) (355)
Credited to income statement and equity – – 41 41
31 January 2015 (159) (155) – (314)
Due to the uncertainty of recoverability, deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses, depreciation in excess of accelerated capital allowance 
and deductible temporary differences of £5,884,000 (2014: £5,189,00) have not been recognised. Future tax charges may be reduced as 
a result of tax losses for which a deferred tax asset is currently not recognised.
9. Earnings per share
2015 2014
Profit attributable to shareholders £’000 5,264 3,846
Weighted average number of shares 72,754,076 73,351,850
Basic earnings per share 7.24p 5.24p
2015 2014
Profit attributable to shareholders (excluding non-recurring items) £’000 6,563 6,425
Weighted average number of shares 72,754,076 73,351,850
Basic earnings per share (excluding non-recurring items) 9.02p 8.76p
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled. 72 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive 
potential ordinary shares. The Group has two categories of potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where 
the exercise price is less than the average price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year, and deferred consideration shares to 
be issued. 
2015 2014
Profit attributable to shareholders £’000 5,264 3,846
Weighted average number of shares 72,754,076 73,351,850
Effect of dilutive securities 350,728 335,539
Adjusted weighted average number of shares 73,104,804 73,687,389
Diluted earnings per share 7.20p 5.22p
2015 2014
Profit attributable to shareholders (excluding non-recurring items) £’000 6,563 6,425
Weighted average number of shares 72,754,076 73,351,850
Effect of dilutive securities 350,728 335,539
Adjusted weighted average number of shares 73,104,804 73,687,389
Diluted earnings per share (excluding non-recurring items) 8.98p 8.72p
10. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold 
improvements
Office 
equipment
Furniture, 
fixtures and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Motor 
vehicles Total
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 2,238 431 1,480 9,377 221 13,747
Exchange adjustments 23 (58) (14) (221) (4) (274)
Additions at cost 108 144 57 1,502 – 1,811
Acquisitions 4 – 2 1 – 7
Disposals (155) (14) (3) (230) (181) (583)
At 31 January 2015 2,218 503 1,522 10,429 36 14,708
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 February 2014 898 126 1,228 7,545 120 9,917
Exchange adjustments 29 63 – (290) – (198)
Charge for the year 246 72 102 1,143 33 1,596
Disposals (146) (14) (2) (192) (147) (501)
At 31 January 2015 1,027 247 1,328 8,206 6 10,814
Net book amount 
At 1 February 2014
1,340 305 252 1,832 101 3,830
Net book amount 
At 31 January 2015
1,191 256 194 2,223 30 3,894 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 73
Leasehold 
improvements
Office 
equipment
Furniture, 
fixtures and 
equipment
Computer 
equipment
Motor 
vehicles Total
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Cost
At 1 February 2013 2,556 372 1,445 9,186 264 13,823
Exchange adjustments (59) (41) 4 (398) (17) (511)
Additions at cost 302 144 104 1,192 – 1,742
Disposals (561) (44) (73) (603) (26) (1,307)
At 31 January 2014 2,238 431 1,480 9,377 221 13,747
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 February 2013 1,142 107 1,159 6,963 79 9,450
Exchange adjustments (17) 4 (107) (199) (12) (331)
Charge for the year 259 56 249 1,270 77 1,911
Disposals (486) (41) (73) (489) (24) (1,113)
At 31 January 2014 898 126 1,228 7,545 120 9,917
Net book amount 
At 1 February 2013
1,414 265 286 2,223 185 4,373
Net book amount 
At 31 January 2014
1,340 305 252 1,832 101 3,830
Assets under finance leases, classified as motor vehicles, amount to £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). The Group held no assets under hire purchase 
contracts in the current or prior year.
On 18 March 2013, the Group exchanged its call centre operations to MOCAP in return for a 15% shareholding in MOCAP. The net book 
value of fixed tangible assets transferred was £0.1m.
The closing net book balance at 31 January 2015 for the UK and Ireland was £2.0m (2014: £1.7m), for Mainland Europe it was £0.8m 
(£1.0m) and for Rest of World it was 1.1m (2014: £1.1m). 
1 1. Intangible assets 
Capitalised 
development costs Brands Goodwill Total
  £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Cost
At 1 February 2014 – 1,736 49,063 50,799
Additions 1,749 – 730 2,479
Exchange adjustments (85) (228) (1,082) (1,395)
At 31 January 2015 1,664 1,508 48,711 51,883
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 February 2014 – 413 – 413
Charge for the year – 75 – 75
Exchange adjustments – (7) – (7)
At 31 January 2015 – 481 – 481
Net book amount at 1 February 2014 – 1,323 49,063 50,386
Net book amount at 31 January 2015 1,664 1,027 48,711 51,402 74 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Brands Goodwill Total
  £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Cost
At 1 February 2013 1,905 50,753 52,658
Exchange adjustments (169) (1,690) (1,859)
At 31 January 2014 1,736 49,063 50,799
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 February 2013 338 – 338
Charge for the year 75 – 75
At 31 January 2014 413 – 413
Net book amount at 1 February 2013 1,567 50,753 52,320
Net book amount at 31 January 2014 1,323 49,063 50,386
During the year goodwill of £0.7m was recognised on the acquisition of Beaumont KK and is disclosed in further detail within note 31.
The Group also commenced software development of a wireless solution for the automotive and rail sectors during the year. Cumulative 
direct costs of £1.7m (2014: £nil) incurred by the project have been capitalised. Amortisation will commence at the point the underlying 
software product is commissioned for use. An impairment review is performed at each balance sheet date until the product is commissioned.
The carrying amounts of the intangible assets by cash-generating unit (CGU) are as follows.
2015 2014
Goodwill £ ’000 £ ’000
Harvey Nash BV 2,431 2,642
Harvey Nash US 11,718 10,725
Techpartners Group 10,807 10,807
Harvey Nash IT Consulting NV 5,317 5,745
Impact Executives Limited 3,702 3,702
Alumni AB 5,160 5,959
Harvey Nash (Vietnam) Ltd 1,346 1,230
Harvey Nash (Ireland) Ltd 3,416 3,730
Fila & Myszel Associates Sp. 89 96
Bjerke & Luther AS 1,017 1,145
Talent-IT BVBA 3,006 3,282
Beaumont KK 702 –
48,711 49,063
Brands    
Alumni AB Brand 700 916
Bjerke & Luther AS Brand 327 407
   1,027 1,323 
Capitalised development costs
Software development 1,664 –
Total 51,402 50,386
During the year the goodwill in respect of each CGU was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36. All were assessed to have a 
value in use in excess of their respective carrying values, and hence no adjustments to goodwill were considered necessary.
The assumptions applied in the impairment review are consistent with those applied within the Group’s long-term plan, approved by 
management and the Group Board. The assumptions are based on latest industry forecasts and the expectations of management given 
their past experience. The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were as follows.
The first five years of the forecasts were based on pre-tax cash flows derived from the management and Group Board approved long-
term plan. The growth rate applied to these cash flows varied between (37.4)% and 137.3%. The (37.4)% decline in profit is forecast 
for Harvey Nash (Vietnam) in 2016, with the CGU returning to growth in 2017. The peak growth rate of 137.3% relates to the 2016 
performance of Bjerke & Luther AS, where the operating loss incurred in the year is forecast to reduce in 2016. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 75
The growth rates of the larger CGUs are listed below.
Cash-generating unit
Average growth rate 
in first five years Long-term growth rate
2015 2014 2015 2014
Techpartners Group 6.2% 6.5% 2.4% 2.3%
Harvey Nash US 11.0% 9.7% 2.6% 3.1%
Alumni 7.8% 11.4% 2.4% 2.4%
Harvey Nash IT Consulting NV 1.7% 4.0% 1.2% 1.6%
The terminal growth rate is based on the long-term growth rate for each country and was on average 2.5%. Management believe the 
forecasts are achievable.
The pre-tax discount rate used was based on the industry-weighted average cost of capital for each country and was on average 10.1% 
(2014: 9.4%).
There is significant headroom in the testing for impairment for all the CGUs. A sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing 
recoverable amounts of the CGUs. This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered by management to be possible, 
including a 10% decrease in the assumed growth rates and a 10% increase in the assumed weighted average cost of capital. The analysis 
reveals that no impairment would arise under each scenario.
12. Cash and cash equivalents
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Cash at bank and in hand 18,996 15,881
 
13. Trade and other receivables
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 80,412 112,887
Less: Provision for bad and doubtful debts (380) (300)
80,032 112,587
Other receivables 2,024 754
Prepayments and accrued income 36,633 22,742
118,689 136,083
As of 31 January 2015, trade receivables of £80.0m (2014: £112.6m) were fully recoverable. Debtor days were 42.5 days (2014: 46.1 days). 
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 January 2015, trade receivables of 
£22.2m (2014: £32.2m) were over 30 days old but not impaired. This is consistent with normal commercial practices and prior years. 
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade 
receivables is as follows.
2015 2014
Months overdue £ ’000 £ ’000
1–2 months 13,116 21,407
2–3 months 5,397 8,304
Over 3 months 3,680 2,481
22,193 32,192
As of 31 January 2015, trade receivables of £0.4m (2014: £0.3m) were impaired and provided for. 
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers that are in difficult economic situations. All the impaired receivables are 
more than three months overdue. The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘administrative 
expenses’ in the income statement. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 76 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows.
2015 2014
£ ’000 £ ’000
At 1 February 300 445
Provision for receivables impairment 240 179
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (44) (3)
Unused amounts reversed (116) (321)
At 31 January 380 300
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable listed above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s receivables are denominated in the following currencies.
2015 2014
£ ’000 £ ’000
Sterling 35,137 37,075
Euros 65,730 83,652
US dollar 9,702 7,675
Other currencies 8,120 7,681
118,689 136,083
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the Group’s receivables.
14. Trade and other payables 
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Trade payables 59,074 66,889
Other tax and social security payable 6,990 11,134
Accruals and deferred income 41,843 45,384
Other payables 858 3,389
108,765 126,796
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the Group’s payables.
15. Analysis of changes in net funds
1 February 
2014
Cash flow Foreign 
exchange 
movements
31 January 
2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents (note 12) 15,881 4,159 (1,044) 18,996
Borrowings (note 27) (12,050) (4,696) (139) (16,885)
Net funds 3,831 (537) (1,183) 2,111
Net funds comprise cash and cash equivalents less invoice discounting facilities and overdrafts utilised. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 77
16. Operating lease commitments
The Group has total future minimum lease payments under operating leases for each of the following periods.
2015 2015 2014 2014
Property
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment Property
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases:
Within one year 4,628 613 4,850 545
Later than one year and less than five years 8,336 676 6,398 567
After five years 3,060 – 1,834 –
16,024 1,289 13,082 1,112
 
17. Called-up share capital
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Authorised
110,000,000 (2014: 110,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 5,500 5,500
Allotted and fully paid
73,450,393 ordinary shares of 5p each (2014: 73,450,393) 3,673 3,673
 
18. Share premium account
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
At 1 February and 31 January 8,425 8,425
 
19. Fair value and other reserves 
Fair value and other reserves of £15.1m (2014: £15.1m) include £1.7m relating to a capital redemption reserve created on flotation. The 
remainder represents share premium on share capital issued in relation to the purchase of certain acquisitions.
20. Own shares held
 2015
£ ’000
At 1 February 2014 172
Acquired in the year 1,566
Disposed of on exercise of options (706)
At 31 January 2015 1,032
The own shares held reserve represents the cost of shares in Harvey Nash Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Harvey 
Nash Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes (see note 22). The number of shares held by the 
Employment Benefit Trust at 31 January 2015 was 897,584 shares (2014: 175,239 shares). 78 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Retained earnings
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
At 1 February 33,695 33,477
Profit for the year 5,264 3,846
Employee share options and bonus plan (286) (200)
Share-based payments charge 17 (30)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – (1,173)
Dividends paid (2,428) (2,225)
At 31 January 36,262 33,695
 
22. Share-based payments
Under the Harvey Nash 2005 Company Share Option Plan (‘CSOP’), the Remuneration Committee can grant options over shares in the 
Company to employees of the Company. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under 
option at the date of grant. The contractual life of an option is 10 years. Awards under the CSOP are open to all full-time employees 
except those who have had a material interest in the Group in the previous 12 months. 
Options granted under the CSOP will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in earnings 
per share over that period exceeding the compounded annual growth in the Retail Prices Index (RPI) by 3% per annum. Options were 
valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations. 
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 January 2015 is shown below.
2015 2015 2014 2014
Number
(’000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Number
(’000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Outstanding at 1 February 1,425 £0.61 3,346 £0.64
Granted – – 271 £0.70
Forfeit – – (1,427) £0.66
Exercised (615) £0.71 (765) £0.66
Outstanding at 31 January 810 £0.60 1,425 £0.61
Exercisable at 31 January 170 £0.60 785 £0.63
The expiry date of options outstanding at the year-end and held by the Directors is detailed within the Remuneration Report on page 40. The 
weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £0.71. The options outstanding at 31 
January 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of £0.60, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of six years. 
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £17,000 (2014: £30,000), all of which related to 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax the total charge was £17,000 (2014: £30,000). The inputs into the 
Black-Scholes model are as follows.
2015 2014
Weighted average share price 6.03p 6.17p
Weighted average exercise price 6.06p 6.17p
Expected volatility 44.0% 44.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate 4.3% 4.3%
Expected dividend yields 1.3% 1.3%
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 79
23. Employees and Directors 
Staff costs for the Group during the year
(including Directors)
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Wages and salaries 48,942 47,780
Social security costs 6,474 6,508
Other pension costs (note 24) 1,904 1,807
Share option charge and share-based employee settlement 17 30
57,337 56,125
2015
Average number of people employed
(including Executive Directors)
UK
Rest of 
World Total
Directors 3 – 3
Sales 249 331 580
Administrative 95 187 282
347 518 865
2014
Average number of people employed
(including Executive Directors)
UK
(restated)
Rest of 
World
(restated)
Total
Directors 4 – 4
Sales 231 311 542
Administrative 91 177 268
326 488 814
Employees working within the offshore recruitment support centre have been reclassified from UK to Rest of World given the increased 
utilisation of the support centre across the Group’s global businesses. Accordingly, 96 employees have been reclassified between UK 
operations and the Rest of World operations.
Key management compensation 2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Short-term employee benefits 4,221 4,077
Post-employment benefits 365 355
4,586 4,432
Key management is defined as key employees at divisional director level in the Group as well as Executive Board members. Details of the 
remuneration of each Executive Director, which form part of the audited financial statements, are set out in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 30 to 47. Total fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors were £248,457 (2014: £244,296). 80 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. Pensions
Harvey Nash has in place three pension schemes in the UK: the Harvey Nash plc Directors’ Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme, a 
Group Personal Pension Plan provided by Scottish Widows, and a stakeholder scheme with Scottish Widows which had no participating 
members at the year-end.
The Harvey Nash plc Directors’ Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme (the ‘Scheme’) is a small self-administered scheme. It is an 
exempt-approved scheme under Chapter 1 of Part XIV of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. The assets of the Scheme are 
held separately from the Company by trustees. The current trustees are TFA Crawford, DC Higgins, DH Treacher and Scottish Equitable 
which is the pensioner trustee. The three individual trustees are the only members of the Scheme. The Company has the power to 
appoint individual trustees. The retirement scheme is provided on a defined contribution basis. The contributions in the year were £nil 
(2014: £nil). 
The Group Personal Pension Plan (the ‘Plan’) is a defined contribution scheme provided by Scottish Widows. The Group’s normal policy 
is to invite employees to join the Plan automatically on completion of three months’ qualifying service, although senior employees 
may be invited to join earlier at the discretion of the Directors. The Group contributes 5% and the employee contributes 3% of the 
employee’s basic earnings (excluding bonuses) to the Plan. The Group’s total contribution to the Plan for the year ended 31 January 2015 
was £656,000 (2014: £506,000). The Group operates separate schemes in all the overseas locations. The Group’s total contribution to 
schemes in overseas locations for the year ended 31 January 2015 was £1,248,000 (2014: £1,301,000). 
25. Related party transactions 
Banking cross-guarantees
Group guarantees have been entered into by the companies listed below and relate to any payment due under the Banking agreement. 
The following companies have given security to Harvey Nash Group plc, the Company.
Name of company  Security  Security
Harvey Nash plc Group Guarantee Debenture
Harvey Nash Resource Management Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Interim Management In Information Technology Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Nash Direct Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Vertis Consulting Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Mortimer Spinks Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
TechPartners International Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Harvey Nash Group EBT Limited Group Guarantee –
Impact Executives Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Broadbay Networks Inc Group Guarantee –
The relationship between Harvey Nash Group plc and its principal subsidiaries is disclosed in note 26. 
26. Investments
2015
£ ’000
2014
£ ’000
Investment in MOCAP 235 217
The Group holds 15% of the share capital in MOCAP. The investment was valued at £235,000 as at 31 January 2015 (2014: £217,000), 
the movement of which was attributable to the impact of foreign exchange. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 81
Principal subsidiaries and branches
The details of the principal subsidiary companies and branches owned directly or indirectly by the Company as at 31 January 2015 were 
as follows.
Name of company Country of 
incorporation and 
operation
Proportion of 
ordinary share 
capital and 
voting rights 
Principal activity
Harvey Nash AG Switzerland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash BV The Netherlands 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash GmbH Germany 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash IT Consulting NV Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash NV Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash plc England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash SA France 100% Recruitment consultancy
Impact Executives Ltd England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Mortimer Spinks Limited England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash Inc USA 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash (Ireland) Ltd Ireland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Alumni AB Sweden 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash (Vietnam) Ltd Vietnam 100% Software development
Harvey Nash Consulting (Scotland) Limited Scotland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Fila & Myszel Associates Sp. Poland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Bjerke & Luther AS Norway 100% Recruitment consultancy
Talent-IT BVBA Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Beaumont KK Japan 100% Recruitment consultancy
In addition to the companies shown above, the Group also holds investments in a number of other subsidiary undertakings which in the 
Directors’ opinion do not significantly affect the figures in the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with section 410(2)(a) of 
the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries was annexed to the 2014 annual return and submitted to Companies House. A full list 
of subsidiaries will be submitted to Companies House during 2015.
All subsidiary companies are consolidated. The Directors believe that the book value of investments is supported by their underlying net 
assets.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital in Beaumont KK on 21 August 2014. The initial consideration paid was £0.4m, with 
a further amount payable contingent on the performance of the business over the period from the date of acquisition until  
30 June 2017. Contingent consideration of £0.5m has been recognised as at 31 January 2015 in respect of this. Further detail of the 
acquisition is provided within note 31.
Contingent consideration of £2.0m has also been recognised as at 31 January 2015 (2014: £2.1m) in respect of the estimated consideration 
due on completion of the earnout period which commenced on acquisition of Talent-IT. The three-year earnout period ends in March 
2015. 82 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, bank overdraft, invoice discounting and various items such as trade receivables and trade 
payables that arise directly from its operations. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is approximately equal to their book values.
Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to risk management. An explanation of the role that financial 
instruments have had during the year in the management of the Group’s funding liquidity and foreign exchange is provided within note 3.
In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, the Group has reviewed all contracts and confirmed 
that none contain embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set 
out in the standard. There were no embedded derivatives at 31 January 2015.
The Group held no derivative financial instruments at 31 January 2015 (2014: none) requiring to be fair valued. 
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following committed facilities available in respect of a UK overdraft with a maximum facility of £2.0m at 31 January 2015 
(2014: £2.0m).
In February 2013, the Group increased its invoice discounting facility to £50.0m for the Group as a whole. The facility was allocated 
across the Group’s operations as follows: £25.0m in the UK, the euro equivalent of £15.0m shared between Ireland and the Netherlands, 
£5.0m in Belgium, and the US dollar equivalent of £5.0m in the USA.
The overdraft facilities are repayable on demand and the invoice discounting facilities are available on a rolling 12-month basis. All 
conditions precedent to the overdraft and invoice discounting were met at 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2014. 
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Fixed rate
’000
Floating rate
’000
2015 
Total
’000
2014 
Total
’000
Overdraft £ – 2,000 2,000 1,638
Invoice discounting facilities – UK £ – 12,948 12,948 15,786
Invoice discounting facilities – Belgium € – 6,655 6,655 6,082
Invoice discounting facilities – Netherlands € – 19,964 19,964 18,245
Invoice discounting facilities – USA $ – 251 251 4,166
Undrawn borrowing facilities
Fixed rate
£’000
Floating 
rate
£’000
2015 
Total
£’000
2014
Total
£’000
Overdraft – 2,000 2,000 1,638
Invoice discounting facilities – UK – 12,948 12,948 15,786
Invoice discounting facilities – Belgium – 5,000 5,000 5,000
Invoice discounting facilities – Netherlands – 15,000 15,000 15,000
Invoice discounting facilities – USA – 167 167 2,526
Total – 35,115 35,115 39,950
Drawn borrowing facilities
Fixed rate
’000
Floating rate
’000
2015 
Total
’000
2014 
Total
’000
Overdraft £ – – – 362
Invoice discounting facilities – UK £ – 12,052 12,052 9,214
Invoice discounting facilities – Belgium € – – – –
Invoice discounting facilities – Netherlands € – – – –
Invoice discounting facilities – USA $ – 7,259 7,259 4,083
Drawn borrowing facilities
Fixed rate
£’000
Floating rate
£’000
2015 
Total
£’000
2014 
Total
£’000
Overdraft – – – 362
Invoice discounting facilities – UK – 12,052 12,052 9,214
Invoice discounting facilities – Belgium – – – –
Invoice discounting facilities – Netherlands – – – –
Invoice discounting facilities – USA – 4,833 4,833 2,474
Total – 16,885 16,885 12,050 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 83
28. Dividends 
The dividends paid in the year were £2.4m (2014: £2.2m).
The proposed final dividend of £1.6m (2.171p per share) is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 2 July 
2015 (2014: 1.974p per share amounting to £1.4m) and has not been included as a liability at 31 January 2015.
2015
£ ’000
Final dividend for year ended 31 January 2014 of 1.974p per share 1,441
Interim dividend for year ended 31 January 2015 of 1.360p per share 987
2,428
Proposed final dividend for year ended 31 January 2015 of 2.171p per share 1,575
2014
£ ’000
Final dividend for year ended 31 January 2013 of 1.795p per share 1,317
Interim dividend for year ended 31 January 2014 of 1.238p per share 908
2,225
 
29. Provisions 
 2015
£ ’000
At 1 February 2014 1,142
Foreign exchange movements (30)
Charge in the year 266
Utilised in the year (964)
At 31 January 2015 414
Provisions relate to termination costs for employees in Germany, the closure of French operations and the restructure of our Norwegian 
operations.
All provisions fall due within one year.
30. Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items of £1.3m were incurred in the year, of which £0.6m related to the strategic review of Nash Technologies and 
relocation of laboratory assets. £0.5m related to the restructuring of Norwegian operations leaving the business well placed to capitalise 
on future opportunities. £0.2m was incurred in the UK in respect of the acquisition cost of Beaumont KK. The current year tax credit as a 
result of these items was £40,000.
Non-recurring costs of £2.6m were incurred in the prior year, of which £2.3m related to termination costs associated with the restructuring 
of the Nash Technologies business. Costs of £0.3m were incurred in respect of the closure of the French office. 84 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31. Business combinations
On 21 August 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Beaumont KK, a recruitment business in Tokyo, Japan, for an initial 
cash consideration of JPY 61,163,000 (£0.4m). The contingent consideration arrangements require the Group to pay the former owners 
of Beaumont KK based on a multiple of profit before tax, over threshold performance, for the three years ending August 2017 up to a 
maximum of JPY 81,077,000 (£0.5m). 
The acquired business contributed revenues of £271,000 and an operating loss of £24,000 to the Group for the period from acquisition 
to 31 January 2015. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 February 2014, consolidated revenue and consolidated profit for the year ended 
31 January 2015 would have been £696,641,000 and £5,256,000 respectively.
The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired is approximately equal to the acquiree’s carrying amount.
The excess of consideration above net asset values has been attributed in full to goodwill as no other intangible assets have been 
identified.
Details of the net assets acquired and the goodwill recognised were as follows.
£ ’000
Cash consideration 360
Contingent consideration 478
Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired (108)
Cost of goodwill recognised at date of acquisition (note 11) 730
Foreign exchange movements (note 11) (28)
Cost of goodwill at 31 January 2015 (note 11) 702
Acquisition-related costs amounted to £0.2m.
The assets and liabilities arising at the date of acquisition were as follows.
£ ’000
Tangible fixed assets 7
Cash 263
Receivables 218
Payables (291)
Bank loans (89)
Net identifiable assets acquired 108
The outflow of cash to acquire the business, net of cash acquired, was as follows.
£ ’000
Cash consideration 360
Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired (263)
Cash outflow on acquisition 97 Financial statements for the Parent Company 
Harvey Nash Group plc, the Company 
under UK GAAP 86 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 January 2015
       
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fixed assets
Investments 3 53,163 52,308
Current assets
Debtors 4 13,772 12,178
   
Current liabilities
Creditors due within one year 5 (2,637) (1,181)
   
Net current assets 11,135 10,997
Total assets less current liabilities 64,298 63,305
Creditors due after more than one year
Deferred consideration 6 (460) –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 6 (9,330) (11,338)
Net assets 54,508 51,967
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 7, 8 3,673 3,673
Share premium account 8 8,425 8,425
Capital contribution 8 20,000 20,000
Other reserves 8 13,875 13,858
Profit and loss account 8 8,535 6,011
Equity shareholders’ funds 9 54,508 51,967
The financial statements on pages 86 to 90 were approved by the Board on 29 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Julie Baddeley      Richard Ashcroft 
Chairman      Group Finance Director
Company Number: 03320790 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 87
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Basis of preparation
These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied 
consistently throughout the year, are set out below.
As allowed by section 408 Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Parent Company. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to parent companies under paragraph 3C of FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosure and Presentation’ not to provide the information otherwise required by paragraphs 51 to 95 of the standard, as the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provides equivalent disclosures under IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996), 
since it is included in the consolidated financial statements of Harvey Nash Group plc, which are publicly available.
2. Accounting policies
(a) Foreign exchange
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date and any differences arising are 
taken to the profit and loss account.
(b) Taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full for material timing differences except where recoverability of a deferred tax asset is considered to 
be remote in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax balances are not discounted unless the effects are considered to be material to the 
Company’s results.
(c) Investments 
Investments held as fixed assets are shown at cost less provision for impairment. Impairment reviews are conducted annually.
(d) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under paragraph 3(c) from the provisions of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’, on the 
grounds that it is a wholly owned subsidiary of a group headed by Harvey Nash Group plc, whose financial statements are publicly available.
(e) Dividend distributions
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
3. Investments
Fixed asset investments
£ ’000
Shares in Group undertakings
At 1 February 2014 52,308
Acquisition of Beaumont KK 838
Share options 17
At 31 January 2015 53,163
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
The carrying value of the investments was tested against discounted future cash flows during the year. The forecasts were based on pre-
tax cash flows derived from approved budgets for FY15–FY17. Management believe the forecasts are reasonably achievable. Where the 
future cash flows could not support the carrying value, an impairment would be recognised. 88 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principal subsidiaries and associates
The details of the principal subsidiary companies and branches owned directly or indirectly by the Company or Harvey Nash plc as at 31 
January 2015 were as follows.
Name of company Country of incorporation 
and operation
Proportion of 
ordinary share capital 
and voting rights 
Principal activity
Harvey Nash AG Switzerland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash BV The Netherlands 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash GmbH Germany 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash IT Consulting NV Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash NV Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash plc England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash SA France 100% Recruitment consultancy
Impact Executives Ltd England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Mortimer Spinks Limited England 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash Inc USA 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash (Ireland) Ltd Ireland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Alumni AB Sweden 100% Recruitment consultancy
Harvey Nash (Vietnam) Ltd Vietnam 100% Software development
Harvey Nash Consulting (Scotland) Limited Scotland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Fila & Myszel Associates Sp. Poland 100% Recruitment consultancy
Bjerke & Luther AS Norway 100% Recruitment consultancy
Talent-IT BVBA Belgium 100% Recruitment consultancy
Beaumont KK Japan 100% Recruitment consultancy
4. Debtors
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 13,772 12,178
Interest is charged at market rate on intercompany funding balances in accordance with formal loan agreements between the parties. 
5. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
       
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 359 273
Bank overdraft 2,268 908
Other 10 –
Total 2,637 1,181
6. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Deferred consideration 460 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 9,330 11,338
Total 9,790 11,338
Interest is charged on intercompany funding balances in accordance with formal loan agreements between the parties. HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / 89
7. Share capital
    
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Authorised
110,000,000 (2014: 110,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 5,500 5,500
Allotted and fully paid
73,450,393 ordinary shares of 5p each (2014: 73,450,393) 3,673 3,673
8. Reserves 
Share 
capital
Share 
premium
Capital 
contribution
Other 
reserves
Profit 
and loss 
account
Total equity
  £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000 £ ’000
Balance at
1 February 2014 3,673 8,425 20,000 13,858 6,011 51,967
Employee share options charge – – – 17 – 17
Dividends received 3,831
3,831
Dividends paid – – – – (2,428) (2,428)
Profit for the year (note 10) – – – – 43 43
Exchange movements – – – – 1,078 1,078
31 January 2015 3,673 8,425 20,000 13,875 8,535 54,508
The share premium reserve comprises share premium on the issued share capital.
The capital contribution reserve was created on flotation. 
The other reserves represents share premium on share capital issued in relation to the purchase of certain acquisitions.
9. Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit for the year (note 10) 43 132
Dividends received 3,831 –
Dividends paid (2,428) (2,225)
Exchange gain / (loss) 1,078 (138)
Shares to be issued – –
Share option charge (note 3) 17 30
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 2,541 (2,201)
Opening shareholders’ funds 51,967 54,168
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 54,508 51,967
Dividends are explained further in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. 
10. Profit attributed to the Parent Company
The profit for the year ended 31 January 2015 in the financial statements of Harvey Nash Group plc, the Company, was £43,000 (2014: 
£132,000). As allowed by s 408 Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Parent Company.
1 1. Employees and Directors
Harvey Nash Group plc, the Company, employed no staff in the year (2014: nil), other than Directors. Amounts paid by Harvey Nash Group 
plc, the Company, in respect of Directors in the year was nil (2014:nil). See the Remuneration Report in Harvey Nash Group plc accounts 
for full details of the Directors’ remuneration from the Group. 90 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Related party transactions
Group guarantees have been entered into by the companies listed below and relate to any payment due under the Banking agreement. 
The following companies have given security to Harvey Nash Group plc, the Company.
Name of company  Security  Security
Harvey Nash plc Group Guarantee Debenture
Harvey Nash Resource Management Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Interim Management In Information Technology Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Nash Direct Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Vertis Consulting Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Mortimer Spinks Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
TechPartners International Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Harvey Nash Group EBT Limited Group Guarantee –
Impact Executives Limited Group Guarantee Debenture
Broadbay Networks Inc Group Guarantee –
 
(a) Exercise of Bjerke & Luther Option
On 29 April 2013, the Company exercised its option to acquire the remaining 49.9% shareholding of Bjerke & Luther AS in Norway.
(b) Acquisition of remaining shareholding in Fila & Myszel Associates Sp.  
The Company acquired the remaining 25% shareholding in the Polish subsidiary in Fila & Myszel on 5 December 2013.
13. Share-based payments
Details of the share-based payments are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements (note 22).
14. Dividends
Details of the dividend payments are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements (note 28).
15. Post-balance-sheet events
There have been no significant events since the reporting date. 91 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC OFFICE LOCATIONS
Warsaw
Al. Jerozolimskie 56 C, 
00-803 Warszawa, Poland
Tel: +48 22 428 47 28
Oslo
Tordenskioldsgate 6   
0160 Oslo, Norway  
Tel: +47 22 40 40 80
USA
New Jersey
U.S. Corporate Headquarters, 
1680 Route 23 North, Suite 300, Wayne,
NJ  07470, USA
Tel: +1 (973) 646 2100
California
475 Sansome Street, Suite 1710
San Francisco, CA 94111, USA
Tel: +1 (720) 935-7433
Illinois
415 North LaSalle, Suite 202, Chicago,
IL 60654, USA
Tel: +1 (312) 379 7470
Houston
11152 Westheimer Road, Suite 1010
Houston, TX 77042, USA
Tel: +1 (281) 574-7516
Colorado 
Legacy Center, 5613 DTC Parkway, Suite 580
Greenwood Village, CO 80111
Tel:+1 (303) 244-9608
New York 
60 E 42nd Street, Suite 2206, New York,
NY 10165, USA
Tel: +1 (212) 481 1317
Massachusetts
844 Franklin Street, Unit 5A
Wrentham, MA 02093, USA
Tel: +1 (508) 384-3806
Washington
2101 Fourth Avenue, Suite 720, Seattle
WA 98121, USA
Tel: +1 (206) 956 9200
ASIA PACIFIC
Vietnam
Hanoi, Unit 702, 6th Floor, HITC Building,
239 Xuan Thuy Road, Cau Giay District,
Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: +84 (0)4 834 2050 
Ho Chi Minh City, e.town, 364 Cong Hoa Street,
Tan Binh District, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Tel: +84 (0)8 810 6200
Hong Kong
Unit 1501, 15/F, Henley Building,
5 Queens Road, Central, Hong Kong
Tel: +852  2251 8393
Sydney
Suite 3.01, Level 3, 55 Hunter Street,
Sydney NSW 2000, Australia
Tel: +61 (0) 2 8072 1100
Tokyo
Level 14, Hibiya Central Building 1-2-9
Nishi Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0003
Tel: +81 3 5532 8663
EUROPE
London
110 Bishopsgate,
London, EC2N 4AY, UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7333 0033
Birmingham
4301 Waterside Centre, Birmingham Business Park,
West Midlands, B37 7YN, UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 717 1919/1900
Leeds
Marshalls Mill, Marshall Street,
Leeds, LS11 9YJ, UK
Tel: +44 (0)113 202 8900
Manchester
Lowry House, Spring Gardens,
Manchester, M2 3AW, UK
Tel: +44 (0)161 638 8770
Newcastle 
Rotterdam House, 116 Quayside, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 3DY, UK
Tel: +44 (0) 191 249 4070
Bristol 
Ten Victoria Street,
Bristol, BS1 6BN, UK
Tel. +44 (0)117 313 9555
Warrington 
Dallam Court, Dallam Lane
Warrington WA2 7LT, UK
Tel: +44 (0)1925 696 300
Edinburgh
83 Princes Street
Edinburgh EH2 2ER, UK
Tel: +44 (0)131 460 4312
Glasgow
2 West Regent Street
Glasgow G2 1RW, UK
Tel: +44 (0) 141 343 3283
Dublin
Unit 2, 51 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay,
Dublin 2, Ireland
Tel: +353 (0)1 6741400
Cork 
Regus Building 1000, City Gate,
Mahon, Cork, Ireland
Tel: + 353 (0) 21 6019016
Antwerp
Indiëstraat 2 
B-2000 Antwerpen, Belgium
Tel: +32 3 870 51 51
Brussels
Westpoint Park, ‘t Hofveld 6c, 
B-1702, Groot-Bijgaarden, Belgium
Tel: +32 (0)2 463 1430 
Ghent
Kortrijksesteenweg 62
B-9830 Sint-Martens-Latem, Belgium
Tel : +32 (0)9 321 73 00
Paris
121, avenue des Champs Elysées, 75008 
Paris, France
Tel: +33 (0)1 73 02 67 90 
Düsseldorf
Graf-Adolf-Platz 15, D-40213 
Düsseldorf, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)211 17 93 92 0
 
Stuttgart
Büchsenstrasse 10, D-70173
Stuttgart, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)711 207 05 0
Nash Technologies
Lorenzstrasse 10, 70435
Stuttgart, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)711 33 501 11 48 
 
Frankfurt
Herriotstrasse, D-60528
Frankfurt, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)69 677 33 269 
 
Munich
Leonrodstrasse 52
D-80636 München, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)89 839306 0 
Hamburg
Hamburg Fleethof, Stadthausbrücke 3
D-20355 Hamburg, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)40 376 44 546
Nürnberg
Dr.-Gustav-Heinemann-Strasse 10
D-90491 Nürnberg, Germany
Tel: +49 (0)911 308740
Utrecht
Industrieweg 4
Maarssen, 3606 AS
Tel:+31 (0)346 581 070
Groningen
Verlengde Hereweg 173,
Groningen, 9721 AP, The Netherlands
Tel: +31 (0)507 600 017
Zürich
Badenerstrasse 15, Postfach, CH-8021, 
Zürich, Switzerland
Tel: +41 (0)44 296 88 44   
Geneva
Rue Pierre Fatio 10,
1204 Genève, Switzerland
Tel: +41 (0)22 319 35 55
Luxembourg
5, rue Guillaume Kroll
L-1882 Luxembourg
Tel: +352 (0) 26 30 651
Stockholm
WorldTradeCenter, Kungsbron 1, Box 843,
101 36 Stockholm, Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 796 17 00
Gothenburg
Södra Larmgatan 20,
411 16 Göteborg, Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)31 60 42 90
Malmö
Kärleksgatan 2A,
211 45 Malmö, Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)40 35 48 70
Copenhagen
Business Center, Havnegade 39,
1058 Copenhagen K, Denmark
Tel: +45 (0)77 99 32 60
Helsinki
Unionsgatan 22
00130 Helsinki, Finland
Tel: +358 50 599 6821 Harvey Nash Group plc
www.harveynash.com
