 FOCUS 
& SCALE
HAYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OVERVIEW
2 Fast Read 
4 Financial Highlights 
5 Chairman’s Statement 
STRATEGIC REPORT
6 Our Investment Case 
7 Our Business Model 
10 Our Business Model in Action 
12 Market Overview 
14 Chief Executive’s Review 
22 Divisional Operating Review 
28 Key Performance Indicators 
30 Financial Review 
34 Principal Risks 
36 Corporate Responsibility Report 
 
GOVERNANCE
42 Chairman’s Statement 
44 Board of Directors 
46 Corporate Governance Statement 
52 Nomination Committee Report 
54 Audit Committee Report 
58 Directors’ Report 
61 Remuneration Report 
78 Directors’ Responsibilities
FINANCIAL ST ATEMENTS
79 Independent Auditor’s Report
83  Consolidated Group Financial 
Statements
110  Hays plc Company Financial Statements
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
119 Shareholder Information
FOLLOW HAYS
Investor Relations 
@haysplcir
FOLLOW HAYS  
linkedin.com/ 
company/hays
FEEDBACK  
ir@hays.com
LATEST INSIGHTS  
haysplc.com Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 1
WE HAVE WORLD-CLASS EXPERTISE 
BUILDING WORLD-CLASS BUSINESSES.
WE ARE HA YS.
  haysplc.com KEY FY15 STATISTICS
2 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FOCUS  
& SCALE
WHA T DO WE DO?
We are leading global experts in qualified, 
professional and skilled recruitment and 
employ 9,023 people around the world.  
Every day our expert consultants help 
thousands of candidates find their next  
role, and they also help clients reshape 
workforces and deal with talent shortages.
 6 3 , 000
PERMANENT ROLES  
FILLED
 200,000
TEMPORARY  
ASSIGNMENTS  
PLACED
20
SPECIALISMS
33
COUNTRIES
36m
HITS ON HAYS
WEBSITES 
HOW ARE WE ORGANISED?
We group our 33 country businesses  
into three regions: Asia Pacific; Continental 
Europe & Rest Of World (CE&RoW); and  
the UK & Ireland.
 Divisional Operating Review p22
NET FEES
 Asia Pacific £178.5m
 CE&RoW £313.8m
 UK & I £271.9m
OPERATING PROFIT
 Asia Pacific £49.7m
 CE&RoW £68.7m
 UK & I £45.7m
 10 m
CVs RECEIVED
OVERVIEW
FAST READ Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 3
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
WHA T ARE OUR STRA TEGIC PRIORITIES?
ONE: 
MATERIALLY
INCREASE AND
DIVERSIFY GROUP
PROFITS 
2015 PROGRESS:
On track regarding our 
2018 aspiration to broadly  
double group profits 
TWO: 
GENERATE AND
DISTRIBUTE
MEANINGFUL
CASH RETURNS 
2015 PROGRESS:
Strong operating  
profit and cash  
performance 
THREE: 
BUILD CRITICAL
MASS AND SCALE
ACROSS OUR
GLOBAL PLATFORM 
2015 PROGRESS:
Continued roll-out of  
our contracting model;  
Veredus acquisition in the US 
FOUR: 
POSITION THE
GROUP FOR
LONG-TERM
STRUCTURAL
GROWTH
OPPORTUNITIES 
2015 PROGRESS:
Continued rapid,
targeted investment in less  
mature markets
HOW DID WE PERFORM  
THIS YEAR?
NET FEE INCOME
(1)
(2014: £724.9m)
£764.2m
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
(2014: 6.13p)
7 .44p
OPERATING PROFIT
(1)
(2014: £140.3m)
£164.1m
CASH CONVERSION
(2)
(2014: 125%)
116%
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(2014: 2.63p)
2.76p
 Financial Review p30
HOW DO WE CREA TE VALUE?
The scale, balance and diversity of  
our business model makes us unique  
in our industry.
The breadth of our expertise by contract type, geography and 
specialism positions us well to withstand the different stages  
of the macroeconomic cycle.
Expert local teams with sector-leading technology, supported  
by a world-class brand, enable us to consistently create value  
for our candidates, clients, employees and shareholders.
 Our Business Model p7
 Chief Executive’s Review p14
WHA T WAS THE  
MARKET BACKDROP?
Market conditions were supportive in  
the vast majority of countries, including  
our three core profit drivers:
AUSTRALIA
Returned to growth, led by Perm in the non-mining states,  
though mining regions were tough.
GERMANY
Regulatory uncertainty persisted in Temp markets, but trading 
conditions remained good throughout the year.
UK & IRELAND
Continued broad-based market recovery  
increased confidence levels across the UK.
 
 Market Overview p12
WHA T IS OUR  
INVESTMENT CASE?
1  The strength of our business model by 
sector and contract type…
2  …with a balanced exposure to both mature 
and structural growth markets…
3  …drives superior financial performance 
through the cycle…
4  …and generates significant cash flow  
and dividend potential.
 Our Investment Case p6
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2) Cash conversion is the conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow (before exceptional items and capital expenditure). 4 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GROWTH  
& LEVERAGE
OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
764.2
734.0
672.1
719.0
724.9
NET FEES (£M)
(1)
 Up 9 %
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
21.5%
17.5%
17.0%
17.5%
19.4%
CONVERSION RATE
(2)
 Up 210 bps
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
164.1
128.1
114.1
125.5
140.3
OPERATING PROFIT (£M)
(1)
 U p 2 5%
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
116%
127%
85%
109%
125%
CASH CONVERSION
(3)
 O f 1 1 6%
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
7.44p
5.47p
5.19p
5.14p
6.13p
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (PENCE)
 U p 2 1%
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
2.76p
2.50p
5.80p
2.50p
2.63p
CORE DIVIDEND PER SHARE (PENCE)
 U p 5%
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency. 
(2) Cash conversion is the conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow (before exceptional items and capital expenditure).
(3) Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items). GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 5
STRATEGIC REPORT
PERFORMANCE 
& PROGRESS 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
growth of 25%
(1)
 and EPS growth of  
21%
(1)
. Taking into account this financial 
performance, and in line with our policy of 
building dividend cover towards 3x earnings, 
the Board proposes to increase to the full  
year core dividend by 5%. 
The Hays business is broad-based, well 
diversified and balanced. We have grown  
into new geographies and new sector 
specialisms, primarily through organic 
replication of our business, supplemented  
by acquisitions when appropriate. 
This year we completed the acquisition  
of Veredus Corp., a US-based IT staffing 
company, which has provided us with  
a great platform to build scale rapidly  
in what is the world’s largest recruitment 
market. This, along with our existing 
worldwide operations, enables us to serve  
the needs of our multinational clients and  
our internationally mobile candidates by 
offering them a truly global service around 
the clock, delivered around the world by 
talented local experts. This scale and breadth 
makes us unique in the world of specialist 
recruitment, and is a key driver of the  
Group’s success.
I and the Board have had the opportunity  
to visit many Hays offices this year in 
countries such as Germany, France and the 
US and have, as ever, been greatly impressed 
by the professionalism, talent and expertise  
of our people. Everyone in the Group shares 
the same aim of making Hays the world’s 
pre-eminent specialist recruitment business 
and their drive and commitment has 
underpinned this year’s strong financial  
and operational performance. I would 
therefore like to thank everyone in the Group 
for their contribution over the last 12 months 
and we look forward to another successful 
year in 2016. 
ALAN THOMSON
CHAIRMAN
“ In 2015 we have delivered 
a strong set of results 
with excellent operating 
profit growth and a 
strong cash performance. 
We have also made 
further strategic progress, 
notably completing the 
acquisition of Veredus in 
the US.”
We delivered good net fee growth of 9%
(1)
,  
as we capitalised on continued strength  
in the majority of our markets, further 
improvements in the UK and a return to 
growth in Australia. We converted this net  
fee growth into excellent operating profit  6 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRENGTH  
& DELIVERY 
STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR INVESTMENT CASE
1
THE STRENGTH  
OF OUR BUSINESS 
MODEL BY SECTOR 
AND CONTRACT 
TYPE… 
• We have built a global platform with unrivalled scale, balance  
and diversity
• Balanced exposure across permanent, temporary and contractor 
recruitment markets
• Execution in local markets built on the best people, sector-leading 
technology and a world-class brand
• Strong operational and senior regional management across the Group
• All focused on delivering the best solutions for clients and 
candidates  
COUNTRIES
 3 3
SPECIALISMS
 20
2
…WITH A BALANCED 
EXPOSURE TO  
BOTH MATURE AND 
STRUCTURAL 
GROWTH MARKETS… 
• Many markets across our global platform represent clear  
structural growth opportunities
• Growth in these immature markets is driven by first-time 
outsourcing of the recruitment of skilled staff
• 37% of our Group net fees are generated in these structural growth 
markets such as Germany, Latin America and Japan 
• 63% of our Group net fees are generated in mature markets such  
as UK & Ireland, Australia and North America 
GROUP NET FEES
 Mature markets
 Structural growth markets
3
…DRIVES SUPERIOR 
FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE 
THROUGH THE  
CYCLE… 
• We remain on track to deliver on our aspiration to broadly  
double 2013’s operating profit of £125 million to £250 million  
in 2018
• As well as delivering this profit growth, we remain focused  
on diversifying the make-up of our profitability
• We continue to generate sector-leading conversion rates  
with superior leverage of our net fee growth into operating  
profit growth
FY15 OPERATING PROFIT
 £ 1 6 4 .1 m
DROP-THROUGH OF NET FEE 
GROWTH INTO OPERATING 
PROFIT GROWTH
 5 1%
4
…AND GENERATES 
SIGNIFICANT CASH 
FLOW AND DIVIDEND 
POTENTIAL.
• Delivering our plan would allow us to generate material cash 
returns, build a net cash position and grow the Group’s dividend 
• We target dividend cover of 2–3x earnings across the economic 
cycle and are building cover towards the upper end of this range
• Once we have built a net cash position of c.£50 million, any free 
cash generated over and above this level will be distributed to 
shareholders annually when the business is growing, most likely  
as a special dividend, supplementing the core dividend
CASH CONVERSION
(1)
116%
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
 2 . 7 6 p
63%
37%
 For more information, see p7
 For more information, see p8
 For more information, see p31
 For more information, see p33
(1)  Cash conversion is the conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow (before exceptional items and capital expenditure). STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 7
RESILIENCE  
& BREADTH 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
We focus on the segment of  
the recruitment market referred 
to as professional, ‘white  
collar’ skilled or specialist 
recruitment. The salary of the 
candidates we place ranges 
from roughly £20,000 p.a.  
to £130,000. 
Our fees, which are paid by  
the client, are calculated as  
a percentage of the salary  
of the candidate placed.
BALANCED EXPOSURE ACROSS MARKETS IS KEY TO OUR MODEL
HAYS FOCUS 
NET FEE POOL
Generalist  
‘blue collar’ 
staffing
SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT 
CONTINGENT FEE MODEL  
FOCUSED ON HIGHLY SKILLED 
ROLES IN CLEAR STRUCTURAL 
GROWTH MARKETS
Executive search
INDICATIVE SALARY RANGE OF HAYS PLACEMENTS
MARKET SEGMENT
£130k
£20k
HOW WE GENERATE FEES
We believe that having a 
balanced exposure within and 
between our markets is the key 
to driving superior and resilient 
financial performance, and 
better results for our clients, 
through the economic cycle. 
Specialism Regions Contract type Clients Sector
42%
Permanent
58%
Temporary
83%
Private
c.85%
Other clients
23%
Asia Paciﬁc
34%
Other
16%
Construction
& Property
8%
O�ce Support
8%
Engineering
18%
Information
Technology
16%
Accountancy 
& Finance
41%
CE&RoW
17%
Public
c.15%
Top 40
36%
UK &
Ireland
THE STRUCTURE OF THE GLOBAL RECRUITMENT MARKET
BREADTH OF EXPERTISE 8 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED
PEOPLE 
Hays is the ultimate people business.  
Our success relies on hiring, retaining  
and training the best expert recruitment 
consultants and operational management 
in the industry. To do this, we have 
dedicated recruitment teams  
in every major business, award-winning 
attraction tools and the best formal  
training programmes in the market. 
TECHNOLOGY
In today’s data-rich world it is essential 
that our people are equipped with the 
latest technology tools and products. This 
philosophy is at the heart of our business. 
Recognising and responding to the fact 
that clients and candidates interact with  
us in multiple evolving ways using various 
different channels, such as web or mobile,  
is key, as is providing the technology 
solutions demanded by our clients. 
BRAND
A world-class global brand positions Hays 
as the leader in the specialist recruitment 
market. Our reputation is key and we  
focus on building and enhancing it by 
supplementing our core brand with 
thought–leadership products such as  
The Hays Journal, Hays Global Skills  
Index and various salary guides. This is  
all designed to enhance the perceptions  
of Hays as leader in the world of work. 
EXPERT LOCAL TEAMS WITH WORLD-CLASS 
TOOLS AND SERVICES DRIVE OUTPERFORMANCE
Delivering world-class results for clients and candidates every day in local  
markets relies on having the best people in our industry. We believe that  
by equipping them with the latest technology tools and products, and  
a world-class brand we can be even more effective. 
The right-hand side of the chart 
shows that 63% of our Group 
net fees are generated in 
mature markets such as UK  
& Ireland. Here we have 
established scale and can 
generate high levels of profit 
growth and cash generation 
when the market environments 
are favourable.
On the left side are clear 
structural growth opportunities 
where we earn 37% of our net 
fees. Often these are well- 
developed economies, such  
as Germany or Japan, where 
the use of recruitment firms  
to source skilled candidates 
remains a relatively recent 
development.
UNRIVALLED SCALE, BALANCE AND DIVERSITY
LatAm, 
Russia & 
Rest of 
CE&RoW 
 
Asia Germany Australia &
New Zealand  
 
France,
Canada &
Netherlands
UK & Ireland
29% Temp
71% Perm
35% Perm 
65% Temp 57% Temp 30%
70%
14%
37% Group net fees 63% Group net fees
STRUCTURAL/IMMATURE CYCLICAL/MORE MATURE
11% Perm
86%
89% Temp
43% Perm
0–30% MARKET PENETRATION
(1)
>70% PENETRATION
(1)(2)
>30–70% PENETRATION
(1)
(1)  Market penetration represents the percentage of skilled and professional recruitment that is outsourced, based on Hays’ management estimates.
(2)  USA considered a more mature market but excluded from the chart for business size reasons (1% of Group net fees).
NET FEES BY GEOGRAPHY, TYPE, AND MARKET MATURITY STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 9
CANDIDATES
CVs
OUR MODEL GENERA TES CLEAR  
OUTCOMES FOR ALL ST AKEHOLDERS 
Our business has been deliberately built to ensure we drive maximum 
financial performance at all stages of the economic cycle. This is what  
sets Hays apart.
We work with candidates to help them find their next permanent 
job or temporary assignment. In many cases this is a life-changing 
event. We work to understand every candidate we place, interviewing 
them all to ensure we provide them the best opportunity to match 
their needs. This year alone we received 10 million CVs and placed 
around 63,000 people into their new permanent roles and 200,000 
people into temporary assignments. 
10m
CLIENTS
ROLES FILLED
  Permanent
  Temporary
We work with clients to find the skilled people they need to help 
drive growth in their businesses. We help clients navigate and  
solve skills shortages in certain markets, and reshape workforces  
in others. Simultaneously we continuously evolve our product 
offering, and how we meet the needs of our clients, both large  
and small, as those needs change. 
EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 2015
84%
Our ability to attract, train and develop people is the key  
to our business. Hays’ employee engagement survey tracks  
our employees’ sense of belonging, discretionary effort, personal 
motivation and job satisfaction. In FY15 employee engagement  
was again very high. Over the year we conducted more than  
3,000 training days globally and 240 senior managers have  
now attended our Fast Forward and Advanced Management 
leadership programmes. 
SHAREHOLDERS
TWO-YEAR TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
(1)
91%
Jun 13
Sep 13
Dec 13
Dec 14
Sep 14
Jun 14
Mar 14
Jun 15
Mar 15
Hays +91%
FTSE 250 +34%
The breadth, scale and balance of our business model allows  
us to deliver superior financial performance through the  
cycle. Exposure to Temp markets adds resilience to earnings  
in more challenging times and our large Perm business ensures 
rapid earnings growth in better markets. This, combined with our 
focus on working capital management and the cash generative 
nature of the business, means we have the potential to return 
meaningful cash to shareholders as our business grows.
200,000
63,000
(1) Total shareholder return combines share price performance and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder as an annualised percentage. 10 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GLOBAL 
& LOCAL
STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION
Cross-discipline recruitment with Vodafone  
New Zealand
Hays is the market-leading specialist recruitment company in New Zealand,  
having operated in the country since 1999. Our breadth of experience and 
technical expertise across a large range of specialisms enables us to act as  
a key partner to many of the leading companies in the country.
We have worked closely with Vodafone New Zealand for over a decade. 
Last year we made more than 500 permanent placements for the company  
across many varied divisions including Technology, Finance, Human Resources 
and Systems Engineering. We work with the client to provide expert advice 
throughout the recruitment lifecycle; from initial briefing discussions through  
to advertising, social media campaigns, testing, screening and compliance.
ASIA PACIFIC CE&ROW
Working across France to source talent with  
Crédit Agricole
Hays works with a variety of established companies in the financial sector with 
clients looking to fill Permanent and Temporary roles. We have been a major 
supplier of Temporary employees to Crédit Agricole across France since 2007 
and last year developed the relationship further to place over 250 Permanent 
candidates with them in Strasbourg. Following that success we have evolved the 
relationship further this year, placing Permanent candidates across Lille, Lyon, 
Tours and Paris. Additionally we are now working with Crédit Agricole to build  
a management training plan. 
Stéphane Bourdareau, HR Director, noted: “The partnership we have built with Hays 
has enabled us to achieve our recruitment goals. Hays is always able to react quickly 
and mobilise local resources to answer our specific and individual needs, offering 
valuable advice on the appropriate processes to secure the best candidates.”
Working with IT leaders in the UK to develop 
teams and careers
At the heart of how we work are the strong, long-standing relationships we  
build with candidates and clients. Over the past nine years Hays has placed 
Wendy Naisby, a senior IT specialist, into roles at Virgin Group, Gada Group,  
and most recently Moët Hennessy Europe (LVMH). In her current position as 
European IT Director, Wendy has also worked with Hays to fill roles within her 
own team and she often attends our client-focused events. 
Wendy noted: “Since I moved to the UK, Hays has not only successfully placed 
me in key positions, but has also effectively managed my career progression.  
My experience is that Hays differentiates itself in the market by working hard  
to understand your profile and ambition, developing its relationship with you 
through impressive online thought-leadership articles and hosting worthwhile 
events. My consultants are experts in their fields and I have enjoyed working 
with them to fill important roles within my respective teams.”
UK & IRELAND STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 11
GLOBAL EXPERTS AND LOCAL SPECIALISTS
Our business model is designed to allow our consultants across 33 countries 
to deliver the best solutions for clients and candidates in every local market. 
Supported by an array of local marketing events, this year we filled over 
1,000 jobs every working day around the world.
ASIA PACIFIC
The annual Hays Salary Guide launch was attended by  
over 4,000 clients and journalists across 30 events and  
seven countries in Asia Pacific. A variety of Hays Directors 
presented our 2015 Hays Salary Guide findings, discussing 
salary movements, hiring intentions, employment trends  
and economic outlooks. Guests also 
presenting included speakers from 
Standard Chartered Bank, NAB,  
ANZ Bank and Suncorp.
ASIA
Hays spoke to 145 CFOs in Asia 
about their background, experience, 
business, career and interests to 
uncover the ‘DNA of a CFO’. A 
detailed paper was launched across 
five countries with over 200 clients, 
candidates and journalists attending 
events in Tokyo, Shanghai, Beijing 
and Guangzhou. Hays Directors 
presented the findings of the report 
and guest speakers, including  
CFOs from Armstrong Investment, 
Domino’s Pizza, Sirius Wells and 
Lafarge, all shared their advice.
SALARY GUIDE LAUNCH ATTENDEES
4,000+
UNITED STATES 
In December 2014 Hays completed the 
acquisition of Veredus, a pure-play IT staffing 
company headquartered in Florida. This year  
we sponsored the Enterprise Project World 
Conference, an event that was hosted in Orlando 
and brought together project managers from  
top listed global companies. By supporting the 
event, our IT consultants were able to network 
directly with over 120 professional experts in the 
field of Project Management. This included a 
combination of customers and consultants that 
consisted of CIOs, CTOs, project managers, 
directors, managers and project leaders, 
enabling our consultants to build valuable 
relationships at all levels.
GERMANY
Hays-Forum is a series of events that provides  
a platform for our German team to share 
knowledge with over 1,500 clients and 
candidates each year across nine cities.  
At the events, we present our latest thought-
leadership findings, supported by a keynote 
speaker. This year Thomas Sattelberger, former 
Chief Human Resources Officer at Deutsche 
Telekom and a board member at Lufthansa, 
talked about the future vision of leadership 
in organisations and the working world  
as a whole.
UNITED KINGDOM
Over 100 senior women from 
companies such as Lloyds 
Banking Group, Goldman 
Sachs and Sainsbury’s 
attended the latest quarterly 
seminar hosted by Hays 
Leading Women. At this  
event Jay Surti, a business 
presentation mentor,  
gave advice on effective 
communication and talked 
about how to improve public 
speaking skills and bring 
gravitas to contributions  
made in meetings.
UNITED KINGDOM
More than 80 people from 
organisations such as PwC,  
Bank of England, Hewlett 
Packard and American Express 
attended an evening panel to 
discuss workforce diversity. 
Chaired by Robert Potter, Hays 
Group Human Resources 
Director, clients were invited to 
network and listen to our senior 
panel discuss how to build and  
retain a diverse workforce  
whilst exploring examples of 
recruitment best practice.
LEADING THE DEBATE
Every year we connect 
clients and candidates with  
the world of work through 
events that include 
inspirational speakers, 
coaching, seminars and 
networking opportunities. 12 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
MATURE  
& EMERGING 
STRATEGIC REPORT
MARKET OVERVIEW
The global specialist recruitment market is driven 
primarily by confidence among businesses to hire 
skilled people and candidate confidence to move 
jobs. We call this ‘job churn’.
In addition, we identify four further factors which drive our markets: the 
emergence of structural growth markets in specialist recruitment; skills 
shortages in certain recruitment markets; the globalisation of the flow  
of labour; and the macroeconomic cycle. 
LONGER-TERM  
KEY TRENDS
LABOUR FORCE EVOLUTIONS
These include the rise of the digital 
economy, increased IT spend and 
demand for more flexible, project-based 
work. This, together with the greater 
mobility of experienced workers and 
globalisation of jobs, is contributing to 
the increase in the number of people 
offering their skills as independent 
contractors. 
EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY
Technology is in many ways transforming 
how people work, enabling remote 
working and impacting on how clients 
and candidates engage and interact with 
the jobs market and with Hays. Also, the 
digitalisation of both supply and demand 
creates vast quantities of data to be 
analysed and put to use. 
CHANGING CLIENT BEHAVIOUR
Many companies are adding flexibility  
to their workforce by employing skilled 
people on a contract or project basis.  
In return, they benefit from a workforce 
that has been building up a wide 
portfolio of relevant experience.
CHANGING BUSINESS PRACTICES
These include increased outsourcing  
of recruitment in many immature 
markets around the world where most 
professional recruitment is still done 
in-house, as well as the increased levels 
of procurement seen in large corporates. 
STRUCTURAL 
GROWTH 
MARKETS
JOB
CHURN
SKILLS 
SHORTAGES
MACROECONOMIC 
CYCLE
GLOBALISATION 
OF THE FLOW  
OF LABOUR STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 13
In the US the Federal Reserve announced the 
end of the quantitative easing programme  
it started in 2008. By contrast, in Europe  
the European Central Bank initiated its  
own bond-purchasing programme as the 
single-currency block drifted into a period  
of deflation. The UK also witnessed a spell  
of deflation, for the first time since the 1960s, 
which was generally seen as benign and  
a boost to consumer spending. As a result, 
with inflation far below the Bank of England’s 
target of 2%, the prospects of an interest  
rate rise receded.
The UK took centre stage in the political arena 
during the year: Scotland voted to remain 
part of the UK and later in the year a new 
The year to June 2015 was characterised  
by improved conditions in several key 
markets, such as Australia and across 
mainland Europe, where many countries  
saw significantly better candidate sentiment 
after several tough years. Elsewhere, market 
conditions remained supportive overall in  
the vast majority of our countries.
Despite persisting Eurozone uncertainties, 
geopolitical instability in parts of the  
world such as the Middle East and Ukraine, 
and volatile conditions in energy markets, 
there has been a lack of major economic 
shocks or significant negative events in the 
year, which is key to supporting sentiment 
amongst our clients and candidates. Proposed 
legislation governing some German Temp  
and Contractor markets continued to be  
a source of uncertainty for certain client 
segments, impacting on their recruitment 
decision-making. In Australia the decline in 
commodity prices impacted activity levels in 
the resources-focused regions. Otherwise, the 
backdrop in our key markets remained good.
Major central banks maintained supportive 
monetary policy measures, with historic low 
interest rates in the UK and the US, and a 
further cut to the Eurozone’s base rate. China 
cut its benchmark interest rate three times in 
the space of six months, prompted by lower 
growth and declining property prices, while 
Australia also saw further cuts to its base 
rates fuelling a rise in property values in New 
South Wales and Victoria as well as driving 
down the Australian dollar, contributing to a 
general improvement in business confidence 
in the second half of the year.
government was formed, following a clear 
outcome from the UK general election. 
Elections also took place in Japan and Greece, 
with the latter result increasing speculation 
over a potential Greek exit from the Eurozone.
Looking ahead, the International  
Monetary Fund expects global growth  
to remain moderate, but overall conditions 
are expected to continue to see steady 
improvement. Therefore, although risks  
will continue to exist the outlook  
remains positive.
 Divisional Operating Reviews p22–27
ECONOMIC BACKDROP
The state of the macroeconomic cycle and outlook, and prevailing sentiment 
in our markets have a direct and often significant impact on activity levels. 
This can be both positive and negative, particularly with respect to the 
confidence levels of the businesses to invest, and candidates to move jobs.
UK 
CONTINUED BROAD-
BASED RECOVERY 
The UK economy continued its broad-
based recovery during the year, despite  
the sustained fragility and geopolitical 
instability in the neighbouring Eurozone 
weighing down optimism. There was a  
brief spell of deflation in the year, pushing 
further back a potential interest rate rise  
by the Bank of England. This, together with 
falling unemployment and rising wages,  
led to an increase in consumer and business 
confidence and a continuation in strong 
levels of activity in the Construction and 
Property sectors.
GERMANY
CONDITIONS  
REMAIN SOLID 
The German economy showed signs of 
resilience during the year despite being 
impacted by continuing challenges within 
the Eurozone, as well as lower growth  
in some of its other key export markets, 
including China. These were offset by 
increases in private consumption and 
investment in construction. Regulatory 
uncertainty in the labour market persisted 
and, as of the end of the year, the current 
coalition government had yet to ratify the 
proposed legislation governing some  
Temp and Contractor markets.
AUSTRALIA
RETURNED TO GROWTH 
BUT RESOURCES TOUGH
In Australia, overall sentiment improved 
during the year, despite there being  
a degree of caution over the differing 
conditions experienced across the regions. 
Mining investment remained subdued as 
iron ore and other commodities’ prices 
experienced unprecedented lows. After  
a series of interest rate cuts earlier in the 
year the economy experienced a transition 
phase led by the services sector, which 
showed signs of improvement especially 
during the latter part of the year.
Dec 14
Sep 14
Jun 14
Jun 15
Mar 15
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE OF MARKET INDICES
More optimistic sentiment was reflected in equity 
markets over the year.
  Australian ASX 200 +1.2%
 German DAX 30 +11.3%
 UK FTSE 250 +11.5% 14 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FOCUS 
& SCALE 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
KEY INSIGHTS INTO THE YEAR, FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE ALIST AIR COX
At the same time, they are dealing with 
greater levels of attrition as current 
employees become more confident and 
move jobs. All of this creates a vibrant 
recruitment market, exacerbated as the 
demand for skills in many sectors now 
exceeds supply. This in turn leads to wage 
inflation and skills shortages becoming 
more commonplace around the world.  
This increasing demand for talent enabled 
us to help over a quarter of a million people 
find their next job last year. That is real scale.  
In doing so, we worked with thousands of 
organisations in both the public and private 
sectors to find the skilled people they 
needed to build their businesses. We are 
proud of this and it is what we call Powering 
the World of Work. It is the role we play  
in helping to drive forward the world’s 
businesses, economies and societies  
and it is why we exist as a business.
In this section I’ll provide my view on how  
the Group has performed this year, as well  
as providing an update on the significant 
strategic and operational progress we have 
made over the last twelve months against the 
priorities I set out last year. Finally, I’ll outline 
our long-term goals and our key areas of 
focus for 2016. 
The role we play in the business world and 
society in general is an important one: to  
help our clients find the right person for the  
right job at the right time, and to help our 
candidates find the perfect role to develop 
the next stage of their own career. Every day, 
we work with organisations from the world’s 
largest to the smallest to help them find the 
talent they need to thrive and grow. As the 
global economy has continued to recover, 
many of our clients are investing in growing 
their workforce to cater for the increased 
demand for their products and services.  
 Feedback via ir@hays.com
  Follow Hays Investor 
Relations @haysplcir
  Follow Hays on LinkedIn 
linkedin.com/company/hays
“ We delivered growth in  
all of our core markets 
around the world for the 
first time since 2008.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 15
1
CONTINUE TO IMPROVE 
CONSULTANT 
PRODUCTIVITY
PRIORITIES WE SET OUT LAST YEAR:
• Equipping consultants with the  
best tools to make them as effective 
as possible
• Utilising new technologies
• Investing in and developing our 
training and development 
programmes worldwide
PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE IN 2015:
• UK & Ireland productivity up 3%, helping to drive 
£19.6 million
(1)
 divisional profit improvement
• Reinvested in Asia and Germany to drive  
future growth
• Group consultant average headcount, excluding  
the Veredus acquisition, up 9% in the year; 
Group net fees also up 9%
(1)
• Focus on training management and the 
effectiveness of all consultants
2
CONTINUE TO  
INVEST SELECTIVEL Y  
TO DRIVE PROFITABLE 
GROWTH
• Targeted investment in those 
businesses which need additional 
capacity
• Focus resources on those businesses 
best positioned to deliver meaningful 
contribution to the Group’s results 
over the next five years
• Take tough decisions to protect 
profitability where appropriate
• Group consultant closing headcount, excluding 
the Veredus acquisition, increased 9% in the 
year, as we added 464 consultants
• Headcount was targeted at high-growth 
markets such as Asia, up 20%, and Germany,  
up 14%, as we invested in the areas of our 
business which are focused on small- and 
medium-sized clients
3
BUILD SCALE ACROSS 
OUR PLATFORM
• Replicating the strength of our UK, 
Australia and Germany businesses  
in more countries around the world
• Be aggressive with investment in 
markets offering long-term growth 
opportunities such as US and Japan
• Completion of the Veredus acquisition in the US, 
providing the Group with a strong platform for 
growth in the world’s largest recruitment market
• Continued roll-out of our Contracting model to 
capitalise on a macro shift in the skilled 
workforce marketplace. The Veredus acquisition 
added a further 700 contractors
4
CONTINUE TO SEARCH 
FOR WAYS TO IMPROVE 
EFFICIENCY AND 
EFFECTIVENESS
• Build on the technology lead we 
enjoy in the industry
• Research and develop new and 
emerging technology tools and 
routes to market
• Consistent focus on maximising productivity and 
effectiveness of all processes around  
the Group 
• German back-office automation project under 
way to increase efficiencies
• Innovation team continue to research, analyse  
and build relationships with new and emerging 
business models
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
OUR OBJECTIVES
2015 IN REVIEW
This has been another strong year for Hays. 
We grew our net fees by 9%
(1)
 and increased 
operating profit by 25%
(1)
. Our cash 
performance was also strong as we converted 
116% of operating profit into operating cash 
flow, and we ended the year with £31 million 
of net debt, down from £63 million last year. 
Our goal is to eliminate net debt and build a 
net cash position in the business and we are 
well on the way to achieving this. Our strong 
financial performance has allowed us to 
propose to increase our core dividend by  
5%, while also continuing to build our core 
dividend cover towards the goal of 3x 
earnings. Paul Venables, Group Finance 
Director, discusses our financial performance 
in more detail from page 30.
SUPPORTIVE MARKETS
Market conditions remained supportive in the 
vast majority of our 33 countries throughout 
the year. Stable economic conditions and lack 
of major economic shocks reinforced greater 
confidence amongst our clients to replace 
leavers and hire new staff and our candidates 
to move jobs. Importantly, we delivered 
growth in all of our core markets around the 
world for the first time since 2008. 
In the UK & Ireland net fees increased 11%
(1)
  
and our exceptionally strong profit leverage  
in this business allowed us to increase 
operating profits by £19.6 million
(1)
, with 74%
(1)
 
of incremental net fees flowing through into 
incremental profit. In Germany, our largest 
business in profit terms, conditions were 
good throughout the year, and we produced 
another record year for net fees and 
operating profits, which were both up 6%
(1)
.  
In the rest of Europe we delivered strong 
double-digit
(1)
 growth in key businesses such 
as Belgium, Switzerland and Poland. Several 
markets that have been challenging for  
some time, including Spain and Italy, returned 
to strong growth and we continued to grow 
rapidly in France, a market where we are  
now creating real scale as we outperform  
our competitors. 
In Australia we saw a return to growth for the 
first time since 2012 as confidence returned  
to a number of our market segments, 
particularly in the permanent recruitment 
markets in the non-mining states. In Asia 
conditions were good throughout the year,  
as our Japan business grew 15%
(1)
 to deliver  
a record year and Malaysia, Hong Kong and 
China all saw strong double-digit
(1)
 growth.  16 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
In South America, conditions in Brazil 
remained challenging and we took 
appropriate action to reduce our cost base. 
Elsewhere, the rest of our Latin America 
business in Mexico, Chile and Colombia 
continued to deliver excellent growth with net 
fees in each country growing by over 40%
(1)
.
In North America, our Canadian business  
was up 10%
(1)
 but ended the year flat as  
the slowdown in the energy and resources 
industries impacted the overall economy.  
In the USA, however, conditions continued  
to be very positive and we not only grew our 
existing business aggressively, but we also 
took the important step of acquiring Veredus 
Corp., instantly providing us with a significant 
platform to grow further in this attractive 
market. You can read more about this later  
in this section.
CONTINUED PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR 
FINANCIAL GOALS
Back in 2013, we outlined our five-year 
aspirations for the Group. Our financial 
aspirations are to broadly double the Group’s 
operating profit between 2013 and 2018, and 
to diversify from where we earn our profits. 
These aspirations assumed a global 
macroeconomic backdrop of modest but 
consistent overall growth. In today’s world we 
fully expect the occasional minor economic  
shock, but our base case assumes no major 
destabilising event. So far, two years into  
that five-year period, this assumption has 
proved accurate and remains valid. The major 
economies of the world, including our  
own key markets, have returned to steady 
economic growth. Issues clearly remain in the 
Eurozone, Russia and the Middle East, but no 
single event has escalated and derailed the 
solid recovery we continued to enjoy. Against 
this backdrop, we believe we can be very 
successful. Two years into our plan, overall 
trading has been ahead of where we originally 
anticipated and many of our businesses are 
performing better than we planned, although 
the recent strength of sterling has been an 
obvious headwind which has materially 
diluted our translated results. Regardless,  
the business has performed very well on  
a like-for-like basis and we finished 2015  
on track to deliver on our original 2018 
aspirations, even after the currency impact  
to date has been accounted for. Looking 
forward, sterling’s strength means we will 
have to work hard and deliver significantly 
beyond our original expectations to meet  
our five-year goals on a headline basis,  
but we remain confident of doing so.
Throughout the year we have continued  
to focus on improving our consultants’ 
productivity and making selective, rapid 
investment into the business where we see 
further growth opportunities. In the UK we 
increased productivity by 3% and that was a 
key driver in the improved profitability of this 
business. That extra profit gave us the space 
to invest in additional capacity in places such 
as Asia where we see buoyant markets, and  
in Germany where we invested in the areas  
of our business which are focused on small- 
and medium-sized clients.
Excluding the acquisition of Veredus, closing 
Group consultant headcount was up 9%, 
which equated to an addition of 464 new 
consultants to our business. Our approach to 
this investment has been consistent for many 
years now. We appraise each opportunity  
on its own merits and we invest selectively 
where we see clear and compelling 
opportunities for growth. Decisions are taken 
on an office-by-office and a desk-by-desk 
basis, and we review our options constantly. 
The key to our success is our ability to 
understand and interpret trends in local 
markets quickly and accurately. This relies  
on high-quality management teams running 
our businesses around the world, but also 
requires real-time information and data.  
One of the advantages of the front- and 
back-office system investments we 
completed globally in 2012 is the quality, 
accuracy and speed of the data we are able  
to produce to inform rapid decision-making 
based on facts, informing the investment 
decisions we make into the business.
SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC AND 
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
We have made significant strategic and 
operational progress in a number of areas  
this year. One of the most important was our 
acquisition, in December 2014, of IT staffing 
company Veredus Corp. in the US. This  
is an important milestone in our strategic 
development, about which you can read more 
on the opposite page. The US is the world’s 
largest recruitment market, the industry there 
is long-established and well understood,  
but significant further growth potential 
undoubtedly remains. I expect the Hays  
US business to quickly become one of the 
largest in our Group, and it immediately  
joins our Future Material Profit Drivers:  
those businesses with the potential to reach 
£10 million of operating profit by 2018.  
Since the acquisition we have successfully 
integrated Veredus into Hays and have 
“ Veredus is delighted to become 
Hays’ partner in the US market. 
We are focused on growing 
and expanding our existing IT 
Contractor and Permanent business 
and introducing new specialisms 
into our branch network.”
DAN RODRIGUEZ
CEO VEREDUS, NOW MD HAYS USA
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
developed an exciting plan for how we will 
create significant value in the US business.  
As part of that plan, the original Veredus 
leadership team are now the Hays US 
leadership team, incorporating the existing 
Hays Life Sciences and Oil & Gas businesses  
in New York and Houston into the Veredus 
network and rebranding the business 
accordingly. Having brought the businesses 
together, our initial priorities are now to  
invest aggressively in building scale in the 
existing IT Contracting business, reinforce  
the permanent recruitment offering and  
add new specialisms across the current 12  
office footprint, starting with Construction  
& Property. Having a meaningful presence in 
the US is also increasingly important to many 
of our global clients and the opportunity to 
leverage existing relationships both into and 
out of the US is significant. We are already 
making excellent progress at leveraging those 
relationships and winning work both in the US 
and around the rest of the world as a result of 
the unique scale and coverage we now have 
in our industry. With an excellent platform  
in place and a world-class management  
team driving the business forward, I am  
very optimistic about the growth we will  
ow be able to deliver from the world’s  
biggest market.
Elsewhere we have made further strategic 
progress rolling out our market-leading IT 
Contracting business, led by experts from our 
Germany business, into other markets where 
we believe the model can be successful, 
including Canada, France and Japan. This 
initiative is designed not only to drive further 
diversification of our global revenue stream 
and profitability, but also to respond to one  
of the macro trends we see in the global 
skilled labour market, namely the increasing 
requirement for temporary and flexible labour 
in a number of disciplines and skill sets to  Initially paying $44 million 
for 80% of the equity of  
the business, Hays has  
the option to acquire the 
remaining 20% from the 
selling shareholders (who 
hold an equivalent option  
to sell) which is first available  
in March 2018. 
Veredus is a pure-play IT staffing company 
that generates c.80% of its net fees from 
Contracting and Temp assignments and 
c.20% from Perm placements. Established in 
2000, it is headquartered in Tampa, Florida, 
with 10 offices focused in the Southeast and 
Midwest of the USA. On acquisition it had  
150 employees and has over 700 contractors 
currently active on assignments with a broad 
range of clients, and in the last year made  
placements across 30 states.
PLACEMENTS  
MADE ACROSS
30
US STATES
HA YS COMPLETED THE 
ACQUISITION OF 80%  
OF VEREDUS CORP .  
IN DECEMBER 2014. 
10
2
80%
20%
OFFICES
 Veredus
 Hays US
VEREDUS NET FEES 
SINCE ACQUISITION
 Temp
 Perm 
148
VEREDUS  
CONSULTANTS
AS AT JUNE 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 17 18 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
complement a client’s permanent workforce. 
Again, I see huge opportunities for us to build 
a much bigger contractor base around the 
world and we have all the components, systems 
and skills to do that in a world-class way. 
In summary, we have enjoyed a successful 
year, delivering strong financial results, 
making profound steps forward in building 
our global network, reinforcing our brand, 
bringing new ideas into the business and 
placing huge numbers of professional talent 
into new and exciting roles around the  
world. However, none of this would have  
been possible without the hard work and 
commitment of the 9,023 people who are 
Hays and I would like to place on record my 
personal thanks to them all for what they 
have delivered this year.
OUR STRATEGY
Our long-term aim is clear: to be the 
undisputed world leader in specialist 
recruitment, and, as we build towards this 
aim, we focus on delivering well-diversified, 
profitable, cash-generative growth.
Back in November 2013 we outlined our  
view of where we believed we could take  
our business from a financial perspective.  
We set out our aspiration to broadly double 
the Group’s operating profit from the  
2013 level of £125 million to £250 million  
by 2018, and to materially diversify the 
make-up of that operating profit by sector 
and geography. Historically, we have 
delivered the majority of our profits from  
our largest three markets in the UK, Australia 
and Germany. Going forward, we are seeking 
to develop a number of other countries  
which we believe can make a meaningful 
contribution to the Group’s financial 
performance. So whilst our big three 
businesses will still be hugely important  
to us and constitute the majority of our  
profits as a Group for some time, our reliance 
on them will be reduced over time and we  
will be able to leverage the opportunities 
available in so many other areas. 
In building this future portfolio, we rigorously 
prioritise our investments. To achieve this,  
we segment our 33 country businesses into 
four categories, thereby helping inform and 
decide where we focus resources, whether 
those be capital or people. Each of these 
categories is described in detail in the boxes 
on pages 20 and 21. 
However, being the world leader in our 
industry is about more than just delivering 
superior financial performance. It also  
means having the best brand in our industry, 
recognised not only for the quality of the 
service we offer our clients and candidates, 
but also for our reputation in the communities 
in which we operate and as thought-leaders 
in the world of work and recruitment. 
There is huge value in a compelling and 
powerful brand and I believe our brand is 
stronger today than ever before. We are  
very publicly recognised in today’s world of 
social media as a leader in our field and now 
benefit from over one million followers on the 
LinkedIn platform, making us the seventeenth 
most followed company in the world and far 
and away the most followed recruiter on this 
important network. Our partnerships with 
Manchester City FC in the English Premier 
League and New York City FC in Major 
League Soccer in the USA take our message 
out to billions of followers around the world 
on a weekly basis, driving very high levels of 
awareness of our business. Our sponsorship 
of the annual CBI conference in the UK puts 
us very publicly at the heart of the business 
debate in Britain. Elsewhere around the  
world, every day we are building our local 
brand to achieve our goal of being the  
most recognised and most highly regarded 
company in our sector. Each of these 
initiatives is designed to raise awareness  
of our business and position us as the  
go-to specialist recruiter in every one of  
our local markets.
Equally, being the world leader means  
having world-class services to offer clients, 
and evolving those services as clients’  
needs evolve. Equipping our consultants  
with state-of-the-art tools so that they  
may build better networks and solve our 
clients’ problems faster and better than our 
competitors is also key to success in our 
industry. That’s why we invested significantly 
throughout the recession to build new front- 
and back-office systems and databases 
across the Group, creating and owning the 
intellectual property of these tools along the 
way. As the economy and trading conditions 
have improved, we are now seeing the 
benefits of those investments crystallise  
in the form of a more effective business, 
improving consultant productivity, raising 
service levels and gaining market share as  
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
MORE THAN
1,000
JOBS FILLED EVERY 
WORKING DAY
LAST YEAR
36m
HITS ON HAYS 
WEBSITES
PER ANNUM STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 19
our people utilise the technology and tools  
at their disposal. Building those systems  
was challenging. Now they are complete,  
I believe it will be difficult for others to copy 
our approach, thereby providing us a clear 
competitive advantage in the industry. 
However, we do not stand still and we are 
already exploring new tools and ideas to 
enhance our business further. 
Ultimately though, Hays is a people business. 
Our people are and will always be at the very 
heart of what we do. To be the world leader 
we must therefore be the company that the 
best people in our industry aspire to work  
for. We believe in a meritocratic culture  
and a rewards system that promotes high 
performance. We believe in promoting from 
within, developing our own future managers 
and leaders and offering them the chance to 
build their entire career at Hays. We have also 
invested to develop the best training and 
development programmes available, both to 
make our consultants the experts they need 
to be in their own field, but also to ensure we 
have a strong pipeline of local management 
developing throughout the business so that 
we may capitalise on all the opportunities  
we see around the world. 
Building a strong community within Hays in 
which all our people are actively engaged in 
the development of the business is important  
to me as I believe such engagement fosters  
a powerful culture. To gauge our progress in 
this area, we survey our people every year for 
their input and I was delighted that this year 
80% of our colleagues globally gave us their 
feedback on things we might do better. The 
leadership teams around the world use these 
insights to continually refine our people 
policies to ensure we remain an employer of 
choice. We are now seeing public recognition 
for our efforts in this area and I am proud our 
company has won a number of People and 
Culture Awards over the last year, including 
Best Places to Work in 2015 in the UK and 
Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 2014 
in Australia.
AREAS OF FOCUS TO DELIVER  
OUR OBJECTIVES
•  T o deliver on our aspiration of £250 million  
operating profit by 2018, and materially  
diversify the geographic mix of those profits 
versus prior peak
•  T o tactically invest in our business to capitalise 
on all market opportunities and support long-
term growth in structurally opening markets
•  T o hire, retain, train and develop the best and 
most productive people in our industry. Focus 
on culture, quality of leadership and reward
•  T o develop Hays as the thought-leading 
authority on the world of work and the most 
respected specialist recruitment brand in each 
of our markets
•  T o continue to equip and respond to new  
and emerging media, technologies and routes 
to market
OUR STRATEGY
T o be the 
undisputed world 
leader in specialist 
recruitment
T o deliver  
well-diversified, 
profitable and  
cash-generative  
growth 20 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
TODAY 
& TOMORROW
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
These markets are large, well-established businesses with  
world-class management teams. The UK and Australia are  
more mature recruitment markets and we are the market-leading 
specialist recruiter in each, having been operating in these markets 
for over 40 years. By contrast in Germany, the specialist recruitment 
market is far less mature. We estimate that only around 20% of  
all skilled jobs are filled by a third-party agency such as Hays and  
so the key driver in this market is less about the macroeconomy and  
more about the growth in the proportion of the recruitment market  
which is outsourced.
We are clear in our need to build more of the businesses within 
Hays which can materially contribute to the Group’s overall 
earnings. This increased diversification reduces our reliance on  
a small number of countries and will add more resilience to our 
earnings through the various stages of the economic cycle. 
Each of these businesses is capable of delivering £10 million 
operating profit by 2018. In each case, we will be investing to 
rapidly build headcount, office capacity and introduce new 
specialisms where and when appropriate.
As market conditions remain favourable and continue  
to show gradual and steady improvement, our focus and 
priorities remain largely unchanged as we enter year three 
of our five-year plan. 
5 YEARS TODAY
CURRENT CORE PROFIT DRIVERS 
(Germany, Australia and the UK)
FUTURE MATERIAL PROFIT DRIVERS
(France, Japan, US, Canada) STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 21
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2016
We will continue to focus on maximising  
the productivity and effectiveness of our 
consultant teams around the world. That 
means focusing on hiring the best people  
and training them to be the best in the 
industry. Furthermore, we will then equip 
them with the latest tools and technology 
they need to gain a competitive edge and  
to fulfil their true potential.
We will continue to invest in additional 
capacity where we see strong demand and 
today that means investment across large 
parts of the network. Our objective is to 
capitalise both on short-term market 
opportunities as well as investing to support 
the long-term growth and development  
of the Group. We intend to make further 
progress in rapidly developing a number  
of our emergent businesses across Europe, 
the Americas and Asia so that they might 
complement our larger businesses in the  
UK, Germany and Australia. However,  
the economic cycle influences our business, 
so we continually monitor conditions in  
our markets to be able to respond quickly  
if conditions become unfavourable. Our 
advanced systems provide us real-time 
information that allows us to be better 
informed than ever before when making 
these decisions.
We will continue to promote our brand 
through multiple routes globally so that  
we become the go-to expert when clients  
are looking to recruit professional and 
technical staff. Digital engagement is a key 
part of this strategy and we will continue  
to invest in and innovate with tools and 
platforms to build our reputation in our  
client and candidate marketplaces. 
Finally, we will continue to research and 
respond to new and emerging technologies 
and business models which we believe can 
have an impact on our business. We have  
our own in-house Innovation team, reporting 
to me, who continually assess this evolving 
world so that we spot opportunities early in 
their lifecycle. Through this process, we have 
already engaged with many interesting ideas 
and I expect this to continue as we seek to 
remain at the forefront of these innovations. 
Overall, we have positioned the business to 
capitalise on a growing market and we are 
now seeing the fruits of our earlier work as 
markets move steadily forward. We have a 
highly engaged and motivated team around 
the world, a world-class client network, 
unprecedented access to the candidates our 
clients need and the tools and capabilities  
to ensure we reinforce our market-leading 
position. While risks obviously exist in the 
world, our business is strong and dynamic 
and I am optimistic about our prospects for 
2016 and beyond.
Several of our country businesses, while individually not delivering 
levels of profitability which are material at the Group level, are critical  
to the success of our network. They play a role to serve global clients  
in local markets, provide us access to candidates and deliver attractive 
returns given the scale of their local markets. We will continue to run 
these businesses to grow profits ahead of net fees.
In some cases, these businesses are already contributing in  
a meaningful way to Group earnings, with profits at £5 million 
or more, but these markets, by their nature, will always be of 
limited size. Others have the potential to reach that level in  
the near term or move beyond it. We also see other cases  
such as Latin America or China, which can become very large 
businesses on a long-term basis. Our investment approach will 
be driven by the long-term opportunity to reach significant 
scale where we see the potential as well as the short-term need 
to deliver profits along the way.
5–10 YEARS ONGOING
MEANINGFUL CONTRIBUTORS
(New Zealand, Switzerland, Belgium, China, Mexico, Brazil)
NETWORK CRITICAL
(20 other countries) 22 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
ASIA
PACIFIC
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIVISIONAL OPERATING REVIEW 
Hays is the market-leading specialist recruitment 
company in Australia, having been a pioneer  
of the industry in the country since 1976. 
This year our Australian business returned to year-on-
year growth for the first time since 2012, driven by our 
Perm business as candidate confidence improved in 
several key markets, and our New Zealand business also 
delivered good growth.  Asia accounts for 22% of our 
Asia Pacific division and this year all five of our countries 
delivered record net fees.  We expect our Australian 
business to continue to make a significant contribution  
to Group profits while our focus in Asia remains on 
building strong, leading positions in these newer, less 
mature markets.
CONSULTANTS
1,195
OFFICES
45 77%
23%
54%
46%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 23
and our private sector business was up 4%
(1)
. 
In Australia we delivered good net fee growth 
of 7%
(1)
. In New South Wales and Victoria, 
which represented 52% of Australian net fees, 
net fees were up 15%
(1)
 and 5%
(1)
 respectively. 
Queensland was up 3%
(1)
, although Western 
Australia was down 12%
(1)
 as reduced activity 
in the Resources & Mining sector continued to 
significantly impact trading across the state. 
The remaining smaller states delivered 
excellent growth, notably Australian Capital 
Territory, which is predominantly a public 
sector business and grew by 53%
(1)
. We saw 
good net fee growth of 9%
(1)
 in New Zealand.
In Asia, which accounted for 22% of the 
division’s net fees, we delivered strong net  
fee growth of 13%
(1)
 and operating profits 
increased by 22%
(1)
 to £5.5 million. All 
countries in the region delivered record net 
fees. In Japan, net fees increased by 15%
(1)
 and 
market conditions were good throughout the 
year. Net fees in China grew 17%
(1)
, Hong Kong 
10%
(1)
, Malaysia 52%
(1)
 and Singapore 1%
(1)
.
In Asia Pacific, net fees increased by 3%  
(8% on a like-for-like basis
(1)
) to £178.5 million 
and operating profit was flat (up 7% on  
a like-for-like basis
(1)
) at £49.7 million, 
representing a conversion rate of 27.8%  
(2014: 28.6%). The difference between  
actual growth and like-for-like growth  
rates is primarily the result of the material 
depreciation in the rate of exchange between 
the Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen  
versus sterling during the year, which reduced 
net fees in the division by £9.2 million and 
operating profits by £3.1 million. 
In Australia & New Zealand net fees were  
up 7%
(1)
 and operating profit was up 5%
(1)
. 
Growth was driven by the permanent 
recruitment business, where we delivered 
strong net fee growth of 17%
(1)
, as candidate 
confidence improved in several key markets. 
Temp net fees grew by 2%
(1)
. Our public sector 
business was up 15%
(1)
, as we saw a return  
to activity levels more in line with historical 
norms in that market after a subdued period, 
Consultant headcount in the Asia Pacific 
division increased by 13% year-on-year. 
Consultant headcount in Australia & New 
Zealand increased by 10% as we invested  
to take advantage of the initial stages of 
recovery we have seen in that market. In Asia 
we ended the year with over 420 consultants, 
increasing headcount by 20% as we invested 
to drive growth, capitalise on supportive 
market conditions across the region and  
build strong, leading positions in newer, less 
mature markets.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 Actual growth LFL
 
growth
(1)
Net fees (£m) 178.5 173.9 3% 8%
Operating profit (£m) 49.7 49.7 0% 7%
Conversion rate
(2)
27.8% 28.6%
Period-end consultant headcount
(3)
1,195 1,055 13%
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2) Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items).
(3) Closing consultant headcount as at 30 June.
NET FEES BY SPECIALISM
 Construction & Property 21%
 Accountancy & Finance 14%
 Office Support 11%
 IT 10%
 Sales & Marketing 6%
 Resources & Mining 5%
 Other 33%
NET FEES BY COUNTRY
 Australia 70%
 Japan 9%
 New Zealand 7%
 Singapore 5%
 China 5%
 Hong Kong 3% 
 Malaysia 1%
 Temp
 Perm
 Private sector
  P u bl i c s e c t o r 24 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIVISIONAL OPERATING REVIEW 
We entered the German market in 2003 and we 
have built a business that is today our largest 
contributor to Group operating profits. It still 
represents a unique structural opportunity for  
Hays and our focus remains on making Germany  
a £100 million operating profit business. 
Elsewhere, 13 of our other 23 countries in the division 
delivered record net fee performances. This year we 
have continued the roll-out of our contractor model 
and the Veredus acquisition has given us a platform 
from which to drive growth in the US, the world’s 
largest recruitment market.
CONTINENT AL EUROPE 
& REST OF WORLD
CONSULTANTS
(3)
2,423
OFFICES
(3)
86 96%
4%
61%
39%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 25
net fees in Germany, particularly Accountancy  
& Finance, Sales & Marketing and Healthcare 
which all grew by more than 10%
(1)
. Net fees  
in IT, which represents 41% of the Germany 
business, grew by 7%
(1)
 whilst net fees in 
Engineering increased by 2%
(1)
.
Across the rest of the division, net fees were 
up 12%
(1)
 and operating profit increased  
by £7.1 million
(1)
, a 44%
(1)
 drop-through of 
incremental net fees into operating profit. 
France, our second largest country in the 
division, delivered strong net fee growth of 
10%
(1)
, and operating profit growth of 48%
(1)
 
against a subdued market backdrop. 
In North America, Canada delivered strong 
net fee growth of 10%
(1)
 and our business in 
the US, excluding the Veredus acquisition, 
continued to perform well and increased  
net fees by 34%
(1)
. In Latin America, Chile, 
Colombia and Mexico all grew rapidly, 
although Brazil remained challenging and  
net fees were down 13%
(1)
. 
In Continental Europe & RoW, we delivered 
net fee growth of 3% (9% on a like-for-like 
basis
(1)
) to £313.8 million, driving operating 
profit growth of 7% (18% on a like-for-like 
basis
(1)
) to £68.7 million. The difference 
between actual and like-for-like growth  
rates is primarily the result of the material 
depreciation in the rate of exchange between 
the Euro versus sterling, which reduced net 
fees by £26.0 million and operating profit  
by £6.4 million. The conversion rate of the 
division increased to 21.9% (2014: 21.1%) 
driven by good net fee growth and strong 
drop-through of incremental net fees into 
operating profit, notably across several 
continental European markets.
Germany, which represented 50% of the 
division’s net fees, delivered good net fee 
growth of 6%
(1)
. We saw growth across 
Contracting and Temp, which together  
grew by 6%
(1)
, and Perm which also grew  
by 6%
(1)
. We saw strong growth in our newer 
specialisms, which now represent 27% of  
Within the division, 16 countries delivered net 
fee growth of 10%
(1)
 or more and 14 countries 
delivered record net fee performances, 
including Germany, Belgium, Canada, Poland 
and Switzerland.
Consultant headcount in the division 
increased by 13%
(4)
 year-on-year. In Germany 
consultant headcount increased 14%, 
primarily in the second half, as we invested  
in the areas of our business which are focused 
on small- and medium-sized clients. In France, 
consultant headcount increased 10% as we 
invested to support the growth and strong 
performance of that business, and we also 
invested in markets which demonstrated 
clear growth opportunities, many of which, 
such as Spain where consultant headcount 
was up 23%, showed sustained recovery after 
having been challenging for some time. 
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 Actual growth LFL
 
growth
(1)
Net fees (£m) 313.8 305.0 3% 9%
Operating profit (£m) 68.7 64.4 7% 18%
Conversion rate
(2)
21.9% 21.1%
Period-end consultant headcount
(3)
2,423 2,145 13%
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2) Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items).
(3) Closing consultant headcount at 30 June and excludes the impact of the Veredus acquisition.
NET FEES BY SPECIALISM
 IT 29%
 Engineering 20%
 Accountancy & Finance 14%
 Construction & Property 10%
 Life Sciences 8%
 Sales & Marketing 4%
 Other 15%
NET FEES BY COUNTRY
 Germany 50%
 France 12%
 Benelux 7%
 Canada 5%
 Switzerland 5%
 USA 4%
 Other 17%
 Temp
 Perm
 Private sector
  P u bl i c s e c t o r 26 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
DIVISIONAL OPERATING REVIEW 
UK 
& IRELAND
We entered our home market in 1969 and today we 
are the leading specialist recruiter in what is arguably 
the world’s most mature and competitive market. 
This year we delivered excellent operating profit leverage 
of 74%
(1)
 and strong net fee growth across all regions, 
driven by our Perm business as candidate confidence 
remained strong. Our UK & Ireland business remains well 
placed to take full advantage of the current supportive 
market conditions and our focus is very much on 
continuing to deliver material profit growth.
CONSULTANTS
2,203
OFFICES
99 71%
29%
57%
43%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 27
Accountancy & Finance grew by 13%
(1)
,  
within which our Senior Finance business  
grew by 12%
(1)
.
Our private sector business, which represented 
71% of the division’s net fees, delivered strong 
net fee growth of 11%
(1)
 and our public sector 
business also delivered strong net fee growth 
of 11%
(1)
, driven by particularly good 
performances in Education and IT.
The improvement in profitability in the UK  
& Ireland business was driven by strong net  
fee growth of 11%
(1)
. Over the year, average 
consultant headcount numbers increased 8% 
and consultant productivity increased 3%, 
which, along with the ongoing benefits from 
our largely automated back-office platform 
drove an improved conversion rate. These 
factors combined generated the excellent 
74%
(1)
 drop-through of incremental net fee 
growth into operating profit. Our UK & Ireland 
business remains strongly placed to take full 
The UK & Ireland delivered strong net fee 
growth of 11%
(1)
 to £271.9 million and generated 
material improvement of operating profit to 
£45.7 million (2014: £26.2 million), representing 
a conversion rate of 16.8% (2014: 10.7%). Our 
Temp business delivered good growth of 7%
(1)
, 
whilst our Perm business delivered strong 
growth of 16%
(1)
 as candidate confidence 
remained strong.
Activity levels were strong and broad-  
based, with all regions and most specialisms 
delivering net fee growth. We saw standout 
performances from North West, Midlands, 
East, London (excl. City) and South of England, 
each of which grew by more than 15%. In 
Ireland our business delivered net fee growth 
of 1%
(1)
.
At the specialism level, IT delivered excellent 
growth of 22%
(1)
, Construction & Property 
performed strongly and was up 14%
(1)
,  
whilst net fees in our largest specialism of 
advantage of the current supportive market 
conditions. Going forward we anticipate a 
drop-through of incremental net fees into 
operating profit of c.60%
(1)
.
Consultant headcount in the division was up 
2% year-on-year, as we paused investment  
in the run-up to the general election in May 
following the significant investment we made 
in the first half of the year, and focused on 
improvements in consultant productivity.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 Actual growth LFL
 
growth
(1)
Net fees (£m) 271.9 246.0 11% 11%
Operating profit (£m) 45.7 26.2 74% 75%
Conversion rate
(2)
16.8% 10.7%
Period-end consultant headcount
(3)
2,203 2,157 2%
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2) Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items).
(3) Closing consultant headcount as at 30 June.
NET FEES BY SPECIALISM
 Accountancy & Finance 21%
 Construction & Property 19%
 Banking & Financial Services 10%
 Office Support 10%
 Education 10%
 IT 9%
 Other 21%
NET FEES BY REGION
 London 34%
 North & Scotland 26%
 Midlands & East Anglia 19%
 South West & Wales 10%
 Home Counties 8%
 Ireland 3%
 Temp
 Perm
 Private sector
 Public sector LIKE-FOR-LIKE NET FEE GROWTH
(1)
PROPORTION OF GROUP NET FEES GENERATED  
BY OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
(2)
2015
2012
2013
2014
64%
69%
69%
66%
2015
2012
2013
2014
9%
8%
-1%
5%
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2) International defined as outside of the UK & Ireland.
(3) Continuing operations only, excluding exceptional items.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Delivering growth; achieving our 2018 aspirations.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Diversifying the geographic mix of our business.
28 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PERFORMANCE 
& PROGRESS
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
A measure of how the Group’s 
business is developing and 
growing over time.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
We delivered good net fee 
growth of 9%
(1)
 this year, with  
all three divisions delivering  
good growth.
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
A measure of the Group’s 
internationalisation and relative 
exposure to markets which  
are more immature and 
underpenetrated than the UK.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
64% of Group net fees were 
generated outside of the UK  
& Ireland this year. This is down 
slightly on last year as our UK  
& Ireland business delivered 
further strong growth and as 
sterling strengthened against  
the Euro and Australian Dollar.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT LIKE-FOR-LIKE NET FEES PER CONSULTANT (£000)
(4)
2015
2012
2013
2014
133
129
129
133
2015
2012
2013
2014
84%
83%
84%
85%
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Our focus on culture, quality of leadership and reward.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
To have the most productive people in our industry.
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
Hays’ employees participation  
in our employee engagement 
survey which tracks their sense  
of belonging, discretionary  
effort, personal motivation  
and job satisfaction.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015
Over 80% of our employees  
again engaged in our annual 
TALKback survey this year which 
is an excellent response rate  
for an international support 
services business.
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
A measure of the productivity 
of  the Group’s fee earners.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015
Overall net fees per consultant  
for the year were flat. In the UK 
productivity rose 3%, generating 
profit that allowed us to invest 
additional capacity into under- 
penetrated Asian markets and to 
expand our Germany network. HEADLINE INTERNATIONAL NET FEE BASE (£m)
(2)
 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH
(3)
 
2015
2012
2013
2014
21%
5%
-6%
19%
2015
2012
2013
2014
492
509
497
479
(4)  Consultant headcount in each year represents the average consultant headcount.
(5) Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items).
(6)  Cash conversion is the conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow (before exceptional items and capital expenditure).
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Diversifying the geographic mix of our business.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Delivering profitable growth, and £250m of operating profit by 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 29
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
A measure of the absolute scale 
of the International business and 
the size of the platform for growth 
in these less mature markets.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
Like-for-like net fees in the 
International business grew by  
a good 9% in the year, although 
adverse currency movements 
reduced headline growth to 3%.
CONVERSION RATE
(5)
 CASH CONVERSION
(6)
 
2015
2012
2013
2014
116%
127%
109%
125%
2015
2012
2013
2014
21.5%
17.5%
17.5%
19.4%
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Delivering profitable growth, and £250m of operating profit by 2018.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
To deliver cash-generative growth.
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
Conversion of net fees into 
operating profit (EBIT). Measures 
the Group’s effectiveness in 
controlling costs and managing 
our level of investment for 
future growth.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
Conversion rate improved to  
21.5% this year, back above 20%  
for the first time since 2009  
and driven primarily by further 
strong profit growth in the UK 
and CE&RoW. 
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
A measure of the Group’s ability 
to convert profit into cash.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
We had a strong cash performance 
in the year, converting 116% of 
operating profits into operating 
cash flow. We ended the year 
with £31 million of net debt, down 
£32 million on last year, despite 
the £36 million acquisition  
of Veredus.
WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
Measures the underlying 
profitability of the Group.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 
Basic earnings per share grew  
by 21% in 2015, as a result of our 
excellent operating profit growth 
and lower effective tax rate.
Our long-term goal is to be the world’s pre-eminent specialist 
recruitment business. Along the way, we are focused on delivering 
well-diversified, profitable and cash-generative fee growth.  
We measure our progress in this respect, as well as against our 
areas of operational focus, using a series of KPIs. 30 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW
PROGRESSIVE 
& EFFICIENT
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
• 17% headline growth in operating profit 
despite a £9.6 million foreign exchange 
headwind
• Excellent like-for-like profit growth of  
£33.1 million from like-for-like net fee 
growth of £65.1 million, a 51% drop-through 
• Consultant headcount up 9%
(3)
, as we 
invested on a targeted basis to support 
growth opportunities
• Strong cash performance, with 116% 
conversion of operating profit into 
operating cash flow, and net debt reduced 
by £32 million to £31 million despite the  
£36 million spend in relation to the 
acquisition of Veredus in the US
• Strong growth in EPS of 21%, reflecting 
strong operating profit performance and 
lower effective tax rate
• Full year dividend increased 5%, in line with 
our strategy to build full year cover towards 
3.0x earnings
INCREASE IN GROUP NET FEES
(1)
+9%
INCREASE IN OPERATING PROFIT
(1)
+25%
CONVERSION RATE OF GROUP NET FEES  
INTO OPERATING PROFIT
(2)
+21.5%
GROUP CONSULTANT HEADCOUNT UP  
9% OVER THE YEAR (2014: 5,357)
(3)
5,821
“ This is another strong 
financial performance as 
we delivered excellent 
25%
(1)
 operating profit 
growth and further 
increased our sector- 
leading conversion rate.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 31
INTRODUCTION
Turnover for the year to 30 June 2015 was up 
4% (9% on a like-for-like basis
(1)
) and net fees 
increased by 5% (9% on a like-for-like basis
(1)
). 
Operating profit increased by 17% (25%  
on a like-for-like basis
(1)
). Exchange rate 
movements decreased net fees and operating 
profit by £35.8 million and £9.6 million 
respectively, primarily as a result of a material 
depreciation in the rate of exchange of the 
major currencies to which the Group has 
exposure versus sterling, most notably the 
Australian Dollar and the Euro which remain 
significant sensitivities for the Group. 
Operating costs were 3% higher than prior 
year (6% higher on a like-for-like basis
(1)
), 
primarily due to a rise in commission 
payments in line with net fees and costs 
associated with the 9%
(3)
 increase in Group 
consultant headcount. Tight control was 
maintained on the overhead cost base  
across the Group.
The Group’s conversion rate, which is the 
proportion of net fees converted into 
operating profit, improved by 210 basis points 
to 21.5% as a result of this net fee growth, the 
ongoing benefit of our largely automated 
back-office platform and our continued 
strong control of operating costs.
CONVERSION RATE
(2)
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
21.5%
17.5%
17.0%
17.5%
19.4%
Consultant headcount at the end of June  
2015 was 5,821
(3)
, up 9% year-on-year and 
also up 4% versus December 2014, as we 
invested on a targeted basis to support 
growth opportunities. In our UK & Ireland 
business consultant headcount was up 2% 
year-on-year. In our International business,  
we increased consultant headcount by 13%
(3)
 
year-on-year. 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
Currency movements versus sterling 
represented a significant headwind for  
the reported performance in the year.  
Over the course of the year to June 2015,  
the total combined operating profit impact  
of exchange movements was £9.6 million 
negative. Exchange rate movements  
remain a material sensitivity and by way  
of illustration, each 1 cent movement in  
annual exchange rates of the Australian  
Dollar and Euro impacts net fees by £0.6 
million and £1.7 million respectively per 
annum; and operating profits by £0.2 million 
and £0.6 million respectively per annum.
The rate of exchange between the Australian 
Dollar and sterling over the year ended 30 
June 2015 averaged A$1.8894 and closed  
at A$2.0397. As at 25 August 2015 the rate 
stood at A$2.2019. The rate of exchange 
between the Euro and sterling over the year 
ended 30 June 2015 averaged €1.3144 and 
closed at €1.4112. As at 25 August 2015 the 
rate stood at €1.3627. If we retranslate the 
Group’s full year operating profit of £164.1 
million at 25 August 2015 exchange rates,  
it reduces by c.£12 million to c.£152 million.
STRONG PERM PERFORMANCE AND GOOD 
CONSISTENT TEMP GROWTH 
Net fees in the Perm business increased by 
13%
(1)
 as volumes increased 10%, driven by 
improved client and candidate confidence  
in several key markets, most notably the UK, 
Australia and several European countries.  
This was supported by an increase in the 
average fee per placement of 3%, as we  
saw a general increase in wage inflation, 
especially where candidate shortages 
became apparent. Net fees in the Temp 
business, which represented 58% of Group 
net fees, increased by 7%
(1)
. Volumes were  
up 7%, mix/hours worked was down 2% and 
underlying Temp margins
(4)
 were up 30 basis 
points to 16.9% (2014: 16.6%).
PROGRESS ON THE ACQUISITION OF 
VEREDUS CORP. IN THE US
In December 2014, we completed the 
acquisition of Veredus Corp. (Veredus), a 
pure-play IT staffing company headquartered 
in Florida, for an initial consideration of 
approximately £36 million, comprising £30 
million with respect to the initial acquisition, 
and £6 million in relation to a tax equalisation 
payment. At the time of acquisition, Veredus 
had 134 consultants in 10 offices focused in 
the Southeast and the Midwest of the US. 
The integration is proceeding well, and the 
business delivered record temp levels and 
perm fees in June. For the period since 
acquisition to June 2015, Veredus delivered 
net fees of £10.0 million and operating  
profit was break even, with a good trading 
performance offset by the amortisation of  
the legacy Veredus brand, and one-off costs 
related to the transaction and post-acquisition 
development of the business. Our OneTouch 
global database system was successfully 
installed across the business in June and  
the branding integration process is well 
progressed. We have started the roll-out of a 
Construction & Property specialism alongside 
the core IT business in specifically targeted 
markets, and invested to build consultant 
headcount within the business, which was 148 
at the end of June, up 10% since acquisition.
PROGRESS AGAINST OUR 2018 
ASPIRATIONS
In November 2013, based on a clear 
assumption regarding the macroeconomic 
backdrop, we outlined our aspiration to 
broadly double the Group’s operating profit 
to £250 million by June 2018, and materially 
diversify where we generate those profits. 
Two years into this five-year plan, we are on 
schedule to deliver on these aspirations.  
Since June 2013, we have increased operating 
profit from £125 million to £164 million, 
representing excellent organic profit growth 
of £57 million, partially offset by £18 million  
of foreign exchange headwinds. If we were to 
retranslate our 2018 operating profit aspiration 
of £250 million at current prevailing spot rates 
of exchange, it would be some £30 million 
lower. Despite this, and notwithstanding  
the lack of forward visibility inherent in our 
business, we remain confident of delivering 
our operating profit aspiration of £250 million 
in 2018. 
SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENT
Year ended 30 June (£m) 2015 2014 Actual growth LFL growth
(1)
Turnover
(5)
3,842.8 3,678.5 4% 9%
Net fees
(5)
764.2 724.9 5% 9%
Operating profit from continuing operations 164.1 140.3 17% 25%
Cash generated by operations 189.8 175.6 8%
Profit before tax 156.1 132.3 18%
Basic earnings per share 7.44p 6.13p 21%
Dividend per share 2.76p 2.63p 5%
(1) LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
(2)  Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit (before exceptional items). 
(3) Closing consultant headcount at 30 June and excludes the impact of the Veredus acquisition.
(4)  The underlying Temp gross margin is calculated as Temp net fees divided by Temp gross revenue and relates solely to Temp placements in which Hays generates net 
fees and specifically excludes transactions in which Hays acts as agent on behalf of workers supplied by third-party agencies and arrangements where the Company 
provides major payrolling services. 
(5)  Net fees of £764.2 million (2014: £724.9 million) are reconciled to statutory turnover of £3,842.8 million (2014: £3,678.5 million) in note 5 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements. 32 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
MOVEMENTS IN CONSULTANT 
HEADCOUNT
Throughout the year we invested to drive 
growth where markets were strong and 
opportunities for growth were clear, including 
those which are recovering from a period  
of more challenging conditions, such as 
Australia and parts of Europe. Investment 
was also made in those immature markets 
such as Asia and certain Latin American 
businesses, where we are seeking to build  
a leading position.
Overall Group consultant headcount, 
excluding Veredus, ended June at 5,821,  
up 4% versus December 2014 and up 9% 
year-on-year. In Asia Pacific, consultant 
headcount was up 13% year-on-year.  
In the UK & Ireland consultant headcount  
was up 2% whilst in our Continental Europe  
& Rest of World (CE&RoW) division we 
increased consultant headcount by 13%
(3)
.
CURRENT TRADING
We continue to see good overall net fee 
growth. We see many clear opportunities  
to grow further and we will continue to  
invest in a targeted way to capitalise on  
these opportunities.
Movements in the rates of exchange of  
the Group’s key currencies, notably the 
Australian Dollar and the Euro, remain a 
material sensitivity to our reported financial 
performance, and have had an additional 
negative impact of £1 million since the Q4 
Trading Update in July. 
CONSULTANT HEADCOUNT 
(3)
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
5,821
5,013
4,943
5,037
5,357
ASIA PACIFIC
We continue to see good levels of growth  
in Australia overall, albeit against subdued 
market confidence. Growth in New South 
Wales and Victoria was strong, but conditions 
remain tough in Western Australia. We 
continue to see strong growth in our Perm 
business, but limited growth in our Temp 
business. Growth remains strong in the public 
sector and solid in the private sector. In Asia 
overall growth remains strong. Based on the 
prevailing conditions across the division and 
after significant investment in FY15, we 
expect headcount to increase modestly  
in the first half of the year.
CONTINENTAL EUROPE & ROW
In CE&RoW, growth remains good overall.  
In Germany we continue to see good growth 
and in the rest of the division, conditions in 
most markets are good and in many markets 
are strong. Overall we expect headcount in 
the division to increase on a selective basis  
in the first half of the year.
UNITED KINGDOM & IRELAND
In the UK & I, we continue to see good overall 
net fee growth, albeit we have not seen a 
post-election acceleration in activity levels. 
Growth remains broad-based across all 
regions and most specialisms, and is good  
in Perm and Temp and in the public and 
private sectors. Overall we expect to increase 
headcount in the division on a selective  
basis in the first half of the year.
NET FINANCE CHARGE
The net finance charge for the year was 
£8.0 million (2014: £8.0 million). The average 
interest rate on gross debt during the period 
was 2.5% (2014: 2.8%), generating net bank 
interest payable including amortisation of 
arrangement fees of £4.1 million (2014: 
£5.0 million) with the reduction primarily  
due to the lower levels of average net debt 
compared to the prior year. The net interest 
charge on defined benefit pension scheme 
obligations was £3.0 million (2014: £2.6 
million) and the Pension Protection Fund  
levy was £0.5 million (2014: £0.4 million). The 
unwind of the discount applied to the future 
Veredus acquisition liability is recorded within 
interest, and was £0.4 million. We expect 
the net finance charge for the year ending 
30 June 2016 to be around £7.5 million. 
TAXATION
Taxation for the year was £50.7 million (2014: 
£46.3 million), representing an effective tax 
rate of 32.5% (2014: 35.0%). The effective tax 
rate reflects the Group’s geographical mix of 
profits, with the reduction in the rate due to 
the material improvement of profitability in 
the UK and the reduction in the number of 
countries generating tax losses. We expect 
the Group’s effective tax rate to be 31.0% for 
the year to June 2016.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share increased by 21% to 
7.44 pence (2014: 6.13 pence), reflecting the 
Group’s higher operating profit and lower 
effective tax rate. 
CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET
Cash flow in the year was strong with 116% 
conversion of operating profit into operating 
cash flow (2014: 125%); a result of good 
working capital management throughout  
the year and the favourable day upon which 
the year end fell.
CASH CONVERSION
2015
2012
2011
2013
2014
116%
127%
85%
109%
125%
Net capital expenditure was £11.9 million 
(2014: £11.7 million). The acquisition cost 
related to Veredus was approximately 
£36 million, as explained in the earlier section. 
We expect capital expenditure to be around 
£13 million for the year to June 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
The first quarter of our financial year saw a 9%
(1)
 increase in net 
fees at Group level and growth in every division, with our three 
largest businesses of the UK, Australia and Germany growing 
simultaneously for the first time in nearly four years. Particularly 
pleasing was Australia’s return to growth for the first time in two 
years, driven by a strong Perm performance. The UK & Ireland saw 
a strong broad-based growth of 13%
(1)
, with our main specialisms  
of Accountancy & Finance, IT and Construction & Property all 
growing by over 15%
(1)
. Elsewhere, many European, American  
and Asian markets continued to improve and 11 of our businesses 
delivered record quarterly net fees, including Canada, Switzerland 
and Germany.
Perm growth accelerated in each of our three regions during the 
second quarter, contributing to an 11%
(1)
 increase in net fees at 
Group level. Conditions were good in the majority of our markets 
and it was encouraging to see a continuation of growth in Australia 
where net fees grew 11%
(1)
. The UK & Ireland delivered another 
strong quarter, with a 14%
(1)
 net fee growth. Germany continued  
to deliver good growth and within CE&RoW 15 countries delivered 
10%
(1)
 growth or more, including France, up 14%
(1)
. During the 
quarter we completed the acquisition of Veredus Corp., a US IT 
staffing company, providing us with a significant platform to rapidly 
expand in the world’s largest recruitment market.
Q1:  GROWTH IN EVERY REGION Q2: VEREDUS ACQUISITION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 33
Dividends paid in the year totalled £37.9 
million and pension deficit contributions were 
£14.0 million. Net interest paid, including debt 
arrangement fees, was £5.2 million and the 
cash tax payment was £43.6 million.
Net debt reduced from £62.7 million at the 
start of the year to £30.7 million at the end  
of the year. We expect to move into a net cash 
position in the year to June 2016. 
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Group’s pension liability under IAS19 at 
30 June 2015 of £58.7 million increased by 
£14.8 million compared to 30 June 2014 
primarily due to a significant decrease in the 
discount rate, which was only partially offset 
by Company contributions, a decrease in the 
inflation rate and an increase in asset values.
During the year the Company contributed 
£14.0 million of cash to the defined benefit 
scheme (2014: £13.5 million) in line with the 
agreed deficit recovery plan. The 2012 
triennial valuation quantified the actuarial 
deficit at c.£150 million and the recovery plan 
comprises an annual payment of £12.8 million 
from July 2012 with a fixed 3% uplift per  
year, over a period of just under 10 years.  
The scheme was closed to future accrual in 
June 2012 and the result of the next valuation, 
which will be based on data as at June 2015,  
is expected in early 2016.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND DIVIDEND
The Board’s priorities for free cash flow  
are to fund the Group’s investment and 
development, maintain a strong balance sheet 
and deliver a sustainable core dividend at a 
level which is both affordable and appropriate. 
Taking into account the financial performance 
of the Group this year and as we build core 
dividend cover towards 3x earnings, the Board 
proposes to increase the final core dividend by 
5% to 1.89 pence, resulting in an increase to 
the full year dividend to 2.76 pence, also up  
5% on the prior year. As such, the full year 
dividend will be covered 2.7x by earnings.
The Board remains committed to this 
sustainable and progressive dividend policy 
and will continue to review the core dividend 
level in line with our stated dividend cover 
policy. Additionally, we reiterate our policy 
regarding the uses of excess free cash flow as 
follows. Once we have built a net cash position 
in the region of £50 million and assuming a 
positive outlook, it is our intention that any 
excess free cash flow generated over and 
above this net cash position that is not  
needed for the priorities outlined above,  
will then be distributed to shareholders  
via special dividends, or other appropriate 
methods, to supplement the core dividend.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to 
shareholder approval, on 13 November  
2015 to shareholders on the register on  
9 October 2015.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group’s operations are financed by 
retained earnings and bank borrowings.  
The Group completed the refinancing of its 
five-year unsecured revolving credit facility  
in April 2015. The new arrangement includes  
a reduction in the core debt facility from 
£300 million to £210 million and an extension 
in maturity to April 2020. The financial 
covenants remain unchanged and require  
the Group’s interest cover ratio to be at least  
4:1 (June 2015: 46:1) and its leverage ratio (net 
debt to EBITDA) to be no greater than 2.5:1 
(June 2015: 0.2:1). The interest rate of the 
facility is based on a ratchet mechanism with 
a margin payable over LIBOR in the range of 
0.90% to 1.55%.
All borrowings are raised by the Group’s 
UK-based treasury department, which 
manages the Group’s treasury risk in 
accordance with policies set by the Board. 
The Group’s treasury department does not 
engage in speculative transactions and  
does not operate as a profit centre. 
The Board considers it appropriate to use 
certain derivative financial instruments  
to reduce its exposure to interest rate 
movements under its floating rate revolving 
credit facility. The Group holds two interest 
rate swaps which exchange a fixed payment 
for floating rate receipt on a total debt value 
of £10 million and have maturities of up to  
one year. The Group does not hold or use 
derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. 
Counterparty risk primarily arises from the 
investment of any surplus funds. The Group 
restricts transactions to banks and money 
market funds that have an acceptable credit 
profile and limits exposure to each institution.
The start to the second half saw good net fee growth of 8%
(1)  
at Group level, led by our Perm business, against challenging 
comparatives. Conditions remained supportive in the majority  
of our markets and we delivered growth of 10%
(1)
 or more in 15 
countries, including key growth markets such as France, China, Japan 
and the US. Our Australia business continued to recover,  
with net fees up 8%
(1)
, while Germany had a solid quarter, with good 
growth in newer specialisms such as Accountancy & Finance, up 10%
(1)
. 
Growth in the UK & Ireland was good, although overall rates  
of growth slowed modestly as the quarter progressed and the  
UK general election approached. 
The final quarter of our financial year saw all three of our key 
divisions delivering further good growth, driving Group net fee 
growth of 9%
(1), 
led again by the strong performance of our Perm 
business. In the UK the clear election outcome removed a potential 
uncertainty from the recruitment market and our UK & Ireland 
business grew by 9%
(1)
. The recovery in Australia continued, 
notably in New South Wales and Victoria, though mining-focused 
regions remained tough. Our CE&RoW business continued to 
deliver broad-based growth, with 14 countries delivering 10%
(1)
 
growth or more. We reiterated full year operating profit guidance, 
with second half profits slightly ahead of first half, despite the 
material negative impact of foreign exchange movements. 
OPERATING PROFIT TO FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION (£m)
Operating
proﬁt
Operating cash ﬂow £189.8m (FY14 £175.6m)
Non-cash
items 
Working
capital 
Tax 
paid
Interest
paid 
Free cash
ﬂow 
164.1
32.8
(7.1)
(43.6)
(5.2) 141.0
Q3:  PERM LEADS GROWTH Q4: GOOD END TO THE YEAR 34 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS
MANAGEMENT 
& CONTROL
The Group has diversified its operations  
to include a balance of both temporary 
and permanent placement recruitment 
services to private and public sector 
markets, and operates across 33 countries 
and 20 sector specialisms. Progress is 
being made to further diversify the 
business to reduce somewhat the Group’s 
reliance on the UK, Germany and Australia.  
The acquisition of Veredus Corp. is an 
important development in this regard.
The performance of the Group is 
significantly impacted by changes  
to underlying economic activity, 
particularly in the UK, Germany  
and Australia.
MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK RISK
The Group’s cost base is highly variable  
and is carefully managed to align with 
business activity.
The Group has ensured that net debt has 
been kept at a low and manageable level.
The Group is highly cash generative, requiring 
low levels of asset investment. Cash collection 
is a key priority and the Group has made 
appropriate investment in its credit control 
and working capital management processes.
CYCLICAL NA TURE OF OUR BUSINESS
We have leveraged our broad 
geographical and sectoral footprint to  
win and maintain a significant number  
of multispecialism contracts with large 
corporate organisations. This has 
strengthened our relationship with these 
clients and increased our share of their 
recruitment spend.
We monitor changes in the market in 
terms of industry trends including social 
The Group faces competition from  
the increasing use of social media for 
recruitment purposes and a growing  
trend towards outsourced recruitment 
models with associated margin pressures.
media and insourcing, and continue to invest 
in our online presence to provide a high-
quality customer experience. An in-house 
innovation team, reporting to the Chief 
Executive, continually assess the market to 
identify opportunities and developments. 
Our strategic relationships, e.g. with LinkedIn, 
increase our exposure to online professional 
networking and recruitment portals on a 
global basis.
BUSINESS MODEL
We provide sustainable career 
development paths for new recruits, 
starting with a structured induction 
programme and ongoing training as  
they progress their careers at Hays.
Development centres focus on the 
progress of high-potential individuals, 
providing further development 
opportunities but also helping to  
identify any talent gaps. 
We continue to invest in our leadership 
and development programmes, which are 
aligned with the Group’s business strategy.
The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, 
train, develop and retain staff to deliver its 
growth plans internationally.
We continue to ensure that overall remuneration 
packages are competitive. These include  
a long-term incentive scheme, which is  
offered to some 320 senior managers and  
aids retention.
Annual succession plans are undertaken at 
Board and Management Board levels and 
across all regions to identify future potential 
leaders of the business and produce 
individual development plans.
TALENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 35
All new fee-earning employees receive 
training in respect of the relevant 
operating standards applicable to their 
recruitment role, with additional support 
provided by compliance functions.
Compliance processes and monitoring are 
tailored to specific specialisms, ensuring 
additional focus is given to our high-risk 
specialisms such as Education and 
Healthcare in the UK.
Operational and support staff receive 
regular training to ensure that legal and 
Increased legislation and regulations 
specific to certain business sectors and  
for temporary workers, in particular, 
necessitate pre-assignment checks,  
which may increase the Group’s  
exposure to potential legal, financial  
and reputational risk.
MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK RISK
compliance updates are understood and 
applied. In territories where legislation sets 
out additional compliance requirements, 
specialists are employed. An example  
of this is in occupational health and safety  
in Australia.
Dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot 
checks on candidate records to ensure that 
the appropriate candidate vetting checks and 
due diligence obligations are carried out in 
line with legal and contractual requirements.
COMPLIANCE
The Group’s technology strategy is 
regularly reviewed to ensure that the 
systems it operates across the Group 
support its strategic direction.
Ongoing asset lifecycle management 
programmes mitigate risks of hardware 
obsolescence. 
Our dependence on technology in our 
day-to-day business means that systems 
failure and loss of data would have a high 
impact on our operations.
Technology systems are housed in various 
data centres and the Group has capacity to 
cope with a data centre’s loss through the 
establishment of disaster recovery sites that 
are physically based in separate locations to 
the ongoing operations.
RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY
Robust procedures for handling, storing 
and transfer of confidential personal data 
are in place across the Group.
Data protection and information security 
policies and procedures are also in place 
across the Group and, where data 
protection and privacy legislation allows, 
The Group works with confidential  
personal data in 33 countries on a  
daily basis under a variety of laws and 
regulations. A material data breach  
would expose the Group to potential  
legal, financial and reputational risk.
protective email monitoring programmes  
are undertaken to address potential areas  
of concern, to best protect our confidential 
information and candidates’ personal data 
and to best mitigate the risks of cyber crime.
DA T A GOVERNANCE
During contract negotiations management 
seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the 
nature of risks and their potential impact  
is understood. 
Our global legal team has the depth  
of knowledge and experience to enable 
them to advise management on the  
level of risk presented in increasingly 
onerous contracts.
The Group Finance Director reviews  
all commercial contracts with onerous 
The Group enters into contractual 
arrangements with clients, some  
of which can be on onerous terms.
non-standard terms in accordance with  
the Group’s risk appetite.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis  
across key contracts to identify and agree 
improvements to the way in which we  
deliver services to clients.
Assurance work is undertaken in key 
countries by Internal Audit to ensure 
appropriate management of key  
contractual obligations.
CONTRACTS
Profits from Euro-based markets  
and Australia are a material proportion  
of the Group’s profitability. There is  
no active management of foreign 
exchange translation risk; however,  
it is actively monitored and its impact  
on our business disclosed to investors  
so it is fully understood.
The Group has significant operations 
outside the UK and is therefore exposed  
to foreign exchange translation risk.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE 36 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The very nature of our business is based on 
one of the most fundamental and core needs 
in society, the importance of an individual’s 
career and their work. It gives people the 
means to earn a financial income, allows them 
to be self-sufficient, gain self-respect and 
dignity, support their loved ones and, in turn, 
to make their own contribution to society. 
Equally, helping businesses around the world 
to source the talented people they need is 
essential to help economies and businesses 
grow and succeed. 
In the last 12 months alone, Hays has helped 
63,000 people around the world to find their 
next permanent job and 200,000 people to 
find their next contract or temporary role. 
Finding the right role for our candidates and 
the right person for our clients can transform 
an individual’s life and enhance a business. 
In addition, having a global footprint and a 
profound understanding of many industries 
“ At Hays we view  
our corporate social 
responsibility as an 
integral part of the 
way we do business.”
and economies means that we can also 
help candidates and businesses to prepare 
for the future world of work and sustain 
future generations. In this way, we 
contribute to the wider growth and success 
of the economies and communities in which 
we operate. We call it Powering the world  
of work and it’s why we exist as a business. 
Looking forward, we need a business-
friendly legal framework that encourages 
the development of a highly skilled and 
flexible labour force, helping companies to 
provide incentives and appropriate training 
to boost skills among all employees. 
Vocational education, skilled migration  
and training are all central to the future  
of the global economy.
ALISTAIR COX
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
27 August 2015
WORLDWIDE IN 2015 WE FILLED OVER
1,000
JOBS EVERY WORKING DAY
ENGAGED 
& DIVERSE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 37
PREPARING THE WORKFORCE FOR THE 
JOBS OF TOMORROW
Operating across 33 countries and employing 
a diverse workforce of over 9,000 employees, 
Hays is uniquely positioned to understand  
the world of work: both the current recruiting 
challenges faced by clients within a wide 
spectrum of specialised industries and 
economies, and the importance to candidates 
of securing a role that suits their skills  
and offers them the opportunity to reach 
their potential. 
However, not only do we share the depth and 
breadth of our expertise in order to place the 
right person in the right position today, but 
we also aim to help influence the future shape 
of work and prepare both candidates and 
clients for the challenges ahead. In this way, 
we can play an important role in society both 
now and in the future and ensure that we 
have a sustainable business model that can 
survive changing economies, technologies, 
demographics and business cycles. 
HELPING TO FIND JOBS FOR THE 
WORKFORCE OF TODA Y
THE UK
Hays has voiced a 
‘blueprint for jobs growth’ 
in the UK that includes:
• Encouraging greater collaboration 
between education and business to 
identify future skills needs and create 
appropriate courses; 
• Working with employers to retrain older 
workers in order to plug gaps in skills-
short areas;
• Providing employers with fiscal 
incentives to take on apprentices; and
• Identifying skilled roles that cannot be 
filled by local workers and fast-track 
visa applications for these positions. 
JAPAN
Our seminars help to  
make the future workforce 
more employable.
In partnership with local universities, Hays 
is running Gaishikei job hunting seminars 
to advise students who want to work for  
a foreign affiliated company (‘gaishikei’) 
and help them understand how  
foreign companies are  
different from domestic  
(‘nikkei’) companies.
CANADA
Networking is key when 
people move location.
Linking with the Newcomer Centre of  
Peel, Hays ran a networking event to 
advise newcomers to Canada on how to 
join the job market including advice on 
application processes and job search.
THE NETHERLANDS
Hays has signed up to 
support the government-
initiated project called 
‘Werkakkoord’ which aims 
to help tackle youth 
unemployment. 
Hays helps young people to prepare  
for work offering interview techniques  
and CV writing. 38 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED
Hays believes in taking positive action  
to tackle these issues in a practical way to 
help the communities in which we operate. 
In addition, Hays strongly believes that  
we should also demonstrate our values 
and beliefs within our own Company and 
amongst our own employees. It is key to 
our success that Hays is a company that 
people want to work for as well as do 
business with.
In fulfilling our aim to be the world leader 
in specialist recruitment, highly responsive 
to the evolving needs of our clients, we 
need to recruit the best people in the 
sector and ensure we are both efficient 
and operationally effective. Our global 
presence and in-depth knowledge of 
diverse industries allows us to have  
global thought-leadership on the world  
of work across the geographical areas  
in which we operate.
OUR PRINCIPLES BEGIN AT HOME
How we demonstrate our values with Hays’ own employees
Learning and 
development
Employees at all levels of our business 
are supported by structured, tailored 
learning and development programmes. 
This starts with a comprehensive 
induction programme and then at  
each level as our employees progress 
through the organisation.
Strong leadership and management  
are essential to our business. Executives 
are supported in their career at Hays 
through our Fast Forward and Advanced 
Management Programmes which deliver 
a broad executive curriculum. 
We have high employee 
engagement
Each year we conduct TALKback, our 
global employee engagement survey.  
For 2015, we had an 80% participation  
rate and an employee engagement level  
of 84%. The key drivers of employee 
engagement in Hays during 2015 were 
leadership and direction, along with 
learning and development. 
Year 2015 2014 2013 2012
% employee 
engagement 84% 85% 84% 83%
Global mobility
Our employees are actively encouraged 
to develop their careers by moving 
internationally. We specifically advertise 
many key roles outside their country  
of location and support the movement  
of our employees to share skills and 
expertise globally. During 2015, over  
70 employees relocated to a Hays  
office overseas.
Employee welfare
We strive to safeguard the health and 
safety of our employees and visiting 
clients and candidates. A health and  
safety programme covers the full  
range of workplace issues from  
accident reporting to home working.
Our people are key to our success  
and their welfare is important to  
us. All employees have access to  
a free and confidential employee 
assistance programme.
TURNING THE CHALLENGES OF TODA Y 
INTO OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW
The world of work is changing and is being influenced by a number 
of trends – in particular the state of the global economy, changing 
demographics, the focus on diversity, key skills shortages, global 
migration and the impact of evolving technologies.  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 39
We were named as  
one of the Best Places  
to Work in the UK
In the 2015 Glassdoor Employees’  
Choice Award we were named as  
one of the top 25 Best Places to  
Work, the only recruiter listed to receive 
this award. The Employees’ Choice  
Awards programme relies solely  
on the input of employees, who  
provide feedback on their jobs, work 
environments and companies via 
Glassdoor’s anonymous online  
company reviews survey.
Gender diversity within Hays
Role 2015 2014
Female plc Board directors 2 out of 9 (22%) 2 out of 9 (22%)
Female senior leadership and management 10 out of 51 (20%) 12 out of 59 (20%)
Female employees 5,589 out of 9,023 (62%) 5,025 out of 8,237 (61%)
Hays recognises changing 
demographics and diversity
Hays believes that corporate social 
responsibility is an integral and natural way  
of doing responsible and ethical business.
As the ultimate people business, it is vital that 
we make a positive impact on our candidates, 
our clients, our shareholders, our employees 
and the communities in which we operate, 
both now and in the future. Our responsibility 
embraces the concepts of human rights, 
diversity, ethical conduct, good corporate 
governance, giving back to society and 
minimising environmental impact. 
HUMAN RIGHTS
At Hays we are committed to our Code of 
Conduct and Ethics Policy which reflects  
the way we operate including in relation to 
human rights. All staff within Hays are 
expected to act with integrity and honesty 
and behave in a way that is above reproach, 
as well as treat people fairly, with courtesy 
and respect, be responsible, respect diversity 
and communicate openly.
Included in our Code of Conduct is an Equal 
Opportunity Policy. We make every effort  
to ensure that no discrimination arises during  
the recruitment, employment and period 
after employment of any employee for 
reasons of gender, sexual orientation, marital 
status, creed, colour, race, nationality, ethnic  
or national origin, religious or other belief, 
political opinion, spent convictions, disability 
or age, and all employees are expected to 
deal with all persons with the same attention, 
courtesy and consideration. This support  
of equal opportunities applies not only  
as a direct employer but also in our 
introduction of candidates to clients.
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
We expect our suppliers to operate  
in an ethical, legally compliant and 
professional manner. 
The standards we expect are detailed in our 
Supplier Code of Conduct, a copy of which 
can be found on our website, haysplc.com. 40 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED
POLAND
Hays Poland took part in the New Energy 
Forum Conference, organised by the 
Foundation Leslaw Paga. 
The conference was aimed at young people who wished  
to develop a career in the energy industry. In addition,  
Hays has participated in lectures at the University of Gdansk 
discussing labour market requirements  
in the life-sciences field.
THE UK
There is an under-representation of women 
in science and engineering, making up just 
13% of the UK workforce. 
With 2.74 million job opportunities predicted in engineering 
companies by 2020, there are many opportunities for careers  
in this sector. Hays linked with the Institution of Civil Engineers  
to help 50 female schoolchildren from year nine to build a giant 
tetrahedron and learn about life as an engineer.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES PREDICTED  
IN ENGINEERING COMPANIES BY 2020
2.74m
BELGIUM
Young employees of the future are likely 
to change jobs several times during their 
working lifetime or have a portfolio career. 
Hays can help identify transferable skills.
Every Hays office in Belgium has a local partnership with a 
university. Hays offers students support in how to apply for jobs, 
CV writing and enhancing their social media profiles,  
for example on LinkedIn.
COLOMBIA
Hays feels that education should  
be available to everyone and is key  
to ensuring future employment.
Together with a foundation called Vision Mundial, Hays has 
sponsored the education of a local girl, including tuition fees 
and study books.
SPAIN
Hays believes in helping young people  
to reach their potential.
Hays worked with the Fundacion Tomillo which aims to increase  
the employability of children from disadvantaged backgrounds. 
This included giving English lessons to a group of students,  
two of whom are now going to have a two-month internship  
in the UK. Having never travelled outside of Spain  
before, this support included advising  
on the working environment  
and cultural differences.
OUR DEMOGRAPHICS ARE CHANGING
People will be expected to work for longer 
and may need to learn new skills as they 
get older.
The focus on diversity in the workforce is therefore key – this is not 
only about gender diversity and advancing the careers of women 
but recognising the value of a truly diverse working population.
Hays actively supports young people by helping them prepare for 
working life and champions diversity issues in our global locations. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 41
THE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE WORK
Hays employs over 9,000 people and operates in 33 countries and therefore  
we are very aware of our local communities and responsibilities to our employees,  
our neighbours and the environment.
WE TRY TO MINIMISE IMPACT ON THE 
GEOGRAPHIES IN WHICH WE WORK
Hays is a services-based business and 
therefore our impact on the environment is 
relatively low. However, our strategy is to do 
more each year to use fewer natural resources 
and limit any impact on the geographical 
areas in which we operate. We want to:
• Reduce carbon dioxide emissions;
• Reduce waste;
• Reduce paper consumption; and
• Reduce energy usage.
We recycle paper, have a ‘Switch-it-Off’ 
campaign around the Group with particular 
focus on turning off office lighting, air 
conditioning and IT equipment when not in 
use, and encourage teleconferencing to 
reduce travel-related emissions.
Hays in the UK has ISO 14001  
environmental management certification, 
which demonstrates our commitment to 
environmental management.
WE HAVE RIGOROUS PROCEDURES  
TO REVIEW OUR CARBON EMISSIONS
In order to assess our carbon footprint,  
Hays gathers data from every office around 
the world, including information on 
operational and vehicle use, electricity 
consumption, refrigerant, other Transport 
and Distribution (T&D) loss calculations  
and business travel in order to calculate  
our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
Our data is independently verified by  
Carbon Smart who conduct the verification 
engagement in accordance with  
ISO 14064-3:2006(E) – specification with 
guidance for the validation and verification  
of greenhouse gas assertions. The Hays 
global carbon footprint, including the process 
for arriving at this carbon footprint, was 
prepared in accordance with the (WRI) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
WE MEASURE HOW WELL WE ARE DOING
We measure our annual emissions in  
relation to employees (our ‘intensity ratio’).  
As a people-based business, number of 
employees is a quantifiable factor associated 
2015 2014
Impact Scope Resource
Total GHGs 
(tonnes CO 2e)
(1)
% contribution 
to total
Total GHGs 
(tonnes CO 2e)
(1)
% contribution 
to total
Direct Scope 1 Operational fuel 199 1 136 1
Vehicle fuel 4,201 24 4,962 28
Refrigerant 264 2 59 0
Indirect Scope 2 Electricity
(2)
6,546 37 5,937 33
District heating 370 2 263 1
Scope 3 Air travel 4,569 26 5,341 30
Rail travel 611 3 687 4
Electricity T&D losses 602 3 481 3
Private cars (business use) 377 2 0 0
Total direct and indirect 17,739 100 17,866 100
(1)  Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO 2 e (carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide) for the 12-month  
period ended 31 March 2015. Out of scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 106 tonnes of CO 2 e (38 tonnes in FY14).
(2)  All international electricity-related emissions were calculated based on a CO 2 conversion factor. CO 2 e conversion factors are not currently available for  
international electricity.
By order of the Board
DOUG EVANS 
COMPANY SECRETARY
27 August 2015
with our activities. Our reporting year for  
GHG emissions is 1 April to 31 March and this 
year our employee intensity per tonne CO
2
e 
was 1.98 (against 2.22 last year).
COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Our passion for people goes beyond 
recruitment to help support various local 
charities and causes that are important to  
our communities and to our employees.  
We encourage our employees to take part  
in volunteering, fundraising activities and  
to donate funds to charities nominated at 
country and local levels.
During 2015, among many activities, 
employees have supported the ‘Movember’ 
campaign to raise awareness of men’s health 
issues, abseiled buildings to support young 
people in crisis regain their health, raised 
money for cerebral palsy, run for breast 
cancer, organised Christmas toy giving 
events, funded a kindergarten in Nepal and 
raised money for the Brain Tumour Charity. 42 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present to you the 
Governance section of our 2015 Annual 
Report and, further, to report that we have 
complied with the 2012 Edition of UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
throughout the year; further detail can  
be found in the Corporate Governance 
Statement. We have already taken the steps 
necessary for compliance with the 2014 
edition of the Code and will report to you  
on that next year. As your Chairman, the 
strong governance framework we have in 
place at Hays continues to be of the utmost 
importance to me and you will hopefully see 
over the following pages that this framework 
ensures your Board acts with integrity, 
transparency and diligence. As both a people 
business and a global business, these values 
are core to everything we do, and I, and the 
rest of your Board understand the behaviours 
expected of us, and we keep very much in 
focus the interests of all stakeholders in this 
Company, from shareholders, clients and 
candidates to the wider community of which 
we are very much a part.  
As I reported to you last year, William 
Eccleshare retired from the Board at our AGM 
last year. In February this year we were very 
pleased to welcome Peter Williams as a 
valuable addition to our number. As one of 
the longest serving CFOs in the FTSE prior to 
stepping down as Group Finance Director of 
Daily Mail & General Trust plc, coupled with 
his recent time as a non-executive director  
of a leading digital sports media company, 
Peter’s experience provides further strength 
and depth to the Board.
At our forthcoming AGM Richard Smelt will 
be retiring from his position as a non-
executive director. Richard was appointed to 
the Board in November 2007 and during his 
tenure has been an invaluable asset, not only 
because of his corporate experience but also 
through his knowledge and wisdom as what 
might be described as an ‘end-user’ of the 
services offered by Hays. On behalf of the 
whole Board, I would like to record our thanks 
to Richard for his knowledge and insight 
provided during his time with us.  
We are looking to add further to the Board’s 
membership, to ensure we continue to have 
the right mix of skills and experience to tackle 
the challenges faced by the business in the 
ever-evolving environment in which we 
operate. In so doing, we will continue to take 
into account the principles of diversity, in all 
its forms, notwithstanding that we will always 
seek to appoint the most suitable candidate.  
Ensuring the Board has the right composition 
is only one aspect of its effective performance. 
The Board evaluation process undertaken in 
2014 provided an opportunity for further 
improvement to its effective functioning and  
I am pleased to report that, following the 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 43
Board evaluation process, these have been 
well received and with noticeable results. 
Ensuring the individual members, as well  
as the executive and non-executive groups, 
are working optimally ensures the Board is 
providing the necessary stewardship required 
to fulfil the goal of effective governance and 
appropriate accountability. We will be 
conducting an external evaluation of the 
Board next year, not simply because we are 
required to, but because we recognise the 
merit that such an external ‘lens’ can provide. 
We have welcomed some new colleagues  
to Hays this year with our acquisition of the 
Veredus business in December 2014. This is  
a great fit for us and enables us to build on 
our existing presence in the US and further 
strengthens the global offering we provide 
our clients. I met the new US senior 
management team across three of their 
offices on a recent visit and saw first-hand 
what a great business we have been able  
to add to the Hays Group, and look forward  
to a further visit with the Board over the 
course of the coming year. We shall also be 
visiting our Sydney and Tokyo operations  
this year, in two countries where we are the 
market leader but which represent more 
mature and immature markets respectively.   
As the world becomes more connected,  
and disruptive technologies challenge the 
norm, the Board keeps under constant review 
the Group’s appetite for risk and ensures the 
framework within which that is managed  
is appropriately balanced against potential 
rewards. Strong corporate governance  
is at the heart of how we operate and  
I encourage you to read further on that  
in the coming pages.   
I look forward to meeting any shareholders 
who can join us at our AGM in November,  
and extend my thanks to you all for your 
continued support as we look forward to  
the year ahead.
ALAN THOMSON
CHAIRMAN
27 August 2015
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Responsibility for good governance rests 
with the Board; this is underpinned by an 
effective governance framework which, 
the Board believes, fits the requirements 
of Hays’ business. 
The Board retains certain matters for its 
own preserve; other specific responsibilities 
are delegated to its principal committees, 
namely the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee. Each of these 
Committees operates within defined terms 
of reference, which are available on the 
Company’s website. The Board has also 
delegated to a sub-committee certain 
matters which are routine in nature, or 
which have been agreed in principle by  
the Board; such matters require a meeting 
of three directors, with an appropriate mix 
of executives and non-executives. Such 
matters are reported to the full Board.
The Chairman of each Committee reports 
to the Board on its proceedings, and 
minutes of the meetings are available  
as appropriate. 
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE
• Sets standards, values, policies and 
strategic aims
• Ensures we have the resources in place  
to meet our objectives
• Monitors and reviews material  
strategic issues, financial performance 
and risk management
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Reviews and monitors financial 
statements
• Oversees external audit
• Reviews internal audit plans
 p54
 p46
MANAGEMENT BOARD
Day-to-day management of our business and operations, 
responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all 
aspects of our business
 p46
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE
Provides strategic leadership, direction and oversight of risk
 p51
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
• Sets, reviews and recommends overall 
remuneration policy and strategy
• Reviews and approves remuneration 
arrangements for executive directors 
and senior management
 p61
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
• Makes recommendations to the 
Board on its composition and that  
of its Committees
 p52
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Responsible for the overall management of the organisation of our business 44 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1 2 4
1. ALAN THOMSON (68)
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Appointed: 1 October 2010 (and as Chairman 
on 10 November 2010)
Committees: Nomination (Chairman)
Skills and experience: A post-graduate  
of Glasgow University and a Chartered 
Accountant, Alan’s early career was with 
Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse. This 
was followed by senior management roles 
with Rockwell International plc, Raychem Ltd 
and Courtaulds plc, after which he became 
Finance Director of Rugby Group plc and  
then Smiths Group plc. Alan is a former 
Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey 
plc, former Chairman of Polypipe Group plc 
and a past President of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Principal external appointments: Chairman 
of Bodycote plc; Non-executive Director of 
Alstom SA.
2. ALISTAIR COX (54)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Appointed: 1 September 2007
Skills and experience: A Chartered Engineer 
with an MBA from Stanford University, 
Alistair’s early career was in various field 
engineering, management and research 
science roles with British Aerospace and then 
Schlumberger. Following his MBA, Alistair 
worked for McKinsey & Company before 
joining Blue Circle Industries, where he was 
the Group Strategy Director and then the 
Regional Director for Asia. Prior to joining 
Hays, Alistair was Chief Executive of  
Xansa plc.
Principal external appointments:  
Non-Executive Director of 3i Group plc.
3. PAUL VENABLES (53)
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Appointed: 2 May 2006
Skills and experience: A Chartered 
Accountant and also USA qualified, Paul 
started his career at Deloitte & Touche where 
he was a Senior Manager in its USA practice. 
This was followed by a 13-year career at Exel 
plc where he held a number of senior finance 
and operational roles including Deputy Group 
Finance Director and was a member of the 
Executive Board of Exel plc and Chairman of 
their Acquisitions and Project Review Board. 
Following the acquisition of Exel plc by 
Deutsche Post, Paul worked in its DHL 
Logistics division before joining Hays. Paul 
was, until July 2015, Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc. 
4. PAUL HARRISON (51)
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 8 May 2007 (and Senior 
Independent Director on 9 November 2011) 
Committees: Remuneration (Chairman), 
Audit and Nomination 
Skills and experience: Paul trained as a 
Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse. 
He joined The Sage Group plc as Financial 
Controller in 1997 and was Group Finance 
Director from 2000 to 2013. In September 
2013, Paul joined WANdisco plc as Chief 
Financial Officer.
5. VICTORIA JARMAN (43)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 1 October 2011
Committees: Audit (Chairman), Nomination 
and Remuneration
Skills and experience: An engineering 
graduate of the University of Leicester and  
a Chartered Accountant, Victoria started her 
career with KPMG before moving to Lazard 
Corporate Finance, where she was Chief 
Operating Officer of Lazard’s London and 
Middle East operations and a member of its 
European Management Committee. Victoria 
is currently a Non-Executive Director of De  
La Rue plc, where she is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member of its Ethics, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees, 
and a Non-Executive Director of Equiniti 
Group Limited where she is the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and a member of the 
Risk Committee.
3 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 45
8
6. TORSTEN KREINDL (52)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 1 June 2013 
Committees: Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Skills and experience: A graduate from 
Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria 
with a PhD in industrial engineering and 
technical chemistry. Torsten has held senior 
executive positions for Booz Allen Hamilton 
and Deutsche Telekom AG. He is a partner in 
Grazia Equity, a Munich-based capital firm, 
and a member of the Swisscom AG board.
7. RICHARD SMELT (58)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 15 November 2007
Committees: Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration
Skills and experience: A psychology 
graduate from Leeds University with an MBA 
from the London Business School, Richard  
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel and Development with a 30-year 
career in Human Resources. Richard has 
previously been the Human Resources 
Director for Carphone Warehouse Group plc 
and Northern Rock plc, post nationalisation, 
and has also worked in private equity. Richard 
is presently the HR Director of McCain Foods.
8. PIPPA WICKS (52)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 1 January 2012
Committees: Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration
Skills and experience: A post-graduate  
of Oxford University with a diploma in 
corporate finance from the London Business 
School, Pippa started her career with Bain  
& Company. She subsequently became Chief 
Financial Officer of Courtauld Textiles plc and 
then Chief Executive Officer of FT Knowledge, 
the corporate training division of Pearson plc. 
Her previous non-executive directorships 
have been with Ladbrokes plc, Hilton 
International plc and Arcadia plc. Pippa  
is presently the Managing Director of 
AlixPartners UK LLP.
9. PETER WILLIAMS (62)
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Appointed: 24 February 2015
Committees: Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration
Skills and experience: Peter has a Law 
degree from Cambridge University and  
is a Chartered Accountant. He was, until  
2011, Group Finance Director of Daily Mail & 
General Trust plc, a role he performed for 19 
years, making him one of the longest serving 
CFOs in the FTSE. Since 2011 Peter has been  
a Non-Executive Director of Perform Group,  
a leading digital sports media company; he  
is also a Trustee of the Royal Academy and  
a member of the Industrial Advisory Board  
of GVQ Asset Management, a UK equity 
management company.
10. DOUG EVANS (52)
COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL 
COUNSEL
Appointed: 4 February 2013 
Skills and experience: A law graduate from 
Rhodes University who began his career with 
Webber Wentzel in South Africa, specialising 
in corporate and commercial law before 
moving in-house. Doug has previously held 
the posts of Company Secretary & Corporate 
Legal Director at Exel plc and Group General 
Counsel at Royal Mail Limited. Prior to joining 
Hays, Doug was an Executive Director, 
Company Secretary & General Counsel at 
Mitchells & Butlers plc.
9 10 7
6 46 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Statement of Code 
Compliance
Hays plc is subject to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council (available 
at frc.org.uk), which was published in 
September 2012. As a listed company, 
Hays is required to report on how it has 
applied the principles of the Code and  
this is set out in the following pages. The 
Board is pleased to report that Hays has 
complied with all of the provisions of the 
Code throughout the year ended 30 June 
2015 and to the date of this document.
THE HAYS BOARD
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
The Board is currently made up of two 
executive directors and seven non-executive 
directors, including the Chairman. Their 
biographies, including prior experience,  
are set out on pages 44 and 45. 
Hays’ Group policy is to hire the best 
candidates for all positions at all levels 
throughout the business, irrespective of 
gender, including candidates at Board level. 
With two female independent non-executive 
directors, namely Victoria Jarman and Pippa 
Wicks, 22% of the current Board is female 
(representing 28.5% of non-executives). 
Further information and statistics on gender 
diversity can be found within our Corporate 
Responsibility Report on page 39. The Board 
has not set any specific aspirations in respect 
of gender diversity at Board level and 
supports fully the Code principles in respect 
of diversity. However, the Board is of the view 
that diversity is less about quotas, and 
recognises the benefits of diversity, of which 
gender is one aspect, and it will continue to 
ensure that this is taken into account when 
considering any particular appointment, 
whilst ensuring appointments are made on 
merit and ability to enhance the performance 
of the business.
BOARD CHANGES DURING THE YEAR
Board composition is routinely reviewed to 
ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience of the Hays Board remains 
appropriate to its business. William Eccleshare 
retired from the Board at the conclusion of 
our 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM); 
Peter Williams was appointed to the Board in 
February 2015. Richard Smelt will retire from 
the Board following the conclusion of the 
Company’s 2015 AGM on 11 November 2015. 
Work to add to the Board’s number continues 
and further information can be found in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 52.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF 
DIRECTORS AT THE 2015 AGM
In accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association and the principles of the Code, 
with the exception of Richard Smelt all 
Directors of the Company will offer themselves 
for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM. 
Having received advice from the Nomination 
Committee, the Board is satisfied that each 
director is qualified for election or re-election 
by virtue of their skills, experience and 
commitment to the Board.
OPERATIONAL GOVERNANCE
THE MANAGEMENT BOARD
Responsibility for the day-to-day 
management of our business and operations 
rests with the Chief Executive, who operates 
through the Management Board – the 
principal executive committee within Hays.  
In performing this role, the Management 
Board also has responsibility for monitoring 
detailed performance of all aspects of  
our business. 
The Management Board, which meets 
monthly, is chaired by the Chief Executive and 
also comprises the Group Finance Director, 
the Company Secretary & General Counsel, 
the Group HR Director, the Chief Marketing 
Officer, the Group Technology Director and 
the Managing Directors of the Group’s three 
main operating divisions. Each Management 
Board member has a clearly defined remit, 
business objectives and financial budget 
within which they operate. 
Our organisational structure is built around 
three regions globally: UK & Ireland; Continental 
Europe & Rest of World; and Asia Pacific. 
Regional Managing Directors operate their 
business through regional boards, which 
comprise key business and functional 
managers with specific responsibilities within 
those regions. Each business is given 
operational autonomy, as far as possible, 
within a well-established internal control 
framework which consists of, among other 
things, a Group-wide set of policies and 
procedures, operational delegated authorities 
and policies on anti-bribery and corruption, 
competition compliance, conduct and ethics, 
and whistleblowing.
LEADERSHIP
THE ROLE OF THE HAYS PLC BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible to the 
Company’s shareholders for the long-term 
success of the Company. It sets the 
Company’s strategic objectives and 
determines the risk appetite and control 
framework within which those objectives  
are achieved. The Board provides effective 
oversight of the Company and its businesses 
within a robust governance structure that 
helps achieve the long-term success of  
the Company and deliver sustainable 
shareholder value. 
GENDER COMPOSITION
 Female 22%
  M a l e 7 8 %
BOARD COMPOSITION
 Executive 22%
  Cha i r ma n 1 1 %
  N o n - e xe c u t i v e 6 7 % STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 47
The Board also provides leadership of the 
Company and direction for management, 
ensuring that the necessary financial and 
human resources are in place for the 
Company to meet its objectives and it keeps 
under review management’s performance  
in regard to achieving those objectives. 
Our aim is to be the world’s pre-eminent 
specialist recruitment business. In pursuit  
of that aim our employees across the globe 
work towards achieving our Strategic 
Objectives, set out on page 15. The Board 
closely monitors management and its delivery 
of a sustainable and profitable business, 
ensuring it continues to operate within the 
appropriate risk-reward culture. The Board 
has established a core set of values, which it 
adheres to and promotes throughout the 
Group. These values, which underpin our 
skills, behaviours and way of doing business, 
are being ambitious, being passionate about 
people, being expert at what we do and  
being inquisitive about the world of work. 
These values have helped to engender the 
entrepreneurial culture within Hays, which  
has been critical to our continued success 
without promoting excessive risk-taking. 
ROLE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Hays’ non-executive directors have a broad 
and complementary mix of business skills, 
knowledge and experience acquired across 
sectors and geographies. This allows them  
to provide strong, independent and external 
perspectives to Board discussions, which 
complement the skills and experience of the 
executive directors. In turn, this leads to a 
diversity of views being aired at Board 
meetings, robust and constructive debate 
and optimal decision-making. At the same 
time, it also reduces the likelihood of any  
one perspective prevailing unduly. 
A key role performed by the non-executive 
directors is the scrutiny of executive 
management in meeting agreed objectives 
and monitoring the reporting of performance. 
They also ensure that financial controls and 
systems of risk management are both rigorous 
and appropriate for the needs of the business.
The terms and conditions of appointment  
of non-executive directors, including the 
expected time commitment, are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office, 
and a pro forma letter of appointment is  
also available on the Company’s website.
During the year, the Board considered the 
independence of each of the non-executive 
directors, save for the Chairman who was 
deemed independent by the Board at the 
date of his appointment. In doing so, it 
concluded that each non-executive director 
remained independent of management and 
free from any relationship that could interfere 
with the exercise of their independent 
judgment. All of Hays’ directors are believed 
to act in the best interests of the Company. 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate, with a clear division of 
responsibilities between them which is set out 
in writing; the responsibility for this separation 
of duties rests formally with the Board.
As Chairman, Alan Thomson presides over 
the Board and is responsible for its leadership 
and overall effectiveness. In doing so, he 
fosters and helps to maintain an effective 
working relationship between the executive 
and non-executive directors.
As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has 
responsibility for the day-to-day  
management of the Company’s business  
and the implementation and delivery  
of the Board strategy. 
This separation of roles enhances the 
independent oversight of executive 
management by the Board and more  
closely aligns the Board with shareholders.  
It also means that no one individual within  
the Company has unfettered powers of 
decision-making. 
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
The Board appointed Paul Harrison to the 
position of Senior Independent Director on 
9 November 2011. In performing this role  
Paul provides shareholders with someone  
to whom they can turn if ever they have 
concerns which they cannot address through 
the normal channels, for example with the 
Chairman or executive directors. Similarly,  
as Senior Independent Director Paul is 
available as an intermediary between his 
fellow directors and the Chairman. While 
there were no requests from directors  
or shareholders for access to the Senior 
Independent Director during the year,  
the role serves as an important check  
and balance in Hays’ governance process.  
In the fulfilment of his role Paul ensures  
he maintains a thorough understanding  
of the views of the Company’s shareholders.
Key roles and responsibilities of these 
positions, and that of the Company Secretary, 
are provided overleaf.
DIRECTORS’ TENURE AS AT 30 JUNE 2015
Victoria Jarman
Torsten Kreindl
Peter Williams
Pippa Wicks
Richard Smelt
Alan Thomson
Paul Harrison
Paul Venables
Alistair Cox
3 yrs 9 mths
2 yrs 1 mth
4 mths
3 yrs 6 mths
7 yrs 7 mths
4 yrs 9 mths
8 yrs 2 mths
9 yrs 2 mths
7 yrs 10 mths 48 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Key roles and responsibilities
CHAIRMAN
ALAN THOMSON
• Leadership and the effective 
operation of the Board
• Chairing the Board and 
Nomination Committee
• Setting the agenda, style and 
tone of Board discussions 
including promoting openness, 
debate and effective individual 
contribution
• Ensuring that all directors 
receive clear and accurate 
information on a timely basis
• Ensuring the effectiveness of 
the Board through induction, 
ongoing training and regular 
evaluations
• Effective communications with 
shareholders
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
ALISTAIR COX
• Day-to-day management of 
the Group’s business
• Formulating strategic business 
objectives for Board approval 
and implementing approved 
strategic objectives and 
policies
• Managing and optimising the 
operational and financial 
performance of the business  
in conjunction with the Group 
Finance Director
• Fostering a good working 
relationship with the Chairman
• Chairing the Management 
Board and developing senior 
talent within the business for 
succession planning
SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTOR
PAUL HARRISON
• Acting as a sounding board  
for the Chairman
• Serving as an alternative 
contact and intermediary  
for other directors and 
shareholders
• Leading the Chairman’s annual 
performance appraisal and 
ultimate succession
COMPANY SECRETARY & 
GENERAL COUNSEL
DOUG EVANS
• Acting as Secretary to the 
Board, its Committees and  
the Management Board
• Providing legal and 
governance support to the 
Board as a whole and directors 
individually
• Ensuring that the Group 
complies with all relevant legal, 
regulatory and governance 
requirements
BOARD COMMITMENT
The Board has established a policy permitting 
its executive directors to hold only one 
external non-executive directorship, subject 
to any possible conflict of interest. This 
ensures that executive directors retain 
sufficient time for and focus on the 
Company’s business, whilst allowing them to 
gain external board exposure as part of their 
leadership development. Executive directors 
are permitted to retain any fees paid for such 
services. Details of fees received by each of 
the executive directors for the year ended  
31 March 2015 (the year-end date of the 
relevant companies) are shown below:
Director Fee
External 
appointment
Alistair Cox £80,000 3i Group plc
Paul Venables £53,000 Wincanton plc
While the Company does not have a similar 
policy for non-executive directors, their key 
external commitments are reviewed each 
year to ensure that they too have sufficient 
time commitment for the fulfilment of their 
Board responsibilities. Key external 
commitments of the Board are included 
within their biographies on pages 44 and 45. 
The Board considered the commitments of 
the Chairman and is satisfied that he has 
sufficient time to devote to his Board 
responsibilities with Hays. It was noted Alan 
Thomson stepped down during the year as a 
non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc in 
October 2014 and as Chairman of Polypipe 
Group plc in May 2015. 
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD
A schedule of formal matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision and approval is available on 
our website, haysplc.com. These largely relate 
to matters of governance and business where 
independence from executive management  
is important, and include the following:
• Approving financial results and other 
financial, corporate and governance 
matters;
• Approving material contracts;
• Approving Group strategy;
• Approving appointments to the Board;
• Approving and recommending dividends 
as appropriate and deciding dividend 
policy;
• Reviewing material litigation;
• Approving major capital projects, 
acquisitions and disposals;
• Reviewing annually the effectiveness  
of internal control and the nature and 
extent of significant risks identified by 
management and associated mitigation 
strategies; and
• Approving the annual budget.
No changes to the schedule of matters were 
made during the year. Board decisions are 
usually by consensus at Board meetings.  
On occasion, decisions may be taken by a 
majority of Board members. In the case of an 
equality of votes, Hays’ Articles of Association 
provide the Chairman with a second or 
casting vote. 
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
The Board meets regularly throughout  
the year and agrees a forward calendar  
of matters that it wishes to discuss at  
each meeting. Standing items, including 
operational, functional and financial reviews 
and Committee updates are considered  
at each scheduled Board meeting, with 
unplanned items such as commercial or 
property-related decisions being considered 
as and when required. The Chairman, in 
conjunction with the Chief Executive and 
Company Secretary, plans the agenda for 
each Board meeting and ensures that 
supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely 
and of sufficient quality to enable the Board 
to discharge its duties. 
All Board directors have access to the 
Company Secretary, who advises them on 
Board and governance matters. As well as  
the support of the Company Secretary, there 
is a procedure in place for any director to  
take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in the furtherance of 
their duties, where considered necessary. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 49
Board focus during 2015 – What the Board has done in the year
DEVELOPING A SUCCESSFUL STRATEGY
• Attended a Group Strategy away day, with 
members of the Management Board and 
other senior executives, to consider key 
strategic priorities and challenges faced 
across the business
• Approved the Group strategy and 
reviewed associated performance 
• Visited operations in Germany and the  
UK, receiving presentations from senior 
management on business performance, 
the state of the market, strategy and 
opportunities
• Reviewed strategy plans and received 
reports on the operational performance 
for the Group’s regions
• Reviewed and approved the acquisition  
of Veredus Corp. in the US
• Received reports on technology and 
innovation and related industry 
developments
• Reviewed Group risk
ENSURING APPROPRIATE FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT
• Received and considered regular reports 
on the Group’s financial performance
• Approved financial announcements  
for publication
• Approved the annual budget
• Approved dividend policy, payments  
and recommendations as appropriate, 
including consideration of a special 
dividend
• Reviewed and approved the Group’s 
refinancing of its new revolving credit 
facility
• Met with the Company’s financial advisers 
and corporate brokers
• Considered ad hoc property and finance-
related transactions
IMPLEMENTING GOVERNANCE AND 
ETHICS AND MONITORING RISK
• Performed the annual review of the 
effectiveness of internal control and  
the nature and extent of risks identified 
together with mitigation plans
• Reviewed regular reports on legal and 
compliance matters from the Company 
Secretary
• Received formal training updates on 
corporate reporting, legal and regulatory 
matters
• Reviewed Board and Committee 
effectiveness
• Reviewed and approved changes to the 
terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee
• Reviewed the Directors’ Conflicts  
of Interest procedures
• Reviewed the Company’s compliance with 
the Code
MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES
• Considered the results from TALKback, the 
Group’s employee engagement survey
• Considered and approved invitations 
under the Company’s all-employee  
share plans
ENGAGING WITH INVESTORS
• Received regular updates on views  
and feedback from investors 
• Considered the Company’s investor 
relations strategy
BUILDING STRONG LEADERS
• Considered the tools employed in the 
leadership and development strategy
• Reviewed the Group’s succession plans 
and assessed risks and options
BOARD ATTENDANCE
The Board met a total of seven times during the year. In addition, the Board attended an annual Strategy Review meeting with the  
Management Board being present. Six Board meetings were held in the UK and one in Mannheim, Germany. One ad hoc Board meeting  
was held during the year.
Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below.
Board and Committee attendance Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Alan Thomson 7 of 7 – 2 of 2 –
Alistair Cox 7 of 7 – – –
Paul Venables
(1)
6 of 7 – – –
Paul Harrison 7 of 7 4 of 4 1 of 2 3 of 3
Victoria Jarman 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3
Torsten Kreindl 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3
Richard Smelt 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3
Pippa Wicks
(2)
6 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3
Peter Williams
(3)
2 of 2 1 of 1 0 of 0 1 of 1
William Eccleshare
(4)
4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2
(1) Unable to attend one Board meeting due to serious family illness. 
(2) Unable to attend ad hoc Board meeting due to prior commitment. 
(3) Appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015.
(4) Retired from the Board on 12 November 2014. 50 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
The questionnaire covered a broad  
base of subject matter in order to assess 
effectiveness, such as the conduct of Board 
meetings and their administration; risk; 
strategy; Board composition and member 
performance; and the broader challenges 
faced by the Board and how those are 
managed. Committee effectiveness was  
also assessed separately. Results were 
presented to the Board and areas for 
improved operation identified and agreed. 
There was general agreement that, overall, 
the Board and its Committees continued to 
operate effectively throughout the period and 
that its operation had improved since the last 
review. Board members’ experience remains a 
key strength, notwithstanding that it could be 
bolstered further with additional member(s) 
with relevant experience; the number of 
Board meetings was considered to be 
appropriate, and acknowledgement was 
made of the improvement to the scheduling 
of meetings over the year. It was noted that 
the benefit of closer time management in 
Board meetings was evident but that the 
interaction with regional management teams 
could be enhanced. 
In accordance with the Code, an externally 
facilitated Board evaluation will be conducted 
in 2016. 
The Senior Independent Director led a 
separate appraisal of the Chairman’s 
performance with his fellow non-executive 
directors, which took into consideration  
both the executive and non-executive 
directors’ views. 
Good progress against the action points 
identified in the 2014 Board evaluation has 
been made during the year. These included 
risk, succession planning and communication 
between the executive and non-executive 
elements of the Board.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by 
directors of any interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with the Company’s 
interests and for the appropriate authorisation 
to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance 
with the Company’s Articles of Association.  
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or 
potential conflict of interest only those 
directors that have no interest in the matter 
under consideration will be able to take the 
BOARD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
On appointment, each director takes part  
in a tailored and comprehensive induction 
programme which is designed to give him or 
her a deep understanding of the Company’s 
business, governance and stakeholders. 
Elements of the programme include:
• Senior management briefings to provide  
a business overview, current trading 
conditions and strategic commercial issues;
• Meetings with the Company’s key advisers 
and major shareholders, where necessary;
• Business site visits across regions;
• A legal and regulatory briefing on the 
duties of directors of listed companies;
• Details of the Group corporate structure, 
Board and Committee structures and 
arrangements, and key policies and 
procedures; and
• The latest statutory financial reports  
and management accounts.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary, ensures that directors 
are provided with updates on changes in the 
legal and regulatory environment in which the 
Company operates. These are incorporated 
into the annual agenda of the Board’s 
activities along with wider business and 
industry updates; the Chairman also keeps 
under review the individual training needs of 
Board members. The Company’s principal 
external advisers provide updates to the 
Board, at least annually, on the latest 
developments in their respective fields, and 
relevant update sessions are included in the 
Board’s strategy meetings. The Company 
Secretary presents corporate governance 
reports to the Board as appropriate, together 
with any relevant technical directives issued 
by the Company’s auditor. In this way, each 
director keeps their skills and knowledge 
current so they remain competent in fulfilling 
their role both on the Board and on any 
Committee of which they are a member.
BOARD EVALUATION
During the 2015 financial year the Board 
assessed its own effectiveness through an 
internal Board evaluation process. The 2015 
evaluation was facilitated by the Chairman.  
All directors completed an evaluation 
questionnaire, followed up with one-to-one 
meetings with the Chairman as appropriate. 
relevant decision; in taking such a decision  
the directors must act in a way they consider, 
in good faith, will be most likely to promote 
the success of the Company and may impose 
such limits or conditions as they think fit. The 
Board has reviewed the procedures in place 
and considers that they continue to operate 
effectively. There were no actual or potential 
conflicts of interest which were required to  
be authorised by the Board during the year 
under review or to the date of this report.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT WITH INVESTORS
Responsibility for shareholder relations rests 
with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director. They ensure that there is 
effective communication with shareholders 
on matters such as governance and strategy, 
and are responsible for ensuring that the 
Board understands the views of major 
shareholders on such matters. 
The Company’s investor relations programme 
is supported by a designated Investor 
Relations team which acts as the primary 
point of contact with the investor community 
and is responsible for managing ongoing 
relations with investors and shareholders.  
The Board receives regular reports from  
the Investor Relations team. Feedback  
from meetings held between executive 
management, or the Investor Relations team, 
and institutional shareholders is also reported 
to the Board.
As a part of a comprehensive investor 
relations programme, formal meetings are 
scheduled with investors and analysts to 
discuss the Group‘s interim and final results.  
In the intervening periods, Hays continues  
its dialogue with the investor community  
by meeting key investor representatives, 
holding investor roadshows and participating 
in conferences. Meetings with debt providers, 
principally the Company’s banks, also take 
place on a regular basis. During the year,  
the executive directors and senior 
management met with almost two hundred 
institutions around the world, interacting  
with shareholders and potential shareholders. 
Presentations to analysts are posted on the 
Company’s website at haysplc.com and  
if you would like to know more about  
our relations with shareholders please  
contact ir@hays.com.
Individual investors met in FY15 United Kingdom
Continental 
Europe North America Total
Alistair Cox 55 32 29 116
Paul Venables 97 15 22 134
Investor Relations team 110 41 48 199
Other senior management 9 3 0 12 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 51
ACCOUNTABILITY
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s internal control systems and for 
reviewing their effectiveness. This has been 
designed to assist the Board in making better, 
more risk-informed, strategic decisions with  
a view to creating and protecting shareholder 
value. In practice, the Board delegates the 
task of implementing its policy on risk and 
control to management. Further support and 
assistance is provided by an independent 
Internal Audit function, details of which are 
provided in the Audit Committee Report.
The Management Board oversees an 
enterprise risk management system  
which allows for a holistic, top-down and 
bottom-up view of key risks facing the 
business. These are recorded in a Group risk 
register, which is reviewed at least annually  
by the Management Board and submitted to 
the Board thereafter to enable it to carry out 
its risk oversight responsibility. This exercise 
involves a current and forward look at various 
risks affecting the business and prioritising 
them according to risk magnitude and 
likelihood. Risks covered include operational, 
business and compliance risks as well as 
financial risks. Each risk is assigned an owner 
with current and future risk mitigation 
procedures detailed, with the continuing 
monitoring of these undertaken on an 
ongoing basis. The principal risks currently 
facing the business are detailed in the 
Strategic Report.
In order to enhance the risk management 
process a Group Risk Committee was 
established in the financial year in order to 
assist the Management Board in providing 
strategic leadership, direction, reporting  
and oversight of the Group’s risk framework. 
The Committee is chaired by the Group 
Finance Director and membership includes 
representation across the global network  
and comprises both operational and finance 
functions. Meetings are held three times a 
year, with activities and recommendations 
reported to the Management Board. The Hays 
plc Board also has oversight of the 
Committee and its activities.
As a reflection of the success of Hays’ investor 
relations efforts, Hays was ranked No. 3 in the 
2015 Extel Survey for best investor relations 
by a listed company in the European Support 
& Business Services category, and also top 
three in the equivalent Institutional Investor 
Survey. In addition, Paul Venables and David 
Walker were also ranked in the top three  
of their respective categories of best Chief 
Financial Officer and best IR Professional  
in the 2015 Extel Survey, and David Walker, 
Hays’ Head of Investor Relations, was ranked 
No. 1 as best investor relations professional  
in the 2015 Institutional Investor Survey, as 
voted by sell-side research analysts.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Board uses the Company’s AGM to 
communicate with investors and welcomes 
their participation. All shareholders are 
entitled to attend the AGM, at which the 
Board members are present. The Board views 
the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with 
its smaller, private shareholders. A summary 
presentation of results is given by the Chief 
Executive before the formal business of the 
meeting is conducted. All shareholders 
present can question the Chairman, the 
Chairmen of the Committees and the rest  
of the Board both during the meeting and 
informally afterwards. 
The Notice of AGM and related papers are 
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days 
before the meeting. Voting on all resolutions 
at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, 
reflecting the number of voting rights 
exercisable by each member, is considered by 
the Board to be a more democratic method of 
voting. As soon as practicable following the 
conclusion of the AGM, the proxy votes cast, 
including details of votes withheld, are 
announced to the London Stock Exchange via 
the Regulatory News Service and published 
on our website.
The Board reviews the Group strategy  
and approves a budget for the organisation 
each year, to ensure that the performance  
of the business is in line with the plan and 
financial and operating reporting procedures 
are in place. Comprehensive annual budgets 
and forecasts are approved by the Management 
Board and business divisions. Monthly 
progress and variances are reported to  
the Management Board and subsequently  
to the Board at each meeting as part of the 
control process.
Complementing these financial controls is  
a set of Group-wide policies and procedures 
addressing non-quantifiable risks. These 
include the Group’s Code of Conduct and 
Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, 
and whistleblowing arrangements. The  
Board regularly receives management and 
Committee reports which also form part  
of the internal control system.
The Group’s internal control procedures are 
subject to regular review and provide an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing significant risks. This is in 
accordance with the Revised Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control. The Board 
recognises that such a system has its 
limitations in that risk management requires 
independent judgment on the part of 
directors and executive management. Internal 
controls are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
In accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
the Board, with the assistance of the Audit 
Committee, carried out an annual assessment 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control system 
during the reporting period. During the 
course of its review, the Board did not identify 
or hear of any failings or weaknesses that  
it determined to be significant. A confirmation 
of any necessary actions is therefore  
not provided.  52 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
The Nomination Committee has continued  
to support the Board during the year in 
ensuring its composition has the right balance 
of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge to best serve the business and 
fulfil the Board’s responsibility to shareholders 
in the ever-changing environment in which 
the Company operates.
With William Eccleshare having retired during 
the year and Richard Smelt retiring from  
the Board at the forthcoming AGM, the 
Nomination Committee has been working on 
the profile of individual or individuals required 
to be recruited to ensure the Board has the 
right skills and experience to fulfil the Board’s 
aim for Hays to be the world’s pre-eminent 
specialist recruitment business. 
The Zygos Partnership were appointed to 
facilitate the appointment of Peter Williams, 
and they remain engaged as our search  
for additional candidate(s) continues. 
Board appointments will continue to be  
made on merit, and the Committee 
recognises the benefits of diversity and 
provided we remain true to our key principles, 
we will aim to build on our existing diverse 
composition in the future.
Further non-executive appointments to the 
Board remain under consideration.
ALAN THOMSON
NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
27 August 2015
MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS
The Committee is appointed by the Board. It 
is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and 
comprises the non-executive directors, all of 
whom are independent, save for the Chairman 
who was independent on appointment. The 
names and qualifications of the Committee’s 
current members are set out in the directors’ 
biographies on pages 44 and 45. 
The Committee meets as required and did  
so twice during the year and all members 
were in attendance except Paul Harrison who 
could not attend one meeting due to prior 
commitments. Other regular attendees at 
Committee meetings include the Company 
Secretary and, on invitation, the Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director.
MAIN COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING  
THE FINANCIAL YEAR
• Considered Board succession plans
• Reviewed the composition of the Board 
and its Committees
• Reviewed the Committee’s terms  
of reference
• Considered the appointment of  
a further non-executive director
• Considered and recommended the 
election and re-election of each 
director, as appropriate, at the AGM
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The role of the Committee is summarised 
below and detailed in full in its terms of 
reference, a copy of which is available on 
the Company’s website (haysplc.com) 
under Corporate Governance. 
The main responsibilities of the Committee 
are to:
• Review the structure, size and 
composition (including skills, 
knowledge, experience, diversity  
and balance of executive and non-
executive directors) of the Board  
and its Committees and make 
recommendations to the Board  
with regard to any changes; 
• Consider succession planning for 
directors and other senior executives; 
• Identify and nominate for the approval 
of the Board, candidates to fill Board 
vacancies; and 
• Keep under review the time 
commitment expected from the 
Chairman and the non-executive 
directors.
“ In ensuring we fulfil our aim to be the  
world’s pre-eminent specialist recruitment 
business, the Nomination Committee adopts 
a rigorous and transparent approach to Board 
succession and director recruitment to ensure 
the best-placed individual with the right skills, 
knowledge and experience to enhance the 
performance of the business is appointed.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 53
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
APPOINTMENT PROCESS
The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment  
of new directors and senior executives with 
due regard to diversity. Prior to making an 
appointment, the Committee will evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity on the Board and, in light of this 
evaluation, will prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required, with a view to 
appointing the best-placed individual for the 
role. In identifying suitable candidates, the 
Committee uses open advertising or the 
services of external advisers to facilitate the 
search and considers candidates on merit and 
against objective criteria and ensuring that 
appointees have sufficient time to devote  
to the position, in light of other significant 
commitments, and no conflicts of interest.
A long-list of potential candidates would  
be drawn up, from which an appropriate 
number would be shortlisted for interview 
based upon their fulfilment of the appointment 
criteria. The Committee would then 
recommend to the Board the appointment  
of the preferred candidate (or candidates, if 
there is more than one considered suitable) 
for subsequent appointment.
During the year the Committee retained  
The Zygos Partnership in respect of Peter 
Williams’ appointment and they remain 
engaged as further non-executive director 
appointments are considered. The Zygos 
Partnership is an independent executive 
search consultancy and it has no other 
connection with the Company.
In the year ahead, the Committee will 
continue to assess the Board’s composition 
and how it may be enhanced and will  
consider diversity (gender and experience) 
and geographic representation and  
continue to use independent consultants  
as appropriate to ensure a broad search  
for suitable candidates.
SUCCESSION PLANNING
A key task of the Committee is to keep  
under review the Company’s succession  
plans for members of the Board over the 
short, medium and longer term, to ensure  
the Board remains appropriately balanced 
between new and innovative thinking and 
longer-term stability. The focus during the 
2015 financial year has been on identifying  
a suitable replacement for Richard Smelt, as 
well as planning for the succession of other 
Board members. 
Board appointment criteria are considered 
automatically as part of the Committee’s 
approach on succession planning. The 
Committee believes that limited tenure  
and the subsequent enforced retirement  
of directors is not always appropriate for 
sound business leadership. Accordingly, 
matters of director tenure are viewed on  
a case-by-case basis.
At present, the Board has not set any specific 
aspirations in respect of gender diversity 
though it believes that refreshment of the 
Board should take into account the need to 
consider diversity in all forms.
Committee member Meeting attendance FY15
Alan Thomson (Chairman) 2 of 2
William Eccleshare
(1)
2 of 2
Paul Harrison 1 of 2
Victoria Jarman 2 of 2
Torsten Kreindl 2 of 2
Richard Smelt 2 of 2
Pippa Wicks 2 of 2
Peter Williams
(2)
0 of 0
(1) William Eccleshare retired from the Board on 12 November 2014.
(2) Peter Williams was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015.
TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Appointments to the Board are made for 
initial terms not exceeding three years and are 
ordinarily limited to three such terms in office. 
DIRECTOR PERFORMANCE
Having reviewed the independence and 
contribution of directors, the Committee 
confirms that the performance of each  
of the directors standing for election or 
re-election at the 2015 AGM continues to  
be effective and demonstrates commitment 
to their roles, including independence of 
judgment, commitment of time for Board and 
Committee meetings and any other duties. 
Accordingly, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that, with  
the exception of Richard Smelt, all current 
directors of the Company be proposed  
for election or re-election, at the  
forthcoming AGM. 54 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present to you the Audit 
Committee report prepared in accordance 
with the 2012 edition of the Code. The 
Committee has considered the additional 
requirements of the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code introduced in September 
2014 and has ensured the necessary steps are 
under way in order that we can properly report 
to you against those next year and beyond. 
The Committee has continued to ensure  
the Company’s enterprise risk management 
framework remains fit for purpose. The 
Committee provides oversight of the risk 
process and continues to be satisfied that  
the Board maintains sound risk management 
and internal controls; the establishment of  
the Group Risk Committee is a welcome 
development in that regard. The Board has 
again been supported by the Committee in 
ensuring the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable. The Committee reviews 
the full and half year results with both 
management and the external auditor and 
reviews the work of Internal Audit and other 
assurance providers, thereby ensuring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial statements 
and the effectiveness of internal control. This 
in turn enables the Committee to provide 
shareholders with the necessary information 
for them to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy. 
In addition to discharging its financial 
reporting, internal control and risk 
management responsibilities, during the 
course of the year the Committee also 
considered, amongst other matters, audit 
effectiveness (both internal and external)  
and technological developments affecting 
the Group. Further detail on the Committee’s 
activities during the year under review is 
provided below.
VICTORIA JARMAN
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
27 August 2015
“ The Audit Committee has supported the  
Board in ensuring the Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and understandable; in ensuring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial statements 
and the effectiveness of internal control, 
shareholders are in turn able to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model  
and strategy.”
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available on the Company’s website 
(haysplc.com) under Corporate Governance.
The key responsibilities of the Committee 
are to: 
• Monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company, including 
annual and half year reports, interim 
management statements, and other 
formal announcements relating to its 
financial performance, and reviewing  
and reporting to the Board on significant 
financial reporting issues and judgments;
• Where requested by the Board, review 
the content of the Annual Report  
and advise the Board whether, taken  
as a whole, it is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy;
• Recommend to the Board for approval  
by shareholders, the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of the  
external Auditor;
• Monitor the relationship with the 
Company’s external Auditor, including 
consideration of fees, audit scope and 
terms of engagement;
• Review the effectiveness and objectivity 
of the external audit and the Auditor’s 
independence;
• On engagement of the external Auditor, 
review the policy for the provision of 
non-audit services and monitor 
compliance;
• Monitor and review the Company’s 
internal control and risk management 
systems;
• Monitor and review the effectiveness of 
the Company’s Internal Audit function; 
and
• Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, 
ethical and other issues, including  
that the Company maintains suitable 
arrangements for employees to raise 
concerns in confidence. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 55
MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 
The Committee is appointed by the Board 
from its independent non-executive directors. 
Biographies of the Committee’s current 
members are set out on pages 44 and 45. 
The Chairman of the Committee and its 
financial expert, Victoria Jarman, is a 
Chartered Accountant, who also chairs the 
Audit Committee of De La Rue plc and of 
Equiniti Group Limited. All Committee 
members are financially literate. 
The Committee discharges its responsibilities 
through a series of scheduled meetings 
during the year, the agenda of which is linked 
to events in the financial calendar of the 
Company. The Committee met four times 
during the financial year and all members 
were in attendance at all meetings during 
their tenure. 
The Committee commissions reports, either 
from external advisers, the Head of Internal 
Audit, or Group management, as required,  
to enable it to discharge its duties. The Group 
Finance Director and the Group Financial 
Controller attend its meetings, as do the 
external Auditor and the Head of Internal 
Audit, both of whom have the opportunity to 
meet privately with the Committee Chairman, 
in the absence of Group management.  
The Chairman of the Board and the Chief 
Executive are also invited to, and regularly 
attend, Committee meetings.
MAIN COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING  
THE FINANCIAL YEAR
• Approved the annual Committee 
programme
• Reviewed financial results for 
publication
• Considered the external audit plan  
and reviewed the results of the audit
• Approved the Internal Audit plan  
and reviewed its findings
• Reviewed the new requirements 
relating to external auditor appointments 
and audit partner rotation
• Reviewed the non-audit services 
provided by the external Auditor
• Reviewed the risk management and 
controls framework and its effectiveness, 
together with the Group’s principal risks
• Reviewed the performance and 
effectiveness of the external Auditor 
and considered its reappointment
• Reviewed the performance and 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function
• Reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing 
arrangements
• Carried out a review of the Committee’s 
effectiveness and reviewed progress  
on matters arising from previous 
assessments
• Considered the Code requirements 
concerning fair, balanced and 
understandable reporting
• Recommended the Audit Committee 
Report for approval by the Board
• Reviewed senior finance personnel 
across the Group
• Held discussions with the external 
Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit 
without management being present
ANNUAL REPORT REVIEW 
In addition to its work described here, the 
Committee has reviewed the financial and 
narrative disclosures in this year’s Annual 
Report. It has advised the Board that, in its 
view, taken as a whole, the Annual Report  
is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
In making its recommendation to the Board 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole,  
is fair, balanced and understandable, the 
Committee enhanced its existing robust 
governance arrangements, which include:
• Comprehensive Group and subsidiary 
accounts process, with written 
confirmations provided by the regional 
senior management teams on the health  
of the financial control environment; 
• Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken 
at different levels of the Group and by the 
senior management team that aim to 
ensure consistency and overall balance;
• External audit review;
• Clear guidance and instruction of the 
requirement provided to contributors;
• Written confirmation that information 
provided has been done so on a fair  
and balanced basis;
• Additional scrutiny by senior  
management; and
• Additional reviews by the Committee 
Chairman of the draft Annual Report in 
advance of the final sign-off in the context 
of the revised Code provision.
Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on the 
recommendation of the Committee. 
Committee member Meeting attendance FY15
Victoria Jarman (Chairman) 4 of 4
William Eccleshare
(1)
2 of 2
Paul Harrison 4 of 4
Torsten Kreindl 4 of 4
Richard Smelt 4 of 4
Pippa Wicks 4 of 4
Peter Williams
(2)
1 of 1
(1) William Eccleshare retired from the Board on 12 November 2014.
(2) Peter Williams was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2015. 56 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED 
DURING THE YEAR 
In reviewing both the half and full year 
financial statements, the following issues  
of significance were considered by the 
Committee and addressed as described. 
These matters are described in more  
detail in note 3 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
DEBTOR AND ACCRUED INCOME 
RECOVERABILITY 
The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued 
income and the level of provisions for bad 
debt are considered to be areas of significant 
judgment due to the pervasive nature of 
these balances to the financial statements 
and the importance of cash collection in the 
working capital management of the business. 
The Committee considered the level and 
ageing of debtors and accrued income, 
together with the appropriateness of 
provisioning, by reviewing previous experience 
of bad debt exposure and the consistency  
of judgments made year-on-year. The 
Committee was satisfied that the level of 
provision and the carrying value of debtors 
and accrued income is appropriate. 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The main areas of judgment in revenue 
recognition relate to (i) cut-off as we 
recognise permanent placement income  
on the day a candidate starts work, and 
temporary placement income over the 
duration of the placement; and (ii) the 
recognition of temporary contractual 
arrangements where we act as principal  
on a gross basis rather than net basis. The 
Committee discussed and reviewed these 
areas with both management and the Auditor 
and remains satisfied that Group accounting 
policies with regard to revenue recognition 
have been adhered to and that judgments 
made remain appropriate. 
GOODWILL 
The Committee assessed the carrying  
value of goodwill by reviewing a report  
by management which set out the values 
attributable to each cash-generating unit, 
compiled using projected cash flows based 
on assumptions related to discount rates and 
future growth rates. The Committee also 
considered the work undertaken by Deloitte 
in testing the projections and performing 
sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions. 
After discussion, the Committee was satisfied 
that the assumptions used were appropriate.
PENSION ACCOUNTING
Pension accounting is complex and contains 
areas of significant judgment, most notably 
those in respect of the discount and inflation 
rates used in the valuation of the net deficit 
disclosed in note 21. The Committee  
reviewed the pension items, including those 
relating to the adoption of IAS 19 Employee 
Benefits (Revised), by discussing a report 
prepared by management based on work 
performed by the Company’s actuary  
which set the key assumptions used in  
the calculation of the deficit and related 
income statement items. The Committee  
also considered the work performed by 
Deloitte’s specialist pension team in testing 
the assumptions and was satisfied that the 
assumptions used and the disclosures in  
the financial statements are appropriate.
ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING
The main areas of judgment following the 
acquisition of 80% of the shareholding of 
Veredus Corp. are the assessment of whether 
or not Hays acquired control of Veredus, 
considering the specific requirements of  
IFRS 10 including the application of the 
substance principle; the fair value of deferred 
consideration consequently recognised; and 
the assessment of the fair value of the assets 
acquired. The Committee reviewed and 
discussed a detailed report prepared by 
management setting out the basis for  
the key assumptions adopted, and also 
considered the work performed by Deloitte 
which included reviewing the terms of the 
acquisition agreement, and the findings  
from the local US audit. The Committee  
is satisfied that the acquisition has been 
appropriately accounted for and that the 
judgments made are appropriate.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Both the Committee and the Board keep  
the external Auditor’s independence and 
objectivity under close scrutiny, particularly  
in regard to its reporting to shareholders. 
Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor  
of the Group since listing in October 1989. 
Professional rules require that the Company’s 
audit partner at Deloitte be rotated every  
five years; the current lead partner, Stephen 
Griggs, was appointed following the 2011  
year-end results.
As noted previously, the Committee resolved 
to undertake a full tender of the Company’s 
external audit contract following the 2016 
year-end results, when the tenure of the 
current audit partner at Deloitte comes to an 
end. The Committee has further reviewed this 
position following the publication of the new 
EU regulations and decided that a tender 
process will commence in early 2016.  
Any recommendation for the appointment  
of the external Auditor will continue to be  
the subject of rigorous review each year.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND  
NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY
The Committee believes that the issue of 
non-audit services to Hays is closely related  
to external Auditor independence and 
objectivity. The Committee recognises  
that the independence of the external  
Auditor may reasonably be expected to  
be compromised if they also act as the 
Company’s consultants and advisers. Having 
said that, the Committee accepts that certain 
work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken 
by the external Auditor. To keep a check on 
this, the Committee has adopted a policy to 
ensure that the provision of any non-audit 
services by Deloitte does not impair its 
independence or objectivity.
The key features of the non-audit services 
policy are as follows:
• The provision of non-audit services 
provided by the Company’s external 
Auditor be limited to a value of one times 
the prior year’s audit fee;
• Any non-audit project work which could 
impair the objectivity or independence of 
the external Auditor may not be awarded 
to the external Auditor; and
• Delegated authority by the Committee for 
the approval of non-audit services by the 
external Auditor is as follows:
Authoriser
Value of services per
 non-audit project
Group Financial 
Controller Up to £25,000
Group Finance Director Up to £150,000
Audit Committee Above £150,000
Deloitte’s fee in respect of its 2014  
financial year audit of Hays was £0.9 million. 
Accordingly, the maximum value of non-audit 
services that Deloitte could have been 
engaged by Hays to provide during the 
financial year 2015 was £0.9 million. The total 
audit fee for non-audit services provided by 
Deloitte during the 2015 financial year was 
£0.4 million (2014: £0.3 million). The main 
components of the £0.4 million non-audit 
services were as follows: STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 57
• Half year review: £0.1 million; 
• Taxation compliance: £0.1 million; and
• Tax advice and other services: £0.2 million.
No single non-audit project undertaken  
by Deloitte during the 2015 financial year 
exceeded £170,000. The Company did not 
pay any non-audit fees to Deloitte on a 
contingent basis. A summary of the fees paid 
to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Having reviewed Hays’ non-audit services 
policy this year, the Committee is satisfied 
that adequate procedures are in place to 
safeguard the external Auditor’s objectivity 
and independence.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL 
AUDITOR
The annual effectiveness review was 
conducted under the guidance of the 
Committee Chairman, on behalf of the 
Committee, and covered amongst other 
things a review of the audit partners, audit 
resource, planning and execution, Committee 
support and communications, and Deloitte’s 
independence and objectivity. Overall 
feedback was positive with resulting 
improvements, which were largely country-
specific, discussed and implemented. On  
the basis of this review, the Committee was 
satisfied with the performance of Deloitte in 
the fulfilment of its obligations as external 
Auditor and of the effectiveness of the audit 
process. Accordingly, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that Deloitte be 
reappointed as external Auditor to the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control system and risk management 
framework, which in order to fulfil its 
responsibilities the Board has delegated 
authority to the Committee. 
In order to establish an assessment from  
both a financial and operational control 
perspective, the Committee looks to  
the work of the Internal Audit function, 
specifically to consider whether significant 
process and control weaknesses are 
identified, improved and monitored  
and that risks have been identified,  
evaluated and managed. 
The Committee considered the Group’s risk 
assessment process, which included coverage 
across the regions, businesses and functions 
within the Group, reviewing the effectiveness 
of the risk methodology employed, the risk 
mitigation measures implemented and future 
risk management and monitoring. 
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee oversees and monitors the 
work of the Internal Audit function, which 
reviews key controls and processes 
throughout the Group on a rolling basis, 
including resources, scope and effectiveness 
of the function. 
The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct 
access to the Committee, and meets regularly 
with both the Committee and its Chairman 
without the presence of management to 
consider the work of Internal Audit. 
The Committee approved the programme of 
work for the Internal Audit function in respect 
of the 2015 financial year, which was focused 
on addressing both financial and overall risk 
management objectives across the Group. 
During the year, 35 internal audit reviews 
were undertaken, with the findings reported 
to both the Management Board and the 
Committee, with recommendations tracked 
and progress subsequently reported back  
to the Committee. 
No significant weaknesses were identified  
as a result of risk management and internal 
control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit 
during the reporting period.
The Committee believes that the Group’s 
enterprise risk management framework 
needs to continue to evolve in accordance 
with the growth of the Hays’ business around 
the world. Throughout the financial year the 
Internal Audit team has continued to enhance 
the enterprise risk management framework 
and work with the operating companies 
across the globe to further develop and 
embed the framework methodology at  
a local level. The formation of a Group Risk 
Committee chaired by the Group Finance 
Director and comprising senior operators 
from each region will assist in the strategic 
management of risk in the Group.
RAISING CONCERNS AT WORK
The whistleblowing procedure in place across 
the Group ensures that employees are able  
to raise any concerns about any possible 
improprieties in business practices, or other 
matters, in confidence; this is managed and 
reported through an external third party. 
The disclosures under this arrangement  
are investigated promptly by Internal Audit 
and escalated to the Management Board  
and the Committee as appropriate, with 
follow-up action being taken as soon as 
practicable thereafter. 
The Committee, as part of its overall review  
of the Group’s system of internal control, 
reviewed the procedures in place during the 
reporting period and is satisfied that they are 
appropriate to the size and scale of the Group. 
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to 
bribery and corruption. The Group Anti-
Bribery and Corruption Policy (with specific 
reference to the UK Bribery Act 2010) is 
issued to all employees. Overall responsibility 
for, and oversight of, the Policy lies with  
the plc Board. Training is provided to all 
employees annually in local languages and 
ongoing support is provided when and where 
necessary. In addition, risk assessments are 
carried out on an ad hoc basis, for example 
when new countries are under consideration 
(whether they are considered to be low or 
high risk) or prior to entry into new public 
sector markets. The Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Policy during the year 
and concluded that it was sufficient for 
managing the anti-bribery and corruption 
risks faced by the Group. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
The Committee considered its effectiveness 
in discharging its duties during the year. The 
Committee looked at the work it had carried 
out during the year and considered that its 
performance during the year was effective 
when measured against its terms of reference 
and general audit committee best practice. 
Details of the main activities of the Committee 
and its role and responsibilities have been 
detailed earlier in this Report. 
The Chairman of the Committee will be 
available at this year’s AGM to answer any 
questions on the work of the Committee.
  58 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered 
as a public limited company in England and 
Wales. Its headquarters are in London and it 
is listed on the main market of the London 
Stock Exchange.
STRATEGIC REPORT 
A description of the Company’s business 
model and strategy is set out in the Strategic 
Report along with the factors likely to affect 
the Group’s future development, performance 
and position. An overview of the principal 
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group  
are also provided in the Strategic Report.
The Statement of Compliance with the Code 
for the reporting period is contained in the 
Corporate Governance Statement.
Information on environmental, employee, 
social and community matters, including 
information on gender diversity within the 
Group, is detailed in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report.
Information relating to matters addressed  
by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees, which operate within clearly 
defined terms of reference, are set out within 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee Reports.
All of the matters above are incorporated by 
reference into this Directors’ Report.
The purpose of this Report is to provide 
information to the members of the Company, 
as a body. The Company, its directors, 
employees, agents or advisers do not accept 
or assume responsibility to any other person 
to whom this document is shown or into 
whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. This Report contains certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to 
the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results 
and developments to differ from those 
anticipated. The forward-looking statements 
reflect knowledge and information available 
at the date of preparation of this Report. 
Nothing in this Report should be construed  
as a profit forecast.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Details of the related party transactions 
undertaken during the reporting period are 
contained in note 30 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There have been no significant events to 
report since the date of the balance sheet.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 0.87 pence (2014:  
0.83 pence) per Ordinary share was paid  
to shareholders on 8 April 2015. The Board 
recommends the payment of a final dividend 
of 1.89 pence (2014: 1.80 pence) per Ordinary 
share, representing a total dividend of 2.76 
pence (2014: 2.63 pence) for the financial  
year ended 30 June 2015. Subject to the 
shareholders of the Company approving this 
recommendation at the 2015 AGM, the final 
dividend will be paid on 13 November 2015 to 
those shareholders appearing on the register 
of members as at 9 October 2015. The 
ex-dividend date is 8 October 2015.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of the financial instruments used  
by the Group are set out in notes 18 to 19  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
A general outline of Hays’ use of financial 
instruments is set out in the treasury 
management section on page 33 of the 
Financial Review of this Report. 
DIRECTORS
Biographies of the serving directors of  
Hays are provided on pages 44 and 45 of  
this Report. They all served on the Board 
throughout the 2015 financial year, with the 
exception of Peter Williams, who joined the 
Board on 24 February 2015. In addition, 
William Eccleshare served on the Board 
during the year until his retirement on  
12 November 2014.
GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS
The powers of the directors are contained  
in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
These powers may be exercised by any 
meeting of the Board at which a quorum of 
three directors is present. The power of the 
Board to manage the business is subject to 
any limitations imposed by the Companies 
Act 2006, the Articles of Association 
(Articles) or any directions given by special 
resolution of the shareholders applicable  
at a relevant time.
The Articles contain an express authority for 
the appointment of executive directors and 
provide the directors with the authority to 
delegate or confer upon such directors any  
of the powers exercisable by them upon  
such terms and conditions and with such 
restrictions as they see fit. The Articles 
contain additional authorities to delegate 
powers and discretions to committees and 
subcommittees.
DIRECTORS’ POWERS TO ALLOT AND  
BUY BACK SHARES
The directors have the power to authorise the 
issue and buy-back of the Company’s shares 
by the Company, subject to authority being 
given to the directors by the shareholders in 
general meeting, applicable legislation and 
the Articles.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT  
OF DIRECTORS
Shareholders may appoint any person who  
is willing to act as a director by ordinary 
resolution and may remove any director by 
ordinary resolution. The Board may appoint 
any person to fill any vacancy or as an 
additional director, provided that they are 
submitted for election by the shareholders at 
the AGM following their appointment. Specific 
conditions apply to the vacation of office, 
including cases where a director becomes 
prohibited by law or regulation from holding 
office, or is persistently absent from directors’ 
meetings, or if three-quarters of appointed 
directors request his or her resignation or in 
the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
Details of the interests of Hays’ directors  
and their connected persons in the ordinary 
shares of the Company are outlined in the 
Remuneration Report.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Company continues to maintain 
third-party directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance for the benefit of its directors.  
This provides insurance cover for any claim 
brought against directors or officers for 
wrongful acts in connection with their 
positions. The directors have also been 
granted qualifying third-party indemnities,  
as permitted under the Companies Act 2006, 
which remain in force. Neither the insurance 
nor the indemnities extend to claims arising 
from fraud or dishonesty and do not provide 
cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties 
provided by law. 
SHARE CAPITAL
Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which 
carry no right to fixed income or control over 
the Company. These shares may be held in 
certificated or uncertificated form. On 30 
June 2015, the Company had 1,464,096,566 
fully paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which 
43,062,351 Ordinary shares were held in 
treasury by the Company.
The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s Ordinary shares are contained  
in the Articles. In brief, the Ordinary shares 
allow holders to receive dividends and to 
exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share 
for every holder present in person or by proxy 
at general meetings of the Company. They 
also have the right to a return of capital on  
the winding up of the Company. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 59
There are no restrictions on the size of  
holding or the transfer of shares, which are 
both governed by the general provisions of 
the Company’s Articles and legislation. Under 
the Articles, the directors have the power to 
suspend voting rights and the right to receive 
dividends in respect of Ordinary shares and to 
refuse to register a transfer of Ordinary shares 
in circumstances where the holder of those 
shares fails to comply with a notice issued 
under Section 793 of the Companies Act 
2006. The directors also have the power to 
refuse to register any transfer of certificated 
shares that does not satisfy the conditions set 
out in the Articles.
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that might result in  
the restriction of transfer of voting rights in 
relation to the shares held by such shareholders. 
TREASURY SHARES
As Hays has only one class of share in issue,  
it may hold a maximum of 10% of its issued 
share capital in treasury. As at 30 June 2015, 
2.94% of the Company’s shares were held in 
treasury. Legislation restricts the exercise of 
rights on Ordinary shares held in treasury. The 
Company is not allowed to exercise voting 
rights conferred by the shares whilst they are 
held in treasury. It is prohibited from paying 
any dividend or making any distribution of 
assets on treasury shares. Once in treasury, 
shares can only be sold for cash, transferred 
to an employee share scheme or cancelled. 
During the 2015 financial year, Hays transferred 
14,806,893 shares out of treasury to satisfy 
the award of shares under the Company’s 
employee share schemes.
SHARES HELD BY THE EMPLOYEE  
BENEFIT TRUST
The Hays plc Employee Share Trust (the 
Trust) is an employee benefit trust which  
is permitted to hold Ordinary shares in the 
Company for employee share schemes 
purposes. No shares were held by the Trust as 
at the year end; further details can be found in 
note 28 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements on page 106. Shares held in the 
Trust may be transferred to participants of 
the various Group share schemes. No voting 
rights are exercisable in relation to shares 
unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
DILUTION LIMITS IN RESPECT OF  
SHARE SCHEMES
The current Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) guidance on dilution limits provide  
that the overall dilution under all share plans 
operated by a company should not exceed 
10% over a 10-year period in relation to the 
Company’s share capital, with a further 
limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on 
executive plans. The Company’s share plans 
operate within ABI recommended guidelines 
on dilution limits.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 
As at 30 June 2015, the following shareholders 
held an interest of 3% or more of the Company’s 
issued share capital:
% of total
voting rights
BlackRock Inc 10.9%
Virtus Trust Limited 7.4%
Baillie Gifford & Co 6.6%
Cedar Rock Capital Limited 6.5%
Columbia Threadneedle 4.5%
Marathon Asset Management 4.2%
Heronbridge Investment 
Management LLP 3.4%
No changes to the above have been disclosed to the 
Company as at 3 September 2015.
EMPLOYEES
Our goal is for our people to reach their  
full potential and to give of their best as 
individuals and in teams. In this context, we 
are committed to never discriminating on  
the grounds of race, colour, creed, disability, 
religion, ethnic origin, gender, sexual 
orientation or age. All Hays employees are 
required to abide by these principles which 
are set out in the Group’s Equal Opportunities 
Policy and Code of Conduct. 
Hays gives full consideration to applications 
for employment from disabled persons where 
they have the right skills and abilities for the 
role. Should an employee become disabled 
whilst working for the Group, Hays would 
make every effort to accommodate them, to 
assist them in any re-training or to find suitable 
alternative employment within the Group.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Ongoing communication forms the basis of 
the partnership between Hays’ leadership  
and workforce. Employees receive business 
performance updates from Alistair Cox, the 
Chief Executive, and from their respective 
regional Managing Directors, by email on a 
four-weekly basis. These are posted on the 
Group’s intranet, which acts as a source of 
reference for the Group’s brand, values, 
policies and procedures. Regular presentations 
are also made to employees by the Chief 
Executive and regional Managing Directors 
during office visits made over the course  
of the year.
Hays continues to provide tailored training  
to the people who are in the front line of 
delivering recruitment solutions as well as  
in management and leadership roles. These 
programmes take a number of different 
guises across the Group’s regional businesses 
but all share the common goal of improving 
the service we provide to clients. 
To ensure that employees remain engaged  
in our business, an annual employee 
engagement survey, known as TALKback, is 
carried out each year. This allows employees 
to voice their views and opinions on all 
aspects of their workplace environment, 
training and development, work culture, 
leadership and client relations. The results, 
which indicate employee engagement levels 
and highlight any areas of concern, are 
presented to the Management Board and  
to the Board.
Hays believes in the value of loyalty and 
considers its employee incentive programme 
of commission schemes, performance-related 
cash bonuses and share schemes to be 
important factors in keeping its employees 
motivated. The employee share schemes 
have been running successfully since 
inception and provide many employees  
with an additional stake in the business.
GOING CONCERN
The Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Strategic Report. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows and 
liquidity position are described in the 
Financial Review, with details of the Group’s 
treasury activities, long-term funding 
arrangements and exposure to financial  
risk included in notes 18 and 19 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group has sufficient financial resources 
which, together with internally generated 
cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient 
sources of liquidity to fund its current 
operations, including its contractual and 
commercial commitments and any proposed 
dividends. The Group is therefore well placed 
to manage its business risks.
After making enquiries, the directors have 
formed the judgment at the time of approving 
the financial statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing  
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s Articles may only be amended 
by special resolution of the shareholders. 60 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION  
TO THE AUDITOR 
So far as the directors who held office at  
the date of approval of this Report are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which 
the external Auditor is unaware and each 
director has taken all steps that he or she 
ought to have taken as a director to make 
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the external 
Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation should be interpreted in 
accordance with Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
On the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee and having considered all matters 
brought to the attention of the Board during 
the financial year, the Board is satisfied that 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Board believes that the 
disclosures set out in the Annual Report 
provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s AGM will be held at 12 noon 
on 11 November 2015 at the offices of UBS, 
100 Liverpool Street, London EC2M 2RH.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM and gives  
details of the voting record date and proxy 
appointment deadline for that Meeting. The 
Notice of Meeting is contained in a separate 
circular to shareholders which is being mailed 
or otherwise provided to shareholders at the 
same time as this Report.
AUDITOR
Resolutions 12 and 13 at the forthcoming AGM 
will respectively propose the reappointment 
of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company 
and authorise the directors to determine its 
remuneration. These resolutions will be 
proposed as ordinary resolutions and shall 
have effect until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting of the Company at which 
accounts are laid.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company made no political donations 
during the year and intends to maintain its 
policy of not making such payments. It will 
however as a precautionary measure to  
avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek 
shareholder authority at the 2015 AGM to 
make limited donations or incur limited 
political expenditure, although it has no 
intention of using the authority.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary 
resolution to seek authority to make political 
donations, and if passed, such authority shall 
expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders authorised  
the directors, subject to the Companies  
Act 2006, to allot Ordinary shares or grant 
rights to subscribe for or grant rights to 
subscribe for or convert any securities  
into shares without the prior consent of 
shareholders. This authority expires at the 
conclusion of the 2015 AGM. Accordingly, 
Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary 
resolution to renew this authority for a period 
expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM. 
The directors have no present intention of 
exercising this authority. 
DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION 
RIGHTS
Also at last year’s meeting, a special 
resolution was passed under the Companies 
Act 2006 empowering the directors to  
allot equity securities for cash without first 
being required to offer such shares to existing 
shareholders. Resolution 16 will seek to renew 
this authority. If approved, the resolution  
will authorise directors in accordance with  
the Articles to issue shares in connection  
with a rights issue and otherwise to issue 
shares for cash up to a specified maximum 
nominal amount which includes the sale  
on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares  
held in treasury. 
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special 
resolution to renew this authority for a period 
expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES
A special resolution was also passed at  
last year’s meeting enabling the Company  
to purchase its own shares in the market. 
Resolution 17 will seek to renew this authority. 
The directors intend only to exercise this 
authority if to do so would, in their opinion, 
enhance shareholder value. The Company  
will have the option of holding, as treasury 
shares, any of its own shares that it purchases 
pursuant to the authority conferred  
by this resolution. This would give the 
Company the ability to sell treasury shares, 
providing the Company with flexibility in the 
management of its employee shares schemes. 
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst 
held in treasury and no voting rights will 
attach to the treasury shares. 
The price paid for Ordinary shares will not  
be less than the nominal value of 1 pence per 
share and not more than the higher of 5% 
above the average of the middle market 
quotations of the Company’s Ordinary shares 
as derived from the London Stock Exchange.
Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special 
resolution to renew this authority for a period 
expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS
The notice period required by the Companies 
Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company 
is 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve  
a shorter notice period, which cannot 
however be less than 14 clear days. 
At last year’s AGM, shareholders authorised 
the calling of general meetings other than an 
AGM on not less than 14 clear days’ notice and 
Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special 
resolution and seeks to renew this authority. 
The authority granted by this resolution,  
if passed, will be for a period expiring at  
the conclusion of the 2016 AGM. 
The flexibility offered by this resolution  
will be used where, taking into account the 
circumstances, the directors consider this 
appropriate in relation to the business to be 
considered at the meeting and in the interests 
of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
RECOMMENDATION
The directors consider that all the resolutions 
to be put to the meeting are in the best 
interests of the Company and its shareholders 
as a whole. Your Board will be voting in favour 
of them and unanimously recommends that 
you do so as well.
By order of the Board
DOUG EVANS
COMPANY SECRETARY
27 August 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 61
REMUNERATION REPORT
I am pleased to introduce our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for 2015. 
OUR BUSINESS CONTINUES TO GROW  
AND PROSPER
2015 has been another strong year for  
Hays. With our markets broadly supportive, 
management invested to drive good  
growth of 9%
(1)
 in net fees and, through 
effective operational management, delivered 
excellent operating profit leverage, with 
profits up 25%
(1)
 with strong cash conversion. 
This performance was industry leading. Such 
strong results, allied to a clear outperformance 
in Hays’ share price over the last three years 
relative to its competitors, has directly 
contributed towards the reward outcomes  
for the executive directors both in the annual 
and the long-term incentive schemes, as will 
be covered below. 
OUR EXECUTIVE REWARD FOR 2015 
REFLECTS THESE STRONG RESULTS 
• Annual Bonus Awards reflected the 2015 
performance and were 98.0% of the 
maximum award (122.50% of salary) for  
the CEO and 97.0% of the maximum award 
(121.25% of salary) for the CFO. (Maximum 
opportunity was 125% of salary.) 40% of 
each award was deferred into shares for 
three years
• The 2012 PSP vested at 100% of the award 
(175% of salary) reflecting its three year 
performance period that ended on  
30 June 2015 
• The executive directors received base 
salary increases of 2.0% effective from  
1 July 2015. This was in line with the average 
pay increase for other UK employees
• Executive directors will receive an FY16 
PSP grant of 175% of salary which will vest 
in 2018 dependent on performance criteria 
being met
No discretion was exercised.
• Our Chairman’s fee was also increased by 
2.0% and the Board reviewed the fees for 
other non-executive directors (NEDs) and 
made some adjustments 
Full details of the executive directors’ 
remuneration for 2015 can be found in the 
single figure on page 66 and the full Annual 
Report on Remuneration on pages 66 to 77.
Details of the Chairman’s and NEDs’ fees can 
be found on page 74.
OUR REMUNERATION POLICY RECEIVED  
A POSITIVE VOTE AND NO CHANGES  
ARE PROPOSED 
At last year’s AGM, our Remuneration  
Policy received a binding vote of 92.6%, 
demonstrating the strong support for  
our executive directors’ reward structure  
and approach. 
We are grateful for the time and effort 
provided by the Company’s shareholders to 
engage with us in formulating this Policy as it 
is fundamental to our remuneration approach 
to have an active and engaged dialogue with 
our shareholders. 
We remain committed to the Policy 
framework that was agreed and, therefore, 
there are no proposed changes to our 
remuneration policy this year that require 
further shareholder approval. However, 
during the year we have continued to monitor 
“ Our professional reputation and integrity is 
vital for our candidates, clients, shareholders 
and business. We extend these values in our 
approach to reward and we are pleased to 
have received a strong favourable vote for our 
Remuneration Policy at last year’s AGM. While 
we encourage the link of high performance to 
reward, this year we have introduced clawback 
to our incentive plans in recognition of the 
importance sound risk management plays  
in driving long-term shareholder value.”
CONTENTS
63 At a Glance – Key features of 2015 
64  Remuneration Policy Summary 
– showing key reward features, link to 
strategy, link to risk management and 
what we have done in 2015
66  Annual Report on Remuneration 
– including the single figure of 
remuneration (audited)
(1)  Like for like growth represents organic growth  
of continuing operations at constant currency. 62 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
and discuss the ongoing debate around risk 
mitigation and the link of risk management  
to reward. The Committee has also reviewed 
and debated the new guidance on clawback. 
This has helped us to make appropriate 
‘fine-tuning’ to our Policy administration.
WE HAVE SELECTED THE RIGHT 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
When establishing the annual Group budget, 
the Board seeks to ensure that achievable, yet 
stretching, targets are appropriately balanced 
with risk. 
The performance metrics used in our Annual 
Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) were chosen as they reflect the 
executives’ ability to manage day-to-day 
operational efficiency and long-term  
business sustainability.
WE HAVE INTRODUCED CLAWBACK 
PROVISIONS TO OUR INCENTIVE PLANS 
FURTHER LINKING RISK MANAGEMENT 
AND REWARD
In addition, and in line with the revised UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued in 
September 2014, the Committee has taken 
the decision to include clawback provisions  
in its Annual Bonus Plan and the PSP. 
These provisions will apply to the PSP grant 
made in 2015 and any bonus award made in 
2016 in relation to performance in the 2016 
financial year. Our incentive plans already 
incorporate malus provisions, but the trigger 
events have been adjusted to align with those 
of the new clawback provision.
The Committee debated the length of time 
during which clawback would apply. In 
introducing clawback and adjusting the  
malus provisions, the Committee took into 
consideration the short-term and cyclical 
nature of our business and therefore  
decided that:
• For the annual bonus plan, clawback will 
apply for three years from the date of 
award for the cash element and malus 
applies on the deferred element during  
the three-year deferral period; and 
• For the PSP, malus applies during the 
three-year performance period and 
clawback will apply for two years post 
vesting.
The trigger events for both clawback and 
malus have been aligned and are:
• Material misstatement of accounts 
(previously the only trigger for malus);
• Computation errors in the award 
calculation;
• Computation errors in the calculation  
of the performance conditions; and
• Gross misconduct.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO BEHAVING  
IN A RESPONSIBLE WAY
Hays’ expertise enables us to match the skills 
of our candidates to our client needs and a 
successful placement helps to mitigate risk  
at a high level. The incorporation of clawback 
reinforces the Committee’s commitment  
to managing risk and complements the 
Company’s culture of ensuring we behave in a 
responsible and appropriate way towards our 
candidates, clients, shareholders and other 
stakeholder groups.
In addition, during 2015, we formed a new 
Group Risk Committee, details of which can 
be found on page 51 of this Annual Report. 
We will be working closely with the Group 
Risk Committee to ensure that our current 
framework of linking risk management and 
reward remains robust and appropriate.
More information on our approach to risk  
can be found on pages 57 of the Annual 
Report and its link to reward on pages  
64 to 65 of this Report.
WE AIM TO BE CLEAR AND CONCISE  
IN OUR REPORTING
We aim to make the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report clear, concise and easy to follow.  
As there is no change this year to our formal 
approved Remuneration Policy, we have 
chosen to put this on our website. It can be 
found at haysplc.com. This complements our 
approach to becoming more digital.
We have included a Policy Summary in this 
report which highlights the key features of 
our reward components. It demonstrates how 
they link to our strategy, how they take into 
account our principal areas of risk, and gives 
details of how the Policy has been 
implemented in 2015.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO OPEN AND 
CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE WITH OUR 
SHAREHOLDERS
The Committee is mindful of the continuing 
debate among the investor community and 
wider public audience around executive  
pay. As such, we welcome feedback from 
shareholders and representative bodies and, 
in turn, the Committee will continue to consult 
with shareholders when appropriate. 
In addition, the Committee takes very 
seriously its duty to exercise judgment  
and ensure outcomes are reflective of the 
Company’s underlying performance and 
shareholder experience. 
We trust that you will find this report clear 
and helpful, that it demonstrates how we 
balance performance, reward and underlying 
associated behaviours, and that we place 
great importance on our duty to shareholders.
PAUL HARRISON
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
27 August 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 63
AT A GLANCE
WHAT DID WE DO?
Reward 
component What we have done
Base salary Increased salaries for Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director by 2.0% from 1 July 2015.
New salaries: 
Chief Executive: £709,294
Group Finance Director: £511,400
Increase in line with budget set for UK 
employees of 2.0%
Bonus Chief Executive: 98% of maximum i.e. 122.5%  
of salary equating to a bonus of £851,848
Group Finance Director: 97% of maximum  
i.e. 121.25% of salary equating to a bonus of £607 ,915
40% of the above awards are deferred into 
shares for three years
PSP 175% of salary awarded
Shareholdings 
at 30 June 
2015
Chief Executive: 607% of base salary 
(requirement = 200%)
Group Finance Director: 311% of base salary 
(requirement = 100%)
The Single Figure can be found on page 64
 See p64 for more details
OUR REMUNERATION POLICY  
AND STRUCTURE
Key reward component Key features
Base salary and core 
benefits
Competitive salary and benefits to 
attract right calibre of executive
Annual Bonus
• 60% EPS
• 20% Cash conversion
• 20% Personal
Max. potential 125% of salary
Key financial KPIs and personal 
objectives
Performance Share Plan
• 1/3 EPS
• 1/3 Cash conversion
• 1/3 TSR
Max. potential 175% of salary
KPIs focused on shareholder returns 
and long-term sustainability
Shareholding 
requirements
Chief Executive – 200% of salary
Group Finance Director – 100%  
of salary
Ensure material personal stake  
in the business
• Strong link of reward to performance
• Take into account risk management and our incentive plans 
incorporate malus and, new for FY16, clawback.
 See p64 for more details
HOW HAVE WE PERFORMED?
Bonus Metrics measure success of the day-to-day management 
of a volatile and cyclical business
Metric Target Actual % achieved
EPS 7.02p 7.74p* 100%
Cash conversion 86% 108.5% 100%
Personal – Chief Executive – 90% 90%
Personal – Group Finance 
Director – 85% 85%
*  Both the target and actual performance were based on budget exchange 
rates. Therefore actual performance is higher than the reported 
performance due to movements in exchange rates during the year.
September 2012 PSP award Metrics reflect success in delivering 
strong results through the three-year cycle
Metric Target Actual % achieved
Relative TSR against 
comparator group
Upper quartile 
(UQ) UQ 100%
EPS 17.39% 18.71% 100%
KEY FY15 GENERAL BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
• Like-for-like net fee growth of 9%
 (1)
 
• Operating profit up 25% 
(1)
• Strong cash conversion
• Acquisition of Veredus
(1)  Like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations 
at constant currency.
 See p68 for more details
WHAT CHANGES HAVE WE MADE?
There are no changes to our Remuneration Policy. 
We received a binding vote of 92.6% in favour of the Policy at the 
November 2014 AGM indicating strong support for our approach. 
However, in line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code 
we have:
• Introduced clawback provisions into our incentive plans.  
These will apply to the FY16 PSP awards made in 2015 and  
any deferred bonus awards made in 2016 in relation to  
FY16 performance. 
Further details are on page 75
• We have further elaborated on how our reward policy takes 
into consideration Hays’ principal areas of risk. 
Further details are on page 65
Our full Remuneration Policy can be found on pages 60 to 70  
of the 2014 Annual Report and on our website, haysplc.com.
A summary of the Policy can be found on pages 64 to 65  
of this Report.
 See p64 for more details 64 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
SUMMARY OF OUR REMUNERATION 
POLICY AND WHAT WE HAVE DONE 
DURING THE YEAR
Our Remuneration Policy was approved by 
shareholders at the Company’s AGM on 12 
November 2014 and received strong support.
There is no material change to the 
Remuneration Policy this year but 
shareholders are asked to note that:
• In line with the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) issued in 
September 2014, we have now included 
clawback provisions in our incentive plans. 
In accordance with the Code, these will  
be effective in relation to all awards made 
in the financial year 2016. Clawback 
provisions will therefore apply to the PSP 
awards which will be made in September 
2015 and the deferred element of any 
bonus award made in 2016 in relation to 
performance in the 2016 financial year. 
Our full approved Remuneration Policy 
(Policy) can be found in the Directors 
Remuneration Report in the 2014 Annual 
Report pages 60 to 70 and on our website at 
haysplc.com. This summary is not designed 
as a substitute or for any voting purposes. It is 
intended simply to highlight the key features 
of our Policy and what we have done this 
year. We hope shareholders will find it helpful. 
We aim to be clear and transparent in our 
approach and take our responsibility to 
shareholders seriously. We hope this 
summary will demonstrate how we balance 
maintaining a competitive and motivated 
workforce with market concerns about the 
level and structure of pay and the need to 
balance reward with appropriate risk 
management. 
Key remuneration 
component and  
time horizon Key features
How our Remuneration Policy 
links to our strategy How our Remuneration Policy takes into account risk What we have done
SALARY AND CORE 
BENEFITS
Salary set annually from 1 July.
Broadly aligned with pay increases 
for other UK employees in the 
Company.
Core benefits include cash allowance 
in lieu of pension (30% of base  
salary), private medical insurance, 
life assurance and other benefits in 
line with UK employees.
Base salary, associated benefits  
and variable pay elements combine 
to attract, retain and motivate  
the calibre of executives required  
to shape and execute strategy and 
generate superior shareholder returns.
A principal risk is the loss of specialised talent.
This is mitigated by offering a competitive package against businesses of a 
comparable size and comparable peer group as well as recognising the breadth  
of the role and individual experience the role-holder brings to the Company. 
With effect from 1 July 2015, base salaries for the executive directors were 
increased by 2.0%.
Alistair Cox – Annual salary moved from £695,386 to £709,294 
Paul Venables – Annual salary moved from £501,373 to £511,400 
The salary pay review budget for UK employees was 2.0%.
Where you can find more information: 
Page 66 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
CASH BONUS
Maximum potential 125% of  
base salary.
60% of any bonus earned is paid in 
cash and 40% deferred – see below.
Threshold level of performance 
earns 20% of salary based on 
achieving threshold EPS and  
cash conversion.
Cash bonus in relation to FY16 
onwards will be subject to  
clawback provisions for three  
years post award.
Financial and personal objectives 
are set with reference to our 
business strategy approved by  
the Board.
Current weighting and measures are: 
60% Earnings per share*
20% Cash conversion*
20% Personal
* Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
The metrics focus on shareholder 
returns (via EPS), while ensuring 
ongoing business efficiency  
(cash conversion) and continued  
focus on planning for the future 
(personal goals).
In establishing the annual Group budget, the Board seeks to ensure that 
achievable, yet stretching, goals are properly balanced with risk. Financial targets 
for reward are then linked to budget.
The financial metrics chosen are KPIs of the business and therefore reflect how 
well management mitigates our principal financial and reputational business risks 
which include:
• Its cyclical nature, closely linked to the economy;
• Ensuring we have the right business model to deal with market changes;
• The importance of compliance and data governance when operating across  
33 countries with multiple regulatory and legal frameworks; and
• Increased reliance on technology and the associated risk of data loss or  
system failure.
The EPS metric is a measure that is aligned with shareholder interests. The targets 
are set taking into account market conditions and expectations of performance set 
through a robust budget process.
Cash conversion promotes free cash flow through working capital and capital 
expenditure control and is a key indicator of the efficiency of the business. 
Following the issue of the Code, we have introduced clawback provisions which 
will apply to any cash bonus that may be awarded for performance in relation to 
the full financial year 2016 and going forward. Clawback will be applicable to the 
cash element for up to three years from award.
There is no change to any other aspect of our bonus policy.
Bonuses awarded in relation to full year 2015 performance are as follows:
Alistair Cox, CEO – £851,848 
Of this 60% i.e. £511,109 will be awarded in cash and the balance deferred  
– see below.
Paul Venables, CFO – £607,915 
Of this 60% i.e. £364,749 will be awarded in cash and the balance deferred  
– see below.
DEFERRED BONUS
40% of any bonus earned is deferred 
into shares for three years.
Deferred bonus is subject to malus 
provisions during the three-year 
deferral period.
Deferred bonus is awarded in shares 
and therefore helps align future 
focus with that of shareholders and 
longer-term strategy.
Personal objectives are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to enhance 
the Group’s operational strength and competitiveness in line with future strategy. 
They include operating within our Group risk framework.
Bonus deferral into shares helps focus on long-term outcomes.
The annual bonus also has malus provisions during the three-year deferral period 
and clawback provisions (new for any bonus made in relation to FY16 and going 
forward, and applicable for three years post cash award).
40% of the above bonus was deferred into shares for three years as follows:
Alistair Cox – £340,739
Paul Venables – £243,166
The shares will be granted on 4 September 2015 using the closing share price  
on the preceding day. 
Where you can find more information: 
Page 67 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
PERFORMANCE 
SHARE PLAN (PSP)
Normal maximum potential for 
executive directors is 175% of  
base salary.
Normally granted annually.
Performance period is three years.
Threshold performance equates  
to 25% of the award i.e. 43.75%  
of salary.
Award is subject to malus provisions 
prior to vesting.
Awards made from FY2016, will be 
subject to clawback provisions for  
up to two years post vesting.
Key financial performance metrics  
are set in line with the Company’s 
long-term strategy approved by  
the Board. 
Current performance conditions are:
• One-third based on total 
shareholder return (TSR) relative  
to comparator group, with vesting 
subject to satisfactory financial 
performance over the period, as 
determined by the Committee; 
• One-third based on cumulative 
earnings per share; and 
• One-third based on cash 
conversion.
The PSP metrics mitigate risk by providing a balanced approach of actual financial 
performance and business efficiency over a longer time period, together with 
relative performance against comparable businesses and longer-term alignment 
with shareholders.
The TSR metric measures the relative return from Hays shares against a basket of 
comparator companies and the result is underpinned by the Company’s underlying 
financial performance.
The EPS metric targets are calculated taking into account the Company budget  
for Year 1 plus growth around a fixed range of RPI+4% and RPI+12% per annum for  
Years 2 and 3.
The Cash conversion metric indicates the continuous focus for ongoing business 
cash efficiency whatever the trading circumstances of the business.
The award in shares focuses on alignment with shareholders.
Malus provisions (during the three-year performance period) and clawback 
provisions (new for awards from FY16 and applicable for two years post vesting)  
are also in place to mitigate risk.
Following the issue of the Code, we have introduced clawback provisions  
which will apply to the PSP grant awarded in the 2016 financial year and that will 
vest at the end of the 2018 financial year. Clawback would apply for two years 
following vesting.
There is no change to any other aspect of our PSP policy.
The Committee has determined to make the following awards which will  
be granted on 10 September 2015 based on the closing share price on the 
preceding day.
Alistair Cox – 175% of salary. 
This equates to a face value at grant of £1,241,265. 
Paul Venables – 175% of salary. 
This equates to a face value at grant of £894,950. 
The number of shares that vest will be dependent on performance against  
the metrics. 
Where you can find more information: 
Page 67 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
SHAREHOLDING 
REQUIREMENTS
Chief Executive – 200% of  
base salary.
Group Finance Director – 100%  
of base salary.
Shareholding requirements ensure 
that executive directors’ interests 
are aligned with shareholders over  
a longer time horizon.
Encouraging a material, personal stake in the business through substantial 
shareholding requirements helps to align executives with shareholders and focus  
on delivering long-term shareholder value which includes risk mitigation.
There is no change to any aspect of our shareholding policy.
Shareholdings as a % of base salary as at 30 June 2015 using only those shares  
that are fully vested and where the executive directors have beneficial ownership:
Alistair Cox, CEO – 607% of salary
Paul Venables, CFO – 311% of salary
Shareholding requirements fully met.
Share price of £1.634 as at 30 June 2015.
Where you can find more information: 
Page 72 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
TIME HORIZON KEY
ONGOING 3 YEARS 2 YEARS 1 YEAR STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 65
Key remuneration 
component and  
time horizon Key features
How our Remuneration Policy 
links to our strategy How our Remuneration Policy takes into account risk What we have done
SALARY AND CORE 
BENEFITS
Salary set annually from 1 July.
Broadly aligned with pay increases 
for other UK employees in the 
Company.
Core benefits include cash allowance 
in lieu of pension (30% of base  
salary), private medical insurance, 
life assurance and other benefits in 
line with UK employees.
Base salary, associated benefits  
and variable pay elements combine 
to attract, retain and motivate  
the calibre of executives required  
to shape and execute strategy and 
generate superior shareholder returns.
A principal risk is the loss of specialised talent.
This is mitigated by offering a competitive package against businesses of a 
comparable size and comparable peer group as well as recognising the breadth  
of the role and individual experience the role-holder brings to the Company. 
With effect from 1 July 2015, base salaries for the executive directors were 
increased by 2.0%.
Alistair Cox – Annual salary moved from £695,386 to £709,294 
Paul Venables – Annual salary moved from £501,373 to £511,400 
The salary pay review budget for UK employees was 2.0%.
Where you can find more information: 
Page 66 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
CASH BONUS
Maximum potential 125% of  
base salary.
60% of any bonus earned is paid in 
cash and 40% deferred – see below.
Threshold level of performance 
earns 20% of salary based on 
achieving threshold EPS and  
cash conversion.
Cash bonus in relation to FY16 
onwards will be subject to  
clawback provisions for three  
years post award.
Financial and personal objectives 
are set with reference to our 
business strategy approved by  
the Board.
Current weighting and measures are: 
60% Earnings per share*
20% Cash conversion*
20% Personal
* Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
The metrics focus on shareholder 
returns (via EPS), while ensuring 
ongoing business efficiency  
(cash conversion) and continued  
focus on planning for the future 
(personal goals).
In establishing the annual Group budget, the Board seeks to ensure that 
achievable, yet stretching, goals are properly balanced with risk. Financial targets 
for reward are then linked to budget.
The financial metrics chosen are KPIs of the business and therefore reflect how 
well management mitigates our principal financial and reputational business risks 
which include:
• Its cyclical nature, closely linked to the economy;
• Ensuring we have the right business model to deal with market changes;
• The importance of compliance and data governance when operating across  
33 countries with multiple regulatory and legal frameworks; and
• Increased reliance on technology and the associated risk of data loss or  
system failure.
The EPS metric is a measure that is aligned with shareholder interests. The targets 
are set taking into account market conditions and expectations of performance set 
through a robust budget process.
Cash conversion promotes free cash flow through working capital and capital 
expenditure control and is a key indicator of the efficiency of the business. 
Following the issue of the Code, we have introduced clawback provisions which 
will apply to any cash bonus that may be awarded for performance in relation to 
the full financial year 2016 and going forward. Clawback will be applicable to the 
cash element for up to three years from award.
There is no change to any other aspect of our bonus policy.
Bonuses awarded in relation to full year 2015 performance are as follows:
Alistair Cox, CEO – £851,848 
Of this 60% i.e. £511,109 will be awarded in cash and the balance deferred  
– see below.
Paul Venables, CFO – £607,915 
Of this 60% i.e. £364,749 will be awarded in cash and the balance deferred  
– see below.
DEFERRED BONUS
40% of any bonus earned is deferred 
into shares for three years.
Deferred bonus is subject to malus 
provisions during the three-year 
deferral period.
Deferred bonus is awarded in shares 
and therefore helps align future 
focus with that of shareholders and 
longer-term strategy.
Personal objectives are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to enhance 
the Group’s operational strength and competitiveness in line with future strategy. 
They include operating within our Group risk framework.
Bonus deferral into shares helps focus on long-term outcomes.
The annual bonus also has malus provisions during the three-year deferral period 
and clawback provisions (new for any bonus made in relation to FY16 and going 
forward, and applicable for three years post cash award).
40% of the above bonus was deferred into shares for three years as follows:
Alistair Cox – £340,739
Paul Venables – £243,166
The shares will be granted on 4 September 2015 using the closing share price  
on the preceding day. 
Where you can find more information: 
Page 67 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
PERFORMANCE 
SHARE PLAN (PSP)
Normal maximum potential for 
executive directors is 175% of  
base salary.
Normally granted annually.
Performance period is three years.
Threshold performance equates  
to 25% of the award i.e. 43.75%  
of salary.
Award is subject to malus provisions 
prior to vesting.
Awards made from FY2016, will be 
subject to clawback provisions for  
up to two years post vesting.
Key financial performance metrics  
are set in line with the Company’s 
long-term strategy approved by  
the Board. 
Current performance conditions are:
• One-third based on total 
shareholder return (TSR) relative  
to comparator group, with vesting 
subject to satisfactory financial 
performance over the period, as 
determined by the Committee; 
• One-third based on cumulative 
earnings per share; and 
• One-third based on cash 
conversion.
The PSP metrics mitigate risk by providing a balanced approach of actual financial 
performance and business efficiency over a longer time period, together with 
relative performance against comparable businesses and longer-term alignment 
with shareholders.
The TSR metric measures the relative return from Hays shares against a basket of 
comparator companies and the result is underpinned by the Company’s underlying 
financial performance.
The EPS metric targets are calculated taking into account the Company budget  
for Year 1 plus growth around a fixed range of RPI+4% and RPI+12% per annum for  
Years 2 and 3.
The Cash conversion metric indicates the continuous focus for ongoing business 
cash efficiency whatever the trading circumstances of the business.
The award in shares focuses on alignment with shareholders.
Malus provisions (during the three-year performance period) and clawback 
provisions (new for awards from FY16 and applicable for two years post vesting)  
are also in place to mitigate risk.
Following the issue of the Code, we have introduced clawback provisions  
which will apply to the PSP grant awarded in the 2016 financial year and that will 
vest at the end of the 2018 financial year. Clawback would apply for two years 
following vesting.
There is no change to any other aspect of our PSP policy.
The Committee has determined to make the following awards which will  
be granted on 10 September 2015 based on the closing share price on the 
preceding day.
Alistair Cox – 175% of salary. 
This equates to a face value at grant of £1,241,265. 
Paul Venables – 175% of salary. 
This equates to a face value at grant of £894,950. 
The number of shares that vest will be dependent on performance against  
the metrics. 
Where you can find more information: 
Page 67 of the Annual Report on Remuneration
SHAREHOLDING 
REQUIREMENTS
Chief Executive – 200% of  
base salary.
Group Finance Director – 100%  
of base salary.
Shareholding requirements ensure 
that executive directors’ interests 
are aligned with shareholders over  
a longer time horizon.
Encouraging a material, personal stake in the business through substantial 
shareholding requirements helps to align executives with shareholders and focus  
on delivering long-term shareholder value which includes risk mitigation.
There is no change to any aspect of our shareholding policy.
Shareholdings as a % of base salary as at 30 June 2015 using only those shares  
that are fully vested and where the executive directors have beneficial ownership:
Alistair Cox, CEO – 607% of salary
Paul Venables, CFO – 311% of salary
Shareholding requirements fully met.
Share price of £1.634 as at 30 June 2015.
Where you can find more information: 
Page 72 of the Annual Report on Remuneration 66 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
The following table shows the single total figure of remuneration for each executive director in respect of qualifying services for the 2015  
financial year. Comparative figures for the 2014 financial year have also been provided. Details of non-executive directors’ (NEDs) fees  
are set out on page 74.
£000s
Executive director
Salary
Note 1
Benefits 
Note 2
Pension 
Note 3
Other 
Note 4
Annual 
Bonus 
Note 5
Total 
remuneration 
excluding PSP
PSP
(1)
 
Note 6
Total 
remuneration
(1)
2015
Alistair Cox  
Chief Executive 695 43 208 0 852 1,798 2,464 4,262
Paul Venables  
Group Finance Director 501 33 150 0 608 1,292 1,777 3,069
2014
Alistair Cox 678 46 204 1 831 1,760 1,066 2,826
Paul Venables 489 29 147 1 599 1,265 769 2,034
(1)  2015 PSP figures exclude the value of the dividend equivalent shares relating to the dividend which is subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, but for which the awards 
qualify. 2014 PSP figures now reflect actual vesting price; the total has therefore also been adjusted.
COMPONENTS OF THE SINGLE FIGURE AND HOW THE CALCULATIONS ARE WORKED
The following tables explain how the Single Figure has been derived.
SALARY – NOTE 1 (AUDITED)
Salary Policy summary and explanation Name
Salary for 
FY15
% increase 
over 
FY14
Salary for 
FY14
Set annually from 1 July 
Broadly aligned with salary increases for UK employees. 
Salaries were increased by 2.5% wef 1 July 2014.
Alistair Cox £695,386 2.5% £678,425
Paul Venables £501,373 2.5% £489,144
BENEFITS – NOTE 2 (AUDITED)
£000s
Benefits Policy summary and explanation Executive director PMI
Life 
assurance
Income 
protection
Travel and 
mileage
Car 
allowance Total
Core benefits  
align with those  
for other UK employees.
2015
Alistair Cox 2 8 9 4 20 43
Paul Venables 2 4 9 – 18 33
2014
Alistair Cox 2 10 8 6 20 46
Paul Venables 2 3 6 – 18 29
  PMI, life assurance and income protection figures represent the annual premiums. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 67
PENSION – NOTE 3 (AUDITED)
Other than a cash payment in lieu of pension at the rate of 30% of base salary, there are no other pension arrangements for the directors.  
For the sake of clarity, neither executive director has any defined benefit pension provision.
£000s
Pension Policy summary and explanation Executive director Pension
Cash allowance: 30% of base salary. There is no other pension provision. 2015
Alistair Cox 208
Paul Venables 150
2014
Alistair Cox 204
Paul Venables 147
OTHER BENEFITS – NOTE 4 (AUDITED)
£000s
Other benefits explanation Executive director Other
The 2014 figure shows the value of the discount on SAYE options as at the  
date of grant.
Neither Alistair Cox nor Paul Venables participated in the 2015 SAYE as they 
were already saving at the maximum limit permitted under the Scheme.
2015
Alistair Cox 0
Paul Venables 0
2014
Alistair Cox 1
Paul Venables 1
ANNUAL BONUS – NOTE 5 (AUDITED)
The figure shown is the total bonus awarded in relation to performance in the year, including the portion that is deferred.
For bonus awarded in relation to 2015 and 2014 performance, 40% of the figure shown is deferred into shares for three years. There are no 
further performance conditions but leaver terms apply.
See page 68 for detailed information on performance against targets.
£000s
Annual Bonus Policy summary and explanation Executive director
Annual 
Bonus
Of which 
cash – 60%
Of which 
deferred – 
40%
% of 
salary 
achievement
Maximum bonus potential is 125% of base salary, of which 60% 
is paid in cash and 40% of any award is deferred into shares.
2015
Alistair Cox 852 511 341 122.50%
Paul Venables 608 365 243 121.25%
2014 
Alistair Cox 831 499 332 122.50%
Paul Venables 599 359 240 122.50%
PSP – NOTE 6
2012 PSP AWARD VESTING 2015
The value of the 2012 PSP (vesting in November 2015) is based on a share price of 161.26 pence, which was calculated using an average for the 
final quarter of the financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting will occur after the date of this Report. The share price on 
award was 81.55 pence. The award vested in full.
See page 69 for detailed information on performance against targets. 68 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
2011 PSP AWARD VESTING 2014
The value of the 2011 PSP (which vested in 2014 and was disclosed in the 2014 Single Figure) was based on a share price of 148.88 pence which 
was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2014 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting occurred after 
the date of the Report. The share price on award was 70.90 pence. The actual share price on the date of vesting on 23rd September 2014 was 
119.18 pence. This price has been used to restate the value of the 2011 PSP awards in the Single Figure for 2014 in the table above.
£000s
PSP Policy Summary and explanation Executive director
Value in 2015 Single Figure 
based on share price of 
161.26p Restatement
Maximum potential is 175% of base salary.
Three-year performance period.
2015 Value will be restated in FY16 
report when vesting share price is 
known and dividend equivalent 
shares have been added.
Alistair Cox 2,464
Paul Venables 1,777
2014
Value in 2014 Single Figure 
based on share price of 
148.88p
Value restated based on actual 
share price at vesting of 
119.18p
Alistair Cox 1,332 1,066
Paul Venables 960 769
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE 2015 ANNUAL BONUS AWARDS AND 2012 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN AWARDS (PSP)  
VESTING IN 2015
The Remuneration Committee believes that performance conditions for all incentives are:
• Suitably demanding;
• Have regard to business strategy;
• Incorporate an understanding of business risk;
• Consider shareholder expectations; and
• Take into account the cyclicality of the recruitment markets in which the Group operates.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse. There is no retesting of performance.
ANNUAL BONUS AWARD FOR 2015 PERFORMANCE
SUMMARY
The performance metrics and objectives Assessment Achievement and what happens now
60% on earnings per share (EPS):  
focuses on shareholder returns;
20% on cash conversion:  
ensures ongoing business efficiency; and
20% on personal objectives: safeguard 
and plan for the Company’s future. 
Personal objectives include: 
Alistair Cox:
• Overseeing a successful US acquisition
• Further growth in the Asia business
Paul Venables:
• Managing all aspects of a US acquisition 
including successful integration
• Further embedding the enterprise  
risk management process
Due to the strategic nature of the personal 
objectives for the Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director, the Company feels 
that other objectives, which are ongoing in 
nature and about developing our business, 
are commercially sensitive.
The Committee reviews both the Company’s 
results and executive directors’ performance 
against their personal objectives.
The basic EPS targets and actual 
performance were measured at budget 
exchange rates.
Cash conversion is the operating cash flow 
of the Company after deducting net capital 
expenditure items for the financial year, 
stated as a percentage of operating profit 
before exceptional items.
In addition to assessment of the individual 
executives’ overall performance against key 
objectives, the Committee also takes into 
account its view of the directors’ regulatory 
compliance and approach to risk (including 
environmental, social or governance  
(ESG) risks).
The Committee has not exercised any 
discretion in relation to bonus outcomes.
Alistair Cox 
Achieved 122.5% of salary (out of 125% 
maximum potential i.e. 98% of maximum).
This equates to a bonus of £851,848  
(as stated in the Single Figure) of which:
• 60% or £511,109 will be paid as cash; and
• 40% or £340,739 will be deferred into 
shares for three years. There are no further 
performance conditions.
Paul Venables 
Achieved 121.25% of salary (out of 125% 
maximum potential i.e. 97% of maximum).
This equates to a bonus of £607,915 (as 
stated in the Single Figure) of which:
• 60% or £364,749 will be paid as cash; and
• 40% or £243,166 will be deferred into 
shares for three years. There are no further 
performance conditions. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 69
ACTUAL RESULTS (AUDITED)
Annual Bonus 2015 outcome Alistair Cox Paul Venables
Performance condition Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
Actual 
performance
Annual bonus 
value for meeting 
threshold and 
maximum 
performance
(% Salary)
Achievement 
% salary
Bonus 
value
 £000s
Achievement 
% salary
Bonus 
value 
£000s
EPS 60% 6.55p 7.48p 7.74p* 15 – 75 75% 522 75% 376
Cash conversion 20% 71% 101% 108.47% 5 – 25 25% 174 25% 125
Personal 20% – 100% 85-90% 0 – 25 22.5% 156 21.25% 107
Total 2015 100% These totals are in the 2015 
Single Figure
122.5% 852 121.25% 608
*  Both the target and actual performance were based on budget exchange rates. 
Therefore actual performance is higher than the reported performance due to 
movements in exchange rates during the year.
Of which cash 511 Of which cash 365
Of which 
deferred – 40% 341
Of which 
deferred – 40% 243
Total bonus 
achieved in 2014 122.5% 831 122.5% 599
Of which cash 499 Of which cash 359
Of which 
deferred – 40% 332
Of which 
deferred – 40% 240
The personal objectives outlined on page 68 were successfully achieved. In December 2014, Hays purchased Veredus in North America  
and this acquisition will help cement our business in the USA. During 2014, a Group Risk Committee was established to add further governance 
and enhance our already robust risk management framework. As set out on page 23, Hays delivered strong net fee and operating profit  
growth in Asia.
Both the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have personal objectives that are also linked to developing and growing our business  
in the long term as well as improving financial performance through increased efficiencies and technology. The specific objectives are considered 
commercially sensitive as they are ongoing in nature.
2012 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP) VESTING IN 2015
SUMMARY
The performance metrics  
(Legacy Plan prior to 2014 Policy) Assessment Achievement and what happens now
Three-year plan 
Performance period: 1 July 
2012 to 30 June 2015.
Granted: 8 November 2012 and 
will vest 8 November 2015 
(first working day thereafter).
Metrics 
50% on cumulative earnings 
per share (EPS): focuses on 
longer term shareholder 
returns.
50% on relative total 
shareholder return (TSR): 
Ranks the performance of 
Hays against a sector group  
of comparator companies:
Adecco SA
CDI Corporation
Kelly Services, Inc.
ManpowerGroup Inc.
Michael Page International plc
Randstad Holdings nv
Robert Half International Inc
Robert Walters plc
SThree plc
USG People N.V.
Cumulative Earnings Per Share is the consolidated 
basic earnings per share of the Company 
calculated in accordance with IAS33 for each 
financial year cumulative over the performance 
period. Goodwill impairments arising from 
acquisitions prior to 30 June 2006 are excluded 
from the earnings per share calculation.
The Committee may make adjustments to the 
calculations of cumulative earnings per share, 
including taking into account unusual or non-
recurring items that do not reflect underlying 
performance.
TSR for each company is the difference between 
the average market values (in sterling terms) of a 
notional shareholding (including dividends) in that 
company on all dealing days for the three-month 
period prior to the start and the end of the 
performance period, divided by the average 
market values (in sterling terms) of a notional 
shareholding in that company on all dealing days 
for three-month period prior to the start of the 
performance period. The TSR for Hays shares is 
ranked against the respective TSR performances 
of the comparator group. 
Vesting will be subject to satisfactory financial 
performance over the performance period as 
determined by the Committee.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion  
in relation to PSP outcomes.
Alistair Cox 
Awarded 1,427,302 shares in 2012.
100% of the award has vested.
1,528,218 shares will be released in November 
2015 which includes accrued dividend equivalent 
shares, with the exception of those relating to the 
dividend to be approved at this year’s AGM.
This equates to a value of £2,464,404 using a 
preliminary share price of £1.6126 – see below.
This value will be restated in 2016’s Report  
once the final share price and number of 
dividends are known.
Paul Venables 
Awarded 1,029,082 shares in 2012.
100% of the award has vested.
1,101,841 shares will be released in November 2015 
which includes accrued dividend equivalent 
shares, with the exception of those relating to the 
dividend to be approved at this year’s AGM.
This equates to a value of £1,776,829 using a 
preliminary share price of £1.6126 – see below.
This value will be restated in 2016’s Report once 
the final share price and number of dividends  
are known. 70 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
ACTUAL RESULTS (AUDITED)
PSP 2012 (GRANTED IN FY13) VESTING 2015
Performance period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015
Grant date 8 November 2012
Release date (or first working day thereafter) 8 November 2015
PSP value as % of salary for:
Performance 
condition Weighting
Threshold performance 
required
Maximum performance 
required
Below 
threshold Threshold Maximum
Actual 
performance
PSP value 
achieved as 
% of salary
Relative TSR 50%
Median of the 
comparator group
Upper quartile of the 
comparator group 0 21.875 87.5 UQ 87.5%
EPS
(1)
50% 14.86p 17.39p 0 21.875 87.5 18.71p 87.5%
Total 100% 0 43.75 175 – 175%
25% of award 100% of award
(1)  For the FY2013 PSP award the three year cumulative target was calculated such that Year 1 target growth was based on the Reuters consensus forecast for FY2013  
of 4.86 pence, established on the working day preceding the date of grant of the awards. FY2013 threshold and maximum range around this target was -/+ 4% 
respectively. Years 2 and 3 required further growth on FY2013 of RPI + 4% to 12% per annum for threshold and maximum growth respectively. The initial targets 
assumed RPI was 2.6% per annum. The final threshold and maximum figures shown above reflect actual RPI.
Name
% of 
2012 
salary 
awarded
Face
value at 
award 
£000s
Share price 
at award 
p
Maximum 
number of 
shares
Number of shares 
that vested 
including dividend 
equivalent shares
Release 
date
Value 
(figure shown 
in Single 
Figure of 
Remuneration) 
£000s
(1)
2011 
award value that 
vested in 2014 as 
stated in 2014 
Single Figure 
£000s
2011 
award value 
restated using 
share price at 
release date 
£000s
(2)
Alistair Cox 175% 1,164 81.55 1,427,302 1,528,218 8 Nov 2,464 1,332 1,066
Paul Venables 175% 839 81.55 1,029,082 1,101,841 8 Nov 1,777 960 769
(1)  The value of the 2012 PSP is based on a share price of 161.26 pence which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2015 financial year in accordance 
with the Regulations as the vesting will occur after the date of this report. It excludes the dividend equivalent shares relating to the dividend to be approved at the 
2015 AGM, for which the awards qualify.
(2)  The value of the 2011 PSP disclosed in the 2014 Single Figure was based on a share price of 148.88 pence which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 
2014 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting occurred after the date of the report. The share price on award was 70.90 pence. The actual share price on 
the date of vesting on 23 September 2014 was 119.18 pence. This price has been used to restate the value of the 2011 PSP awards in the Single Figure for 2014 in the table above.
WHAT ELSE HAPPENED IN 2015?
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP) AWARDS MADE IN FY15
The table below sets out the details of the PSP awards granted as nil cost options in the 2015 financial year, and where vesting will be determined 
according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods. The awards were made in line with the 
PSP in the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. The share price used to calculate the award is 124.6 pence, being the 
closing price on the day preceding the grant date.
PSP 2014 (GRANTED IN FY15) VESTING 2017 (AUDITED)
Performance period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017
Grant date 14 November 2014
Release date 14 November 2017
PSP value as % of salary for:
Performance condition Weighting Threshold performance required Maximum performance required Below threshold Threshold Maximum
Relative TSR 1/3 
Median of the 
comparator group
Upper quartile of the 
comparator group 0 14.583 58.33
EPS
(1)
1/3 21.67p 25.35p 0 14.583 58.33
Cash conversion 1/3 71% 101% 0 14.583 58.33
Total 100% 0 43.75 175
25% of award 100% of award
(1)   The Committee takes into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets for an award:
 •  Budget (the setting of which is a robust and transparent process): Company budget for FY15 and the expectations for performance; strategic direction of the 
business over the period covered by the PSP award; market conditions and visibility of future trading.
 • FY15 threshold and maximum range around this target was -/+ 4% respectively.
 •  Threshold and maximum ongoing growth expectations for years two and three set around a fixed range currently RPI+4% to RPI+12%. The initial targets assume  
RPI of 3% per annum. The final threshold and maximum figures will be adjusted to reflect the actual RPI once known.
 • Analyst forecasts. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 71
Name
% of FY15 
salary 
awarded
Face
value at 
award 
£000s
Share price 
at award 
£
Maximum 
number of 
shares
Threshold 
number 
of shares
Alistair Cox 175 1,217 1.246 976,666 244,166
Paul Venables 175 877 1.246 704,175 176,043
OTHER OUTSTANDING AWARDS
For information, other outstanding PSP awards, deferred annual bonus awards made in prior years and executive directors’ outstanding share 
options are shown below.
OUTSTANDING 2013 PSP AWARD (GRANTED IN FY14 AND VESTING IN 2016) (AUDITED)
This award was granted in line with the legacy plan and has the same performance conditions and vesting ability as the PSP granted in 2012 that 
vested in 2015 (see page 69).
Performance period 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2016
Grant date 12 September 2013
Release date 12 September 2016
Name
% of 
2012 salary 
awarded
Face value at 
award 
£000s
Share price at 
award 
£
Maximum 
number 
of shares
Threshold 
number 
of shares
Alistair Cox 175 1,187 1.139 1,042,356 260,589
Paul Venables 175 856 1.139 751,538 187,839
OUTSTANDING DEFERRED ANNUAL BONUS AWARDS (DAB) (AUDITED)
The table below shows the shares held under the DAB that were awarded or vested during the financial year 2015. The shares that vested  
related to deferred annual bonus from previous years. The shares awarded in the financial year 2015 relate to deferred annual bonus in relation to 
performance in the financial year 2014. Dividend equivalent shares which accrue under the DAB have been ignored in the table below. There are 
no further performance conditions.
Name
Awards 
outstanding 
at 1 July 2014
Awards 
granted 
in FY 2015
Grant price 
(Market price at
 date of award) 
£
Face value of award 
granted in FY15 
(at grant price) 
£
Awards vesting 
in FY 2015
Awards 
outstanding 
as at 
30 June 2015
Alistair Cox 798,866 250,699 1.326 332,427 339,828 709,737
Paul Venables 579,026 180,754 1.326 239,680 248,060 511,720
SHARE OPTIONS
Both executive directors participate in the UK Sharesave Scheme (approved by HMRC) on the same terms as other eligible employees.  
The following table shows outstanding options over Ordinary shares held by the executive directors during the year ended 30 June 2015.
Name
Scheme date 
of grant
Balance 
1 July 2014 Exercised
Balance 
30 June 2015
Option 
Price 
£
Exercise 
date
Market price 
on date 
of exercise Gain
Date 
from which 
exercisable Expiry date
Alistair Cox 31 March 2014 6,870 – 6,870 1.31 – – – 1 May 2017 31 October 2017
Paul Venables 31 March 2014 4,122 – 4,122 1.31 – – – 1 May 2017 31 October 2017
Paul Venables 28 March 2013 4,090 – 4,090 0.88 – – – 1 May 2016 31 October 2016 72 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
Shareholding requirements in operation at Hays are currently 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the  
Group Finance Director. Both are required to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time which would normally be five years. 
The number of shares of the Company in which current directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at  
30 June 2015 are set out in the table below.
Name
Shareholding 
requirement 
% of salary
Number of 
shares owned 
outright/
vested shares
Share price as 
at 30 June 
2015
Base salary as 
at 1 July 
2014
Actual share 
ownership 
as % of 
base salary
Guidelines 
met
Alistair Cox 200% 2,583,871 £1.634 £695,386 607% Yes
Paul Venables 100% 953,014 £1.634 £501,373 311% Yes
Shares used for the above calculation exclude those with performance conditions i.e. those awarded under the PSP which are still within their 
performance period, any unexercised options, those shares subject to a holding period or period of deferral and any shares held in a private  
Trust where the executive director is not a Trustee. They include vested shares where the executive directors have beneficial ownership, shares 
independently acquired in the market and those held by a spouse or civil partner or dependent child under the age of 18 years. The executive 
directors’ total shareholdings, including shares subject to deferral but excluding Sharesave Options, are shown below.
Name Type
Number of
owned 
outright/
vested shares
Value of
owned 
outright/
vested shares
(2)
£
Number 
of shares 
subject to 
deferral/
holding
period
(1)
Value of 
shares 
subject to 
deferral/
holding 
period
(2)
£
Number of total
vested and
unvested 
shares
(excludes any
shares with
performance
conditions)
Value of total
vested and
unvested 
shares
(excludes any
shares with
performance
conditions)
(2)
£
Share 
ownership
as % of base
salary using
vested and
unvested 
shares
PSP share 
interests 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Alistair Cox Shares 2,583,871 4,222,045
Options 709,737 1,159,710 3,446,324
Total 3,293,608 5,381,755 774%
Paul Venables Shares 953,014 1,557,225
Options 511,720 836,150 2,484,795
Total 1,464,734 2,393,375 477%
(1) Unvested shares will be subject to payroll deductions for tax and social security on vesting. Number excludes dividend equivalent shares.
(2) Share price as at 30 June 2015 and used in the above table was £1.634.
There have been no changes to the above holdings as at 3 September 2015.
 OTHER INFORMATION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE HISTORIC REMUNERATION
The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last six years, valued using the methodology applied to 
the total single figure of remuneration. The 2014 figure has been restated to take into consideration the actual share price on date of PSP vesting, 
as previously explained on page 68.
Chief Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total Single Figure (£000s) 1,634 2,157 1,328 2,012 2,826 4,262
Annual bonus payment level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) 89% 80% 37% 95% 98% 98%
PSP vesting level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) 0% 50% 0% 22% 50% 100%
DAB match vesting level achieved (% of maximum opportunity) N/A 59% 60% N/A N/A N/A
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Hays  FTSE 350
£
Year
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)
The graph shows the value of £100 invested in the 
Company’s shares compared to the FTSE 350 index. The 
graph shows the total shareholder return generated by both 
the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the 
same period of dividend income. The Committee considers 
that the FTSE 350 is the appropriate index because the 
Company has been a member of this index throughout the 
period. This graph has been calculated in accordance with 
the Regulations. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 73
CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION COMPARED WITH UK EMPLOYEES
The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive from 2014 to 2015 compared with the average 
percentage change for UK employees. 
The Chief Executive’s remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits, excluding 
his allowance in lieu of pension, and annual bonus (including any amount deferred). The UK employee pay (on which the average percentage 
change is based) is calculated using the increase in the earnings of UK-based, full-time employees using P60 and P11d data from tax years 2014 
and 2015. Part-time employees have been excluded from the analysis as many will have experienced material changes in pay during the period 
due to their change of hours.
The employee analysis is done on a matched basis, that is, the same individuals appear in the 2014 and 2015 populations.
The comparison figures are based on UK employees (as described above) as both executive directors and most of the Management Board are 
UK based and this is considered to be an appropriate comparison.
Salary Taxable benefits Variable pay
£000s
2015
£000s
2014 % change
£000s
2015
£000s
2014 % change
£000s
2015
£000s
2014 % change
Chief Executive 695 678 2.5% 43 46 -6.5% 852 831 2.5%
UK total pay 37,710 45,010 1,328 1,404 22,680 24,014
Number of employees 1,001 1,284 1,001 1,284 1,001 1,284
Average per employee 37 35 5.7% 1 1 0% 23 19 21%
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Company considers that certain external appointments can help to broaden the experience and contribution to the Board of the executive 
directors. Any such appointments are subject to prior agreement by the Company and must not be with competing companies. Subject to the 
Company’s agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
For the 12 months ended 31 March 2015, the fees earned and retained by the executive directors was as follows:
Alistair Cox: £80,000 (3i Group plc)  
Paul Venables: £53,000 (Wincanton plc)
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY
The table below sets out the relative importance of the spend on pay in the 2015 financial year and the 2014 financial year compared with other 
disbursements. All figures are taken from the relevant Hays Annual Report.
Disbursements from profit 
in 2015 financial year
£m
Disbursements from profit 
in 2014 financial year
£m % change
Profit distributed by way of dividend 39.3 37.2 5.6%
Overall spend on pay including directors 440.6 424.4 3.8%
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS/PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DURING 2015
There were no payments made in relation to either of the above in the financial year 2015.
This information has been audited by Deloitte
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) 2014
The table below shows the binding vote on the 2014 Remuneration Policy and advisory vote on the 2014 Report on Remuneration at the 
Company’s 2014 AGM. The Committee believes that the favourable voting outcome shows strong shareholder support for the Group’s 
remuneration arrangements. 
Votes FOR % Votes AGAINST % Abstentions
Remuneration Policy (binding vote) 967,894,803 92.62% 77,110,744 7.38% 4,758,892
Annual Report on Remuneration (advisory vote) 1,032,178,351 98.55% 15,157,505 1.45% 2,428,583
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (NEDS)
FEES FOR 2015
The table below shows the current fee structure and actual fees paid in 2015. There were no taxable benefits paid in 2014 or 2015.  74 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
£000s
Alan 
Thomson
Paul 
Harrison
William 
Eccleshare
(2)
Victoria 
Jarman
Torsten 
Kreindl
Richard 
Smelt
Pippa 
Wicks
Peter 
Williams
 (3)
Chairman SID
 R R R R R R R
N N N N N N N N
A A A A A A A
Base 240 52.5 21.7 52.5 52.5 52.5 52.5 18.3
Committee fee – – – – – – – –
Committee Chairman
(1)
– 12 – 12 – – – –
SID – 5 – – – – – –
Total fee 2015 240 69.5 21.7 64.5 52.5 52.5 52.5 18.3
Total fee 2014 230 68 51 63 51 51 51 –
Key
R  Remuneration Committee member SID  Senior Independent Director
A  Audit Committee member R  Chairman of relevant Committee
N  Nomination Committee member
(1) There is no additional Committee Chair fee for the Nomination Committee.
(2) William Eccleshare retired from the Board on 12 November 2014 and his fees represent the period from 1 July 2014 to 12 November 2014.
(3) Peter Williams joined the Board on 24 February 2015 and his fee represents the period from 24 February 2015 to 30 June 2015.
SHAREHOLDINGS IN 2015 (AUDITED)
The table below shows the NEDs’ shareholdings as at 30 June 2015. 
Non-executive director
Shares held 
at 30 June 2015
Shares held 
at 30 June 2014 
or date of 
joining if later
Alan Thomson 200,000 200,000
Paul Harrison 8,678 8,678
Victoria Jarman 14,000 14,000
Torsten Kreindl – –
Richard Smelt 8,267 8,267
Pippa Wicks – –
Peter Williams
(1)
6,946 6,946
(1) Peter Williams joined the Board on 24 February 2015.
There have been no changes to the above holdings as at 3 September 2015.
REMUNERATION FOR EMPLOYEES BELOW BOARD
As stated in our Remuneration Policy, each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors and the members of the 
Management Board, the Committee considers a report prepared by the Group HR Director detailing remuneration practice across the Group. 
The report provides a regional overview of how employee pay compares to the market, any material changes during the year and includes 
detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK where all of the executive directors and most of the Management Board 
are based. While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the 
remuneration policy set out in this Report, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee population on an 
annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration. 
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR
Below are the Remuneration Policy decisions implemented for the financial year 2016.
There have been no material changes to our Remuneration Policy during FY15. However, the Remuneration Committee took account of the Code 
and has introduced clawback into the executive incentive plans. In reviewing the periods during which clawback should apply, the Committee 
took into consideration the relatively short-term and cyclical nature of our business. The incentive plans already incorporated malus. However, 
the Committee took the opportunity to align the trigger events for both malus and clawback. A summary of how malus and clawback will 
operate is given below. Clawback will be introduced in relation to the PSP granted in 2015 and to any annual bonus awarded in 2016 in relation  
to performance in FY16.  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 75
SUMMARY OF MALUS AND CLAWBACK PROVISIONS
ANNUAL BONUS
• Clawback to apply to the cash element for three years from date of award
• Malus to apply to the deferred element during the three-year deferral period
PSP
• Malus to apply during the three-year performance period
• Clawback to apply for two years post the vesting date
For clarity, clawback provisions and the new trigger events for both malus and clawback will not apply to any annual bonus or PSP already granted.
TRIGGER EVENTS 
• Material misstatement of accounts (previously the only trigger for malus)
• Computation errors in the award calculation
• Computation errors in the calculation of the performance conditions
• Gross misconduct
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Position Name
Base salary 
from 1 July 2015
Maximum bonus potential 
as % of salary
Maximum PSP award 
as % of salary
Benefits and 
pension
CEO Alistair Cox £709,294 125% 175% No change
CFO Paul Venables £511,400 125% 175% No change
The salaries for the CEO and 
CFO were increased by 2.0%, in 
line with the pay review budget 
for other employees in the UK.
See below for 
performance conditions.
See Remuneration Policy and 
Policy Summary on page 64 
for performance conditions. 
BONUS PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS 
The weighting of the performance conditions remain as follows for 2016: 
Performance condition Weighting
EPS 60% The operation of the Bonus Plan is otherwise as set out in the Remuneration Policy and the Policy 
Summary on page 64. It should be noted that the Committee views the disclosure of the actual 
performance targets as commercially sensitive. The Committee will provide retrospective disclosure of 
the performance targets for the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus earned in 
the context of the performance delivered. The Committee believes that some of the personal objectives 
may continue to be commercially sensitive.
Cash conversion 20%
Personal 20%
Total 100%
2015 PSP PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS (GRANTED IN FY16)
Performance period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018
Grant date 10 September 2015
Release date 10 September 2018
PSP value as % of salary for:
Performance 
condition Weighting
Threshold performance 
required
Maximum performance 
required
Below 
threshold Threshold Maximum
Relative TSR
(1)
1/3 
Median of the 
comparator group
Upper quartile of the 
comparator group 0 14.583 58.33
EPS
(2)
1/3 25.06p 29.32p 0 14.583 58.33
Cash conversion 1/3 71% 101% 0 14.583 58.33
Total 100% 0 43.75 175
25% of award 100% of award
(1)  TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group, with vesting subject to satisfactory financial performance as determined by the Committee.
(2)   The Committee takes into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets for an award:
 • Budget (the setting of which is a robust and transparent process).
 – Company budget for FY16 and the expectations for performance;
 – Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award;
 – Market conditions and visibility of future trading.
 • FY16 threshold and maximum range around this target was -/+ 4% respectively.
 •  Threshold and maximum ongoing growth expectations for years two and three set around a fixed range, currently RPI+4% to RPI+12% per annum.  
The initial targets assume RPI of 3% per annum. The final threshold and maximum figures will be adjusted to reflect the actual RPI once known.
 • Analyst forecasts. 76 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
The Committee reviewed the Group Chairman’s fee during FY15 and determined that it should increase by 2.0% for FY16. This is in line  
with the pay review for other employees in the Company. 
The Board reviewed the fees for the other non-executive directors (NEDs) during FY15. They determined that their base fee should increase by 
2.0% for FY16 in line with other increases across the Company. In addition, to recognise the increased time commitment of the SID, the additional 
SID fee will move from £5,000 p.a. to £10,000 p.a. for FY16. There were no changes to Committee Chairman fees. All increases are effective from 
1 July 2015.
The table below shows the changes.
Position Fee for FY16 Fee for FY15
Chairman £244,800 £240,000
Base fee £53,550 £52,500
Committee Chairman £12,000 £12,000
SID £10,000 £5,000
GOVERNANCE AND APPROACH
SERVICE CONTRACTS 
A maximum 12-month notice period applies for executive directors. 
Current contract 
start date Unexpired term
Notice period 
from Company
Notice period 
from executive
Alistair Cox Sep 2007 Indefinite One year One year
Paul Venables May 2006 Indefinite One year Six months
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but are appointed to the Board under letters of appointment  
for an initial three-year period. They have agreed to annual retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Company’s annual general 
meeting and, with the exception of the Chairman, appointments can be terminated immediately by the Company. Letters of appointment are 
available for review from the Company Secretary and a pro forma letter of appointment can be viewed on the Company’s website, haysplc.com.
Non-executive director Date appointed to the Board Date of current letter of appointment Notice period
Alan Thomson 1 October 2010 14 July 2010 (Renewed) Three months
Paul Harrison 8 May 2007 31 August 2011 (Renewed) None
Victoria Jarman 1 October 2011 31 August 2011 (Renewed) None
Torsten Kreindl 1 June 2013 30 May 2013 (Renewed) None
Richard Smelt 15 November 2007 31 August 2011 (Renewed) None
Pippa Wicks 1 January 2012 30 November 2011 (Renewed) None
Peter Williams 24 February 2015 24 February 2015 None
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
MEMBERS AND ATTENDEES
The table below shows the members and attendees of the Remuneration Committee during 2015.
Remuneration Committee members Position Comments
Paul Harrison Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent
William Eccleshare Member from 24 November 2004 to 12 November 2014 Independent
Victoria Jarman Member from 1 October 2011 Independent
Torsten Kreindl Member from 1 June 2013 Independent
Richard Smelt Member from 15 November 2007 Independent
Pippa Wicks Member from 1 January 2012 Independent
Peter Williams Member from 24 February 2015 Independent STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 77
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Board has delegated to the Committee, 
under agreed Terms of Reference, responsibility 
for the remuneration policy and for determining 
specific packages for the executive directors, 
the Chairman and other senior executives. 
The Company consults with key shareholders 
in respect of remuneration policy and the 
introduction of new incentive arrangements. 
The Terms of Reference for the Committee 
are available on the Company’s website, 
haysplc.com, and from the Company 
Secretary at the registered office.
MEETINGS IN 2015
The Committee normally meets at least  
four times per year. During 2015, it formally 
met three times as well as having ongoing 
dialogue via email or telephone discussion. 
The meetings principally discussed the 
following key issues and activities:
• A review of the basic pay, bonus and PSP 
awards of the executive directors and other 
senior executives;
• Consideration of the appropriateness  
of the existing arrangements for the 2016 
financial year;
• A review of the reward strategy in the 
context of Group risk; 
• Consideration of the relationship between 
executive reward and the reward structures 
in place for other Group employees;
• Consideration of the introduction of 
clawback into the executive’s incentive 
arrangements following the issue of the 
Code; and
• A review of the Committee’s Terms of 
Reference.
ADVISERS TO THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
The Committee has continued to engage  
the services of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC) as its independent adviser, who were 
appointed in 2014 following a formal tender 
process. During the financial year, PwC 
advised the Committee on all aspects of 
remuneration policy for executive directors 
and members of the Management Board. 
PwC also provided advice to the Company  
in relation to corporate tax, indirect tax and 
legal services. This work is carried out by an 
entirely separate group within PwC and is not 
felt to be in conflict with the independence 
and objectivity of the work carried out for  
the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice 
received was objective and independent. 
PwC is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultant’s group and the voluntary code  
of conduct of that body is designed to ensure 
objective and independent advice is given  
to Remuneration Committees.
The total fee for 2015 in relation to Committee 
work was £121,850 excluding VAT. While  
fee estimates are generally required for  
each piece of work, fees are calculated based 
on time, with hourly rates in line with the  
level of expertise and seniority of the  
adviser concerned.
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Committee seeks to maintain an active 
and productive dialogue with investors on 
developments in the remuneration aspects  
of corporate governance generally and any 
changes to the Company’s executive pay 
arrangements in particular. It is felt that the 
voting outcomes at the 2014 AGM indicated 
strong support for the current remuneration 
approach but the Committee will continue to 
keep this under review as corporate 
governance and regulatory requirements 
develop as well as to ensure that the 
remuneration policy remains appropriate  
for Hays future business. The Committee will 
consult shareholders on any material changes 
to its remuneration structure or approach.
CONSIDERING RISK
Each year, the Committee considers the 
executive remuneration structure in the  
light of its key areas of risk. The summary 
table on pages 64 and 65 indicates how  
the remuneration policy takes into account 
these risks. The Committee takes into 
consideration whether the achievement  
of objectives and any payment from plans 
have taken into account the overall risk  
profile of the Company when it evaluates  
the executives’ performance. 
GENERAL GOVERNANCE
The Directors’ Report on Remuneration has 
been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 
to The Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013, the revised 
provisions of the Code and the Listing Rules.
By order of the Board
DOUG EVANS
COMPANY SECRETARY
27 August 2015
Remuneration Committee attendees Position Comments
Alan Thomson Group Chairman and standing attendee by invitation Independent upon appointment on 1 October 2010.
Alistair Cox Chief Executive Attends by invitation but does not participate in 
any discussion about his own reward.
The Group HR Director and Group Head of Reward 
attend by invitation as executives responsible for 
advising on the remuneration policy. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
PwC Committee’s independent adviser. Attend by invitation. 
No person is present during any discussion relating to his or her own remuneration. 78 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements  
in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each  
financial year. Under that law the directors  
are required to prepare the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and they 
have elected to prepare the parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair  
view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period.
In preparing the parent Company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting 
policies;
• present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position  
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Board confirms to the best of its 
knowledge that: 
• the Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; 
• the Strategic Report, including any matters 
incorporated by reference in the Directors’ 
Report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks  
and uncertainties that they face; and
• the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
ALISTAIR COX
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
PAUL VENABLES
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
27 August 2015 OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HAYS PLC
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2015 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheets, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
GOING CONCERN 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement contained within the Directors’ Report that the Group  
is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements  
is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may  
cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as  
a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s  
ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
In addition to the risks which we identified in the previous year’s 
financial statements, following the acquisition of Veredus Corporation 
in the current year we have identified an additional risk in relation  
to the acquisition accounting. 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below  
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
DEBTOR AND ACCRUED INCOME RECOVERABILITY
The recoverability of trade receivables, accrued income and  
the level of provisions for bad debts are considered to be a 
significant risk due to the pervasive nature of these balances to 
the financial statements, and the importance of cash collection 
with reference to the working capital management of the 
business. At 30 June 2015, the total receivables and accrued 
income balances net of provisions included in note 17 was  
£558.9 million. 
Refer to note 17 to the financial statements for further detail. 
We have: 
• challenged management regarding the level and ageing of receivables 
and accrued income, along with the consistency and appropriateness of 
receivables and accrued income provisioning by assessing recoverability 
with reference to cash received in respect of debtors and billings raised 
against accrued income. In addition we have considered the Company’s 
previous experience of bad debt exposure, the individual counterparty 
credit risk, the level of provision held by other recruitment businesses 
and the general economic environment in each jurisdiction;
• critically assessed the recoverability of overdue unprovided debt with 
reference to the historical levels of bad debt expense and credit profile 
of the counterparties; 
• tested these balances on a sample basis through agreement to post 
period end invoicing, post period end cash receipt or agreement to the 
terms of the contract in place, as appropriate; and
• considered the consistency of judgments regarding the recoverability 
of trade receivables and accrued income made year on year to consider 
whether there is evidence of management bias through discussion with 
management on their rationale and obtaining evidence to support 
judgment areas.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 79
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
VEREDUS ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING
There are three key audit judgments arising from  
the acquisition of 80% of the shareholding in Veredus 
Corporation:
• assessment of whether the Group has obtained control of 
Veredus, considering the specific requirements of IFRS 10 
‘Consolidated Financial statements’;
• assessment of the appropriateness of the fair value of the 
deferred consideration of £8.6 million. This is judgmental  
as it requires management to make an estimate of future 
earnings of Veredus; and
• assessment of the reasonableness of the fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised in 
accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. The fair  
value of the net assets acquired, intangible assets, and  
goodwill recognised in the financial statements are 
£10.0 million, £3.0 million and £34.3 million respectively. 
Refer to note 32 to the financial statements for further detail. 
We have:
• reviewed the acquisition agreement, specifically considering the  
rights relating to voting and the share of profits and the manner in 
which the option to acquire the remaining 20% can be executed;
• agreed the up-front cash consideration to bank statements;
• challenged the reasonableness of the forecast future earnings of 
Veredus by comparison to historical performance and assumptions 
regarding future outlook to external macroeconomic data;
• used Deloitte Valuation experts to assist with challenging and 
benchmarking the key assumptions made by management in 
determining the fair value of the intangibles acquired and the residual 
goodwill arising on the transaction; and 
• reviewed the disclosures included in the financial statements with 
reference to the requirements of IFRS 3.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The key risks on revenue recognition are: 
• cut-off where revenue is not recognised in line with Group 
policy, which is to recognise revenue associated with temporary 
placements over the period that temporary workers are 
provided, and permanent placements on the start date; and
• the presentation of temporary placements where Hays acts as 
a principal and revenue is recognised and presented on a gross 
rather than a net basis.
The risks noted above in relation to revenue are areas that can 
involve management judgment, therefore they are considered  
to be significant risks.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements for further detail on 
the accounting policies adopted.
We have: 
• assessed the design and implementation of key controls around all 
streams of revenue recognised; 
• considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off 
adjustments processed by considering the start date of permanent 
placements and the term of a temporary placement with reference  
to the year end date;
• evaluated whether revenue has been recognised in accordance with 
IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing details 
of the Group revenue recognition policy, the application of this, and  
any significant new contracts; and
• confirmed that all material temporary worker contractual 
arrangements where Hays acts as a principal and maintains the 
majority of the risk and rewards associated with the underlying 
agreement have been recognised and presented on a gross revenue 
basis in the financial statements.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT
The total goodwill balance at 30 June 2015 was £198.4 million.
Management is required to carry out an annual impairment  
test. This process is complex and highly judgmental given the 
indefinite nature of the goodwill. It is based on assumptions 
about future growth and discount rates, which can be sensitive 
particularly in certain jurisdictions where the growth rates  
are typically linked to individual country GDP and country  
wage inflation. 
Therefore, a risk exists that goodwill is overstated on the balance 
sheet should any judgments or assumptions be considered 
inappropriate.
Refer to note 13 to the financial statements for further detail. 
We have: 
• performed a detailed review and challenge of the models used 
including the macroeconomic assumptions used;
• compared key assumptions (including discount rates and growth rates) 
used across the Group used in the model to external data and where 
possible, to information provided by Deloitte Valuations experts;
• assessed the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by 
comparison to historical performance and future outlook;
• performed sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, including discount 
rates adopted; and
• performed a detailed review and challenge of the disclosures in respect 
of impairments and impairment testing adopted by management.
80 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
PENSION ACCOUNTING
Pension accounting is complex and contains areas of significant 
judgment, notably the discount and inflation rates used in  
the valuation of the net liability. Therefore, a risk exists that 
inappropriate rates are used resulting in an inaccurate pension 
valuation at year end.
The net pension liability balance at 30 June 2015 was 
£58.7 million. The net pension liability recognised is lower  
than the present value of future contributions to fund the 
existing deficit.
Refer to note 21 to the financial statements for further detail.
We have: 
• assessed the actuarial assumptions (discount rate, inflation rates,  
and mortality assumptions) adopted by the Group for the valuation  
of its retirement benefit obligations, with specific focus on changes  
to demographic assumptions in the year;
• utilised internal specialists to consider these assumptions and 
benchmarked them against a relevant comparator Group; 
• reviewed the pension scheme liability. Whilst the scheme is currently 
in a net deficit position, the net pension liability recognised is lower 
than the present value of future contributions to fund the existing 
deficit. In order to assess whether an additional liability would need  
to be recognised, we reviewed the pension scheme trust documents 
to assess whether Hays has an unconditional right to any scheme 
surplus; and
• reviewed the disclosures made in note 21 and compared these to the 
requirements of IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 56.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the  
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF 
MATERIALITY
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it 
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or 
influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £7.4 million (2014: £7.0 million), which is approximately  
5% (2014: 5.3%) of profit before tax, and below 3% (2014: 3%) of equity. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in 
excess of £150,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting  
on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified 
when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
AN OVERVIEW OF THE 
SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 33 (2014: 32) locations.  
Of these, 19 (2014: 18) were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 14 (2014: 14) were subject to an 
audit of specified account balances/specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was 
based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s 
operations at those locations. These 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Group’s 
three reportable segments and account for 90% (2014: 90%) of the Group’s net fees and 92% (2014: 
98%) of profit before tax. The three key locations are Australia (Asia Pacific), Germany (CE&RoW) and  
UK (UK & Ireland) which account for 74% of net fees and 81% of profit before tax. Our audit work at the  
33 locations were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower 
than Group materiality and ranged from £1.2 million to £4.7 million (2014: £1.1 million to £4.4 million). 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures 
to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified  
account balances. 
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so  
that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the material 
locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years. During the 2015 audit, 
the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the UK, Germany and the USA. In addition, senior members of the 
audit team visited Spain, Portugal and France. In years when we do not visit a significant component  
we will include the component audit team in our team planning and risk briefing, discuss their risk 
assessment, participate in the close meeting and review documentation of the findings from their work.
90
3
7
92
1
7
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (%)
NET FEES (%)
Full scope audit
Agreed upon procedures
Head oce review
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 81 OPINION ON OTHER 
MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY 
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE 
ARE REQUIRED TO 
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACY OF 
EXPLANATIONS 
RECEIVED AND 
ACCOUNTING RECORDS
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our 
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of 
directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising 
from these matters.  
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ 
OTHER INFORMATION 
IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report  
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
OF DIRECTORS  
AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for  
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls  
and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT  
OF THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
STEPHEN GRIGGS (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR), FCA 
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITOR
LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM
27 August 2015
82 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED (In £s million) Note 2015 2014
Turnover 
Continuing operations 3,842.8 3,678.5 
Net fees
(1)
Continuing operations 4 764.2 724.9 
Operating profit from continuing operations 4 164.1 140.3 
Finance income 8 0.5 0.5 
Finance cost 8 (8.5) (8.5)
Profit before tax 156.1 132.3 
Tax 9 (50.7) (46.3)
Profit from continuing operations after tax 105.4 86.0 
Profit from discontinued operations 10 0.2 4.9 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Company 105.6 90.9 
Earnings per share from continuing operations
 – Basic 12 7.44p 6.13p 
 – Diluted 12 7.31p 6.00p 
Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 
 – Basic 12 7.46p 6.47p 
 – Diluted 12 7.33p 6.34p 
(1) Net fees comprise turnover less remuneration of temporary workers and other recruitment agencies.  
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 June
(In £s million) 2015 2014
Profit for the year 105.6 90.9 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (25.8) (21.8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6.3 1.2 
(19.5) (20.6)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation adjustments (31.3) (21.4)
Mark to market valuation of derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.4 
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax (50.7) (41.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year 54.9 49.3 
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent Company 54.9 49.3 
 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 83
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 June (In £s million) Note 2015 2014
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 198.4 170.6 
Other intangible assets 14 29.8 36.5 
Property, plant and equipment 15 15.6 17.6 
Deferred tax assets 16 36.4 35.1 
280.2 259.8 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 600.5 579.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 69.8 48.0 
670.3 627.3 
Total assets 950.5 887.1 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (478.7) (457.7)
Current tax liabilities (19.5) (18.6)
Bank loans and overdrafts 19 (0.5) (0.7)
Provisions 22 (3.0) (3.4)
Derivative financial instruments – (0.1)
(501.7) (480.5)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 19 (100.0) (110.0)
Acquisition liabilities (8.6) – 
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (58.7) (43.9)
Provisions 22 (11.9) (12.0)
(179.2) (165.9)
Total liabilities (680.9) (646.4)
Net assets 269.6 240.7 
Equity 
Called up share capital 23 14.7 14.7 
Share premium 24 369.6 369.6 
Capital redemption reserve 25 2.7 2.7 
Retained earnings 26 (138.2) (197.7)
Cumulative translation reserve 27 2.1 33.4 
Other reserves 28 18.7 18.0 
Total shareholders’ equity 269.6 240.7 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Hays plc, registered number 2150950, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on 27 August 2015.    
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
A R COX   P VENABLES
84 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 30 June (In £s million)
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Cumulative 
translation 
reserve
Other 
reserves Total
At 1 July 2014 14.7 369.6 2.7 (197.7) 33.4 18.0 240.7 
Currency translation adjustments – – – – (31.3) – (31.3)
Mark to market valuation of derivative financial instruments – – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes – – – (25.8) – – (25.8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – – 6.3 – – 6.3 
Net expense recognised in other comprehensive income – – – (19.5) (31.3) 0.1 (50.7)
Profit for the year – – – 105.6 – – 105.6 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 86.1 (31.3) 0.1 54.9 
Dividends paid – – – (37.9) – – (37.9)
Share-based payments – – – 10.5 – 0.4 10.9 
Tax on share-based payment transactions – – – 0.8 – – 0.8 
Other share movements – – – – – 0.2 0.2 
At 30 June 2015 14.7 369.6 2.7 (138.2) 2.1 18.7 269.6 
(In £s million)
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Cumulative 
translation 
reserve
Other 
reserves Total
At 1 July 2013 14.7 369.6 2.7 (244.3) 54.8 18.9 216.4 
Currency translation adjustments – – – – (21.4) – (21.4)
Mark to market valuation of derivative financial instruments – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes – – – (21.8) – – (21.8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – – 1.2 – – 1.2 
Net expense recognised in other comprehensive income – – – (20.6) (21.4) 0.4 (41.6)
Profit for the year – – – 90.9 – – 90.9 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 70.3 (21.4) 0.4 49.3 
Dividends paid – – – (35.1) – – (35.1)
Share-based payments – – – 10.1 – (1.7) 8.4 
Tax on share-based payment transactions – – – 1.3 – – 1.3 
Other share movements – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
At 30 June 2014 14.7 369.6 2.7 (197.7) 33.4 18.0 240.7 
Details of the Other reserves are explained in note 28.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 85
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 June 2015
for the year ended 30 June 2014 (In £s million) Note 2015 2014
Operating profit from continuing operations 164.1 140.3 
Adjustments for:
 Exceptional items (0.1) (0.2)
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.7 9.2 
 Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 13.7 12.9 
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.5 
 Net movements in provisions and other items (0.4) (2.0)
 Share-based payments 10.8 8.7 
32.7 29.1 
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 196.8 169.4 
Movement in working capital:
Increase in receivables (53.0) (32.6)
Increase in payables 45.9 38.6 
(7.1) 6.0 
Cash generated by operations 189.7 175.4 
Pension scheme deficit funding (14.0) (13.5)
Income taxes paid (43.6) (59.3)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 132.1 102.6 
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (7.8) (5.7)
Proceeds from sales of business and related assets 0.2 0.1 
Purchase of intangible assets (4.3) (6.1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (35.7) – 
Cash paid in respect of acquisitions made in previous years (1.6) (0.3)
Interest received 0.5 0.5 
Net cash used in investing activities (48.7) (11.5)
Financing activities
Interest paid (5.7) (8.4)
Equity dividends paid (37.9) (35.1)
Proceeds from exercise of share options 1.8 0.6 
Decrease in bank loans and overdrafts (10.2) (34.5)
Net cash used in financing activities (52.0) (77.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 31.4 13.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33 48.0 40.0 
Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (9.6) (5.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33 69.8 48.0 
86 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 June 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 
Hays plc is a Company incorporated in the 
United Kingdom and registered in England 
and Wales and its registered office is 250 
Euston Road, London NW1 2AF.
The Consolidated Financial Statements  
have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) and IFRS Interpretation Committee 
interpretations (IFRICs) as adopted by the 
European Union and therefore comply with 
Article 4 of the European Union International 
Accounting Standard (IAS) Regulation. 
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
The Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared on the basis of the accounting 
policies and methods of computation 
applicable for the year ended 30 June 2015. 
These accounting policies are consistent with 
those applied in the preparation of the 
accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 
with the exception of the following new 
accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations which were mandatory for 
accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014.
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
(EU adoption from 1 January 2014)
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (EU adoption 
from 1 January 2014)
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other 
Entities (EU adoption from 1 January 2014)
• IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 
(amendments) Investment Entities 
(effective 1 January 2014)
• IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial 
Statements (EU adoption from  
1 January 2014)
• IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures (EU adoption from  
1 January 2014)
• IAS 32 (amendment) Presentation – 
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities (effective 1 January 2014)
• IAS 36 (amendment) Recoverable Amount 
Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
(effective 1 January 2014)
• IFRIC 21 (interpretation) Levies (effective  
1 January 2014)
There have been no alterations made to the 
accounting policies as a result of considering 
all other IFRS and IFRIC amendments and 
interpretations that became effective during 
the financial year, as these were either not 
material to the Group’s operation, or were 
not relevant.
The Group has not yet adopted certain new 
standards, amendments and interpretations 
to existing standards, which have been 
published but which are only effective for  
our accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2015. These new pronouncements are 
listed as follows:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective 
1 January 2018) 
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts and 
Customer (effective 1 January 2017)
• IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendment) 
Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures (effective from 1 January 2016)
• IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 
(effective 1 January 2016)
• IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendment) 
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation (effective 
1 January 2016)
• IAS 1 (amendments) Presentation of 
Financial Statements (effective from 
1 January 2016)
• IAS 19 (amendments) Employee Benefits 
(EU adoption from 1 February 2015)
• IAS 27 (amendments) Equity Method in 
Separate Financial Statements (effective 
from 1 January 2016)
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 
(EU adoption from 1 February 2015)
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2013 
(EU adoption from 1 January 2015)
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 
(effective 1 January 2016)
The directors are currently evaluating the 
impact of the adoption of these standards, 
amendments and interpretations.
The Group’s principal accounting policies 
adopted in the presentation of these  
financial statements are set out below and 
have been consistently applied to all the 
periods presented.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
adopted for use in the European Union and 
therefore comply with Article 4 of the  
EU IAS Regulation.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared on the historical cost basis 
with the exception of financial instruments. 
Financial instruments have been recorded  
on a fair-value basis.
B GOING CONCERN
The Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6  
to 29. The financial position of the Group,  
its cash flows and liquidity position are 
described in the Financial Review on pages 
30 to 35. In addition, notes 18 and 19 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements include 
details of the Group’s treasury activities, 
long-term funding arrangements and 
exposure to financial risk.
The Group has sufficient financial resources 
which, together with internally generated 
cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient 
sources of liquidity to fund its current 
operations, including its contractual and 
commercial commitments and any proposed 
dividends. Therefore the Group is well placed 
to manage its business risks.
After making enquiries the directors have 
formed the judgment that at the time of 
approving the Consolidated Financial 
Statements there is a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, the 
directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
C BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the 
date on which power to control is transferred 
to the Group. They are deconsolidated from 
the date on which control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is  
used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries by the Group whereby the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities are measured at their fair values  
at the date of acquisition. The excess of the  
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. The 
financial statements consolidate the accounts 
of Hays plc and all of its subsidiaries. The 
results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed 
during the year are included from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the 
effective date of disposal as appropriate.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated  
on consolidation.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 87
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
D TURNOVER
Turnover is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable and 
represents amounts receivable for goods  
and services provided in the normal course  
of business, net of discounts, VAT and other 
sales-related taxes. 
Turnover arising from the placement of 
permanent candidates is recognised at the 
time the candidate commences full-time 
employment. Provision is made for the 
expected cost of meeting obligations where 
employees do not work for the specified 
contractual period.
Turnover arising from temporary placements 
is recognised over the period that temporary 
workers are provided. Where the Group is 
acting as a principal, turnover represents  
the amounts billed for the services of the 
temporary workers, including the remuneration 
costs of the temporary workers. 
Where Hays acts as principal in arrangements 
that invoice on behalf of other recruitment 
agencies, turnover represents amounts 
invoiced and collected on behalf of other 
recruitment agencies, including arrangements 
where no commission is directly receivable 
by the Group.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, 
turnover represents commission receivable 
relating to the supply of temporary workers 
and does not include the remuneration costs 
of the temporary workers.
E NET FEES 
Net fees represent turnover less the 
remuneration costs of temporary workers for 
temporary assignments and remuneration  
of other recruitment agencies. For the 
placement of permanent candidates, net  
fees are equal to turnover.
F EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items as disclosed on the face  
of the Consolidated Income Statement  
are items which due to their size and non-
recurring nature have been classified 
separately in order to draw them to the 
attention of the reader of the financial 
statements and to show the underlying 
profits of the Group. 
G FOREIGN CURRENCIES
On consolidation, the tangible and intangible 
assets and liabilities of subsidiaries 
denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated into sterling at the rates ruling at 
the balance sheet date. Income and expense 
items are translated into sterling at average 
rates of exchange for the period. Any 
exchange differences which have arisen from 
an entity’s investment in a foreign subsidiary, 
including long-term loans, are recognised as 
a separate component of equity and are 
included in the Group’s translation reserve.
On disposal of a subsidiary, any amounts 
transferred to the translation reserve  
are included in the calculation of profit  
and loss on disposal. All other translation 
differences are dealt with in the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate. 
H RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS
The expense of defined benefit pension 
schemes and other post-retirement 
employee benefits is determined using the 
projected-unit credit method and charged  
to the Consolidated Income Statement as an 
expense, based on actuarial assumptions 
reflecting market conditions at the beginning 
of the financial year. All remeasurement gains 
and losses are recognised immediately in 
reserves and reported in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income in the 
period in which they occur. Past service 
costs/curtailments are recognised 
immediately in the Consolidated Income 
Statement to the extent that benefits have 
vested or, if not vested, on a straight-line 
basis over the period until the benefits vest.
The Group has chosen under IFRS 1 to 
recognise in retained earnings all cumulative 
remeasurement gains and losses as at  
1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. 
The Group has chosen to recognise all 
remeasurement gains and losses arising 
subsequent to 1 July 2004 in reserves and 
reported in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised  
past service cost, and as reduced by the fair 
value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting 
from this calculation is limited to past service 
cost, plus the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contribution 
to the scheme.
Payments to defined contribution schemes 
are charged as an expense in the Consolidated 
Income Statement as they fall due.
I SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The fair value of all share-based 
remuneration that is assessed upon market-
based performance criteria is determined  
at the date of grant and recognised as  
an expense in the Consolidated Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis over  
the vesting period, taking account of the 
estimated number of shares that will vest.
The fair value of all share-based remuneration 
that is assessed upon non-market-based 
performance criteria is determined at the 
date of the grant and recognised as an 
expense in the Consolidated Income 
Statement over the vesting period, based on 
the number of shares that are expected to 
vest. The number of shares that are expected 
to vest is adjusted accordingly to the 
satisfaction of the performance criteria at 
each period end.
The fair values are determined by use of the 
relevant valuation models. All share-based 
remuneration is equity settled. 
J BORROWING COSTS
Interest costs are recognised as an expense 
in the Consolidated Income Statement in  
the period in which they are incurred. 
Arrangement fees incurred in respect of 
borrowings are amortised over the term  
of the agreement.
K TAXATION
The tax expense comprises both current  
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable 
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from 
net profit as reported in the Consolidated 
Income Statement because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current 
tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all 
temporary differences, at rates that are 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets  
are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which to offset the deductible 
temporary differences.
Temporary differences arise where there is a 
difference between the accounting carrying 
value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and 
the amount attributed to that asset or liability 
for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted 
earnings of subsidiaries and associates  
where the Group is unable to control the 
timing of the distribution, and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will reverse  
in the future.
88 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED L GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents 
the excess of purchase consideration less  
the fair value of the identifiable tangible and 
intangible assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and 
reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets 
are grouped at the lowest level for which 
there are separately identifiable cash flows, 
known as cash-generating units (CGUs). Any 
impairment is recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated Income Statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a business the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the 
date of transition to IFRS (1 July 2004) has 
been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts, subject to being tested for 
impairment at that date. Goodwill arising on 
acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was written 
off direct to reserves under UK GAAP. This 
goodwill has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent 
profit or loss on disposal.
M INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets acquired as part of a 
business combination are stated in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair  
value as at the date of acquisition less 
accumulated amortisation and any provision 
for impairment. The directors review 
intangible assets for indications of 
impairment annually.
Internally generated intangible assets are 
stated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet  
at the directly attributable cost of creation  
of the asset, less accumulated amortisation. 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-
line basis over their estimated useful lives  
up to a maximum of 10 years. Software 
incorporated into major ERP implementations 
that support the recruitment process and 
financial reporting process is amortised over 
a life of up to seven years. Other software is 
amortised between three and five years.
N PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is recorded  
at cost, net of depreciation and any provision 
for impairment. Depreciation is provided on a 
straight-line basis over the anticipated useful 
working lives of the assets, after they have 
been brought into use, at the following rates:
Freehold land 
– No depreciation is provided
Freehold buildings 
– At rates varying between 2% and 10%
Leasehold properties 
–  The cost is written off over the unexpired 
term of the lease
Plant and machinery 
– At rates varying between 5% and 33%
Fixtures and fittings 
– At rates varying between 10% and 25%
O TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables are measured  
at fair value after appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts have been 
recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement where there is objective evidence 
that the asset is impaired.
P CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise  
cash-in-hand and current balances with 
banks and similar institutions, which are 
readily convertible to known amounts of  
cash and which are subject to insignificant 
risk of changes in value.
Q TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are measured at fair value.
R BANK BORROWINGS
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts 
are recorded at the amount of the proceeds 
received, net of direct-issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums 
payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct-issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accrual basis in the Consolidated Income 
Statement using the effective interest rate 
method and are added to the carrying 
amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which 
they arise.
S DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group uses certain derivative financial 
instruments to reduce its exposure to interest 
rate movements. The Group does not hold  
or use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments that are designated  
and effective as hedges of future cash flows 
are recognised directly in equity and any 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125%  
for hedge effectiveness, in accordance  
with IAS 39, and any relationship which has 
effectiveness outside this range is deemed  
to be ineffective and hedge accounting  
is suspended.
The fair values of interest rate swaps 
represent the replacement costs calculated 
using observable market rates of interest  
and exchange. The fair value of long-term 
borrowing is calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at observable 
market rates.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised  
in the Consolidated Income Statement in  
the same period in which the hedged item 
affects net income.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued 
when a hedging instrument expires or is  
sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time 
any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument recognised in equity is either 
retained in equity until the firm commitment 
or forecasted transaction occurs, or where a 
hedge transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, is immediately credited or expensed  
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
T LEASES
Leases where a significant portion of risks 
and rewards of ownership are retained by  
the lessor are classified as operating leases 
by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases  
are charged to the Consolidated Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis over  
the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an 
incentive to enter into an operating lease  
are recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
U PROVISIONS
A provision is recognised when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of a past event for which it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will  
be required to settle the obligation and when 
the amount can be reliably estimated. If the 
effect is material, provisions are determined 
by discounting the expected future cash 
flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects the 
current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the liability.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 89 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The main areas of judgement in revenue recognition relate to (i) cut-off as revenue is recognised for permanent placements on the day a 
candidate starts work and temporary placement income over the duration of the placement; and (ii) the recognition of temporary contractual 
arrangements where Hays acts on a gross basis rather than a net basis. Turnover and Net fees are described in note 1 (d) and (e) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. In performing these tests, assumptions are made in respect of future growth rates and the 
discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows of income-generating units. These assumptions are set out in note 13 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
PENSION ACCOUNTING 
Under IAS 19 revised ‘Employee Benefits’, the Group has recognised a pension deficit of £58.7 million (2014: £43.9 million). A number of 
assumptions have been made in determining the pension deficit and these are described in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PROVISIONS IN RESPECT OF RECOVERABILITY OF TRADE RECEIVABLES
As described in note 17, provisions for impairment of trade receivables have been made. In reviewing the appropriateness of these provisions, 
consideration has been given to the ageing of the debt and the potential likelihood of default, taking into account current economic conditions.
ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING
Following the acquisition of 80% of the shareholding of Veredus Corp. the Group has considered the specific requirements of IFRS 10 including 
the application of the substance principle; the fair value of deferred consideration consequently recognised; and the assessment of the fair value 
of the assets acquired. These are set out in note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
IFRS 8 OPERATING SEGMENTS 
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed 
by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segment and to assess their performance.
As a result, the Group continues to segment the business into three regions, Asia Pacific, Continental Europe & Rest of World, and United 
Kingdom & Ireland. There is no material difference between the segmentation of the Group’s turnover by geographic origin and destination.
The Group’s continuing operations comprise one class of business, that of qualified, professional and skilled recruitment.
NET FEES AND OPERATING PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
The Group’s Management Board, which is regarded as the chief operating decision maker, uses net fees by segment as its measure of revenue 
in internal reports, rather than use turnover. This is because net fees exclude the remuneration of temporary workers, and payments to other 
recruitment agencies where the Group acts as principal, which are not considered relevant in allocating resources to segments. The Group’s 
Management Board considers net fees for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources. The Group does not report items below 
operating profit by segment in its internal management reporting. The full detail of these items can be seen in the Group Consolidated Income 
Statement on page 83. The reconciliation of turnover to net fees can be found in note 5.
(In £s million) 2015 2014
Net fees from continuing operations
Asia Pacific 178.5 173.9 
Continental Europe & Rest of World 313.8 305.0 
United Kingdom & Ireland 271.9 246.0 
764.2 724.9 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Operating profit from continuing operations
Asia Pacific 49.7 49.7 
Continental Europe & Rest of World 68.7 64.4 
United Kingdom & Ireland 45.7 26.2 
164.1 140.3 
90 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NET TRADE RECEIVABLES
For the purpose of monitoring performance and allocating resources from a balance sheet perspective, the Group’s Management Board 
monitors trade receivables net of provisions for impairments only on a segment by segment basis. These are monitored on a constant currency 
basis for comparability through the year. These are shown below and reconciled to the totals as shown in note 17.
(In £s million)
As reported
internally
Foreign
exchange 2015
As reported
internally
Foreign
exchange 2014
Net trade receivables
Asia Pacific 55.1 (6.0) 49.1 69.6 (5.6) 64.0 
Continental Europe & Rest of World 185.7 (18.8) 166.9 184.0 (12.4) 171.6 
United Kingdom & Ireland 153.8 (0.1) 153.7 146.2 (0.6) 145.6 
394.6 (24.9) 369.7 399.8 (18.6) 381.2 
5 OPERATING PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
The following costs are deducted from turnover to determine net fees from continuing operations:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Turnover 3,842.8 3,678.5 
Remuneration of temporary workers (2,941.5) (2,805.8)
Remuneration of other recruitment agencies (137.1) (147.8)
Net fees 764.2 724.9 
Operating profit is stated after charging the following items to net fees of £764.2 million (2014: £724.9 million):
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Staff costs (note 7) 440.6 424.4 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.7 9.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets 13.7 12.9 
Operating lease rentals payable (note 31) 30.8 31.2 
Impairment loss on trade receivables 2.5 3.4 
Auditor remuneration (note 6)
– for statutory audit services 0.9 0.9 
– for other services 0.4 0.3 
Other external charges 102.5 102.3 
600.1 584.6 
6 AUDITOR REMUNERATION
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Fees payable to the Company's Auditor for the audit of the Company's annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company's Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.7
Total audit fees 0.9 0.9
Half year review pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Tax and other services 0.3 0.2
Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.3
Other services, principally relating to technical accounting advice, totalled £33,000 (2014: £59,000). No services were performed pursuant  
to contingent fee arrangements. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 91 7 STAFF COSTS 
The aggregate staff remuneration (including executive directors) was as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Wages and salaries 370.8 357.4
Social security costs 46.4 46.1
Other pension costs 12.6 12.2
Share-based payments 10.8 8.7
440.6 424.4
Average number of persons employed (including executive directors):
(Number) 2015 2014 
Continuing operations:
Asia Pacific 1,577 1,435
Continental Europe & Rest of World 3,504 3,067
United Kingdom & Ireland 3,742 3,494
8,823 7,996
Closing number of persons employed (including executive directors):
(Number) 2015 2014 
Continuing operations:
Asia Pacific 1,639 1,458
Continental Europe & Rest of World 3,643 3,124
United Kingdom & Ireland 3,741 3,655
9,023 8,237
8 FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COST
FINANCE INCOME
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Interest on bank deposits 0.5 0.5 
FINANCE COST
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (4.6) (5.5)
Interest unwind on acquisition liability (0.4) – 
Pension Protection Fund levy (0.5) (0.4)
Net interest on pension obligations (3.0) (2.6)
(8.5) (8.5)
Net finance cost (8.0) (8.0)
92 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 INCOME TAXES RELATING TO CONTINUING OPERATIONS
The tax (expense)/credit for the year is comprised of the following:
CURRENT TAX
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Current tax expense in respect of the current year (49.6) (42.5)
Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years (0.2) (2.8)
(49.8) (45.3)
DEFERRED TAX
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Deferred tax credit in respect of the current year 0.2 0.8 
Adjustments to deferred tax attributable to changes in tax rates and laws (0.8) (1.8)
Adjustments to deferred tax in relation to prior years (0.3) – 
(0.9) (1.0)
Total income tax expense recognised in the current year relating to continuing operations (50.7) (46.3)
The income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Profit before tax from continuing operations 156.1 132.3 
Income tax expense calculated at 20.75% (2014: 22.50%) (32.4) (29.8)
Net effect of items that are non-taxable/(non-deductible) in determining taxable profit (3.7) 1.3 
Effect of unused tax losses not recognised as deferred tax assets – (1.5)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (13.8) (11.6)
Effect on deferred tax balances due to the changes in income tax rates (0.8) (1.8)
Effect of share-based payment charges and share options 0.5 (0.1)
(50.2) (43.5)
Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years (0.2) (2.8)
Adjustments to deferred tax in relation to prior years (0.3) – 
Income tax expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement relating to continuing operations (50.7) (46.3)
Effective tax rate for the year on continuing operations 32.5% 35.0%
The tax rate used for the 2015 and 2014 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 20.75% (2014: 22.50%) payable by corporate entities  
in the United Kingdom on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
10 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement were as follows: 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Profit from discontinued operations – 5.0 
Profit before tax – 5.0 
Tax credit/(charge) 0.2 (0.1)
Profit from discontinued operations after tax 0.2 4.9 
The profit of £0.2 million arose from the write-back of tax provisions which in light of subsequent events were no longer required. In the prior 
year the profit of £4.9 million arose primarily from the write-back of provisions that were established when the Group completed the disposal  
of its non-core activities between March 2003 and November 2004 and were no longer required.
The cash outflows generated from discontinued operations were £0.3 million (2014: £2.0 million).
There were no cash inflows generated from discontinued operations (2014: £nil).  
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 93 11 DIVIDENDS 
The following dividends were paid by the Group and have been recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year:
2015
pence per
share
2015
£s million
2014
pence per
share
2014
£s million
Previous year final dividend 1.80 25.6 1.67 23.5 
Current year interim dividend 0.87 12.3 0.83 11.6 
37.9 35.1 
The following dividends have been paid/proposed by the Group in respect of the accounting year presented: 
2015
pence per
share
2015
£s million
2014
pence per
share
2014
£s million
Interim dividend (paid) 0.87 12.3 0.83 11.6 
Final dividend (proposed) 1.89 27.0 1.80 25.6 
2.76 39.3 2.63 37.2 
The final dividend for 2015 of 1.89 pence per share (£27.0 million) will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 November 2015  
and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2015. If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 13 November 2015 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on 9 October 2015. 
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Earnings
(£s million)
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(million)
Per share
amount
(pence)
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 105.4 1,416.4 7.44 
Dilution effect of share options – 24.5 (0.13)
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 105.4 1,440.9 7.31 
Discontinued operations:
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 0.2 1,416.4 0.01 
Dilution effect of share options – 24.5 – 
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 0.2 1,440.9 0.01 
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 105.6 1,416.4 7.46 
Dilution effect of share options – 24.5 (0.13)
Diluted earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 105.6 1,440.9 7.33 
For the year ended 30 June 2014
Earnings
(£s million)
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(million)
Per share
amount
(pence)
Continuing operations:
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 86.0 1,403.9 6.13 
Dilution effect of share options – 30.0 (0.13)
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 86.0 1,433.9 6.00 
Discontinued operations:
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 4.9 1,403.9 0.35 
Dilution effect of share options – 30.0 (0.01)
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 4.9 1,433.9 0.34 
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 90.9 1,403.9 6.47 
Dilution effect of share options – 30.0 (0.13)
Diluted earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 90.9 1,433.9 6.34 
The weighted average number of shares in issue for both years exclude shares held in treasury and shares held by the Hays plc Employee  
Share Trust. 
94 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 GOODWILL 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Cost
At 1 July 170.6 177.3 
Exchange adjustments (8.1) (6.7)
Additions during the year 35.9 – 
At 30 June 198.4 170.6 
Goodwill arising on business combinations is reviewed and tested on an annual basis or more frequently if there is indication that goodwill 
might be impaired. Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit (CGU), including 
goodwill, with the recoverable amount. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The additions during the year of £35.9 million relate primarily to the acquisition of Veredus Corp. a pure-play IT staffing company based in 
Florida USA.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are as follows:
Assumption How determined
Operating profit The operating profit is based on the latest one-year forecasts for the CGUs approved by the Group’s Management 
Board which are compiled using expectations of fee growth, consultant productivity and operating costs. The 
Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts approved by management  
and extrapolates cash flows in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rates and expected cash conversion rates.
Discount rates The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows range between 9.0% and 13.3% (2014: 13.0%) reflecting 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the country risks specific to the relevant CGUs. 
The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each of the Group’s operations is generally based on the weighted 
average cost of capital (WACC) adjusted for the risk-free rate for 10-year bonds issued by the government in the 
respective market. Where government bond rates contain a material component of credit risk, high-quality local 
corporate bond rates may be used.
These rates are adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities and where 
appropriate, the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company. In making this adjustment, inputs 
required are the equity market risk premium (that is the increased return required over and above a risk-free rate 
by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole) and the risk adjustment, beta, applied to reflect the risk  
of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
Growth rates The medium-term growth rates are based on management forecasts, which are consistent with a minimum 
average estimated growth rate of 5.0% (2014: 5.0%), reflecting a combination of both past experience and the 
macroeconomic environment, including GDP expectations driving fee growth.
The long-term growth rates are based on management forecasts, which are consistent with external sources of an 
average estimated growth rate of 2.0% (2014: 2.0%), reflecting a combination of GDP expectations and long-term 
wage inflation driving fee growth.
GDP growth is a key driver of our business, and is therefore a key consideration in developing long-term forecasts. 
Wage inflation is also an important driver of net fees as net fees are derived directly from the salary level of 
candidates placed into employment. Based on past experience a combination of these two factors is considered  
to be an appropriate basis for assessing long-term growth rates.
Management has determined that there has been no impairment to any of the CGUs and in respect of these a sensitivity analysis has been 
performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill. This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be possible by 
management. This included a change in the discount rate of up to 1% and changes in the long-term growth rate from Year 2 onwards between 
0% and 2% in absolute terms.
The sensitivity analysis shows no impairment would arise under each scenario for any of the CGUs.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Asia Pacific 19.1 18.8 
Continental Europe & Rest of World 86.2 58.7 
United Kingdom & Ireland 93.1 93.1 
198.4 170.6 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 95 14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Cost
At 1 July 91.2 87.7 
Exchange adjustments (1.1) (1.4)
Acquired 3.0 – 
Additions 4.3 6.1 
Disposals (4.2) (1.2)
At 30 June 93.2 91.2 
Amortisation
At 1 July 54.7 43.3 
Exchange adjustments (0.8) (0.8)
Charge for the year 13.7 12.9 
Disposals (4.2) (0.7)
At 30 June 63.4 54.7 
Net book value
At 30 June 29.8 36.5 
At 1 July 36.5 44.4 
Following the acquisition of Veredus Corp. during the year, an intangible asset of £3.0 million has been recognised in respect of the acquired 
Veredus brand. The asset, which represents its fair value, will be amortised on a straight-line basis over three years from the date of acquisition. 
All other intangible assets relate to computer software additions, and of the additions in the current year, £3.1 million relate to internally 
generated assets (2014: £4.1 million).
The estimated average useful life of the computer software related intangible assets is seven years (2014: seven years). Software incorporated 
into major ERP implementations is amortised on a straight-line basis over a life of up to seven years. Other software is amortised on a straight-
line basis between three and five years. 
There were no capital commitments at the year end (2014: £nil).
96 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(In £s million)
Freehold
properties
Leasehold
properties
(short)
Plant and
machinery
Fixtures and
fittings Total
Cost
At 1 July 2014 1.8 12.1 26.1 28.0 68.0 
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.2) (1.8) (1.5) (4.6)
Capital expenditure – 1.7 4.4 1.7 7.8 
Acquired – – – 0.2 0.2 
Reclassification (1.1) 1.6 1.1 (1.6) – 
Disposals – (1.8) (0.7) (4.2) (6.7)
At 30 June 2015 0.6 12.4 29.1 22.6 64.7 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2014 1.1 9.5 18.2 21.6 50.4 
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.9) (1.3) (1.2) (3.6)
Charge for the year – 1.3 5.1 2.3 8.7 
Acquired – – – 0.1 0.1 
Reclassification (0.5) 1.0 0.9 (1.4) – 
Disposals – (1.7) (0.7) (4.1) (6.5)
At 30 June 2015 0.4 9.2 22.2 17.3 49.1 
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 0.2 3.2 6.9 5.3 15.6 
At 1 July 2014 0.7 2.6 7.9 6.4 17.6 
There were no capital commitments as was the case in the prior year.
(In £s million)
Freehold
properties
Leasehold
properties
(short)
Plant and
machinery
Fixtures and
fittings Total
Cost
At 1 July 2013 1.9 12.5 32.1 30.1 76.6 
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.0) (1.3) (1.1) (3.5)
Capital expenditure – 1.1 2.5 2.1 5.7 
Disposals – (0.5) (7.2) (3.1) (10.8)
At 30 June 2014 1.8 12.1 26.1 28.0 68.0 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2013 1.0 9.4 21.1 22.8 54.3 
Exchange adjustments – (0.8) (1.0) (0.9) (2.7)
Charge for the year 0.1 1.4 5.3 2.4 9.2 
Disposals – (0.5) (7.2) (2.7) (10.4)
At 30 June 2014 1.1 9.5 18.2 21.6 50.4 
Net book value
At 30 June 2014 0.7 2.6 7.9 6.4 17.6 
At 1 July 2013 0.9 3.1 11.0 7.3 22.3 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 97 16 DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax assets in relation to:
(In £s million)
1 July
2014
(Charge)/
credit to 
Consolidated
Income
Statement
(Charge)/
credit to
other
comprehensive
income
(Charge)/
credit to
equity
Exchange
difference
30 June
2015
Accelerated tax depreciation 16.8 (3.3) – – – 13.5 
Retirement benefit obligation 8.8 – 2.9 – – 11.7 
Share-based payments 4.1 0.5 – (0.1) – 4.5 
Provisions 2.2 0.2 – – (0.3) 2.1 
Losses – 1.2 – – – 1.2 
Other short-term timing differences 3.2 0.5 – – (0.3) 3.4 
35.1 (0.9) 2.9 (0.1) (0.6) 36.4 
(In £s million)
1 July
2013
(Charge)/
credit to 
Consolidated
Income
Statement
(Charge)/
credit to
other
comprehensive
income
(Charge)/
credit to
equity
Exchange
difference
30 June
2014
Accelerated tax depreciation 16.7 0.4 – – (0.3) 16.8 
Retirement benefit obligation 8.3 (0.7) 1.2 – – 8.8 
Share-based payments 3.3 (0.5) – 1.3 – 4.1 
Provisions 2.5 (0.2) – – (0.1) 2.2 
Other short-term timing differences 3.4 – – – (0.2) 3.2 
34.2 (1.0) 1.2 1.3 (0.6) 35.1 
The UK deferred tax asset of £30.4 million (2014: £29.2 million) is recognised on the basis of the UK business performance in the year and  
the forecast approved by management. Other deferred tax assets of £4.7 million arise in the other jurisdictions in which the Group operate. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse. The United 
Kingdom Government announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 
1 April 2020. These changes have not been substantively enacted and have not therefore been included in the disclosure above. The impact 
of the future rate reductions will be accounted for to the extent that they are enacted at future balance sheet dates, however it is estimated 
that this will not have a material impact on the Group.
UNRECOGNISED DEDUCTIBLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES, UNUSED TAX LOSSES AND UNUSED TAX CREDITS
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax assets 
have been recognised are attributable to the following:
Tax losses (revenue in nature) 40.1 45.7 
Tax losses (capital in nature) 4.4 4.4 
44.5 50.1 
UNRECOGNISED TAXABLE TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS AND INTERESTS
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Taxable temporary differences in relation to investments in subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities  
have not been recognised are attributable to the following:
Foreign subsidiaries 3.8 3.0 
Tax thereon 0.2 0.2 
98 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Trade receivables 385.2 397.2 
Less provision for impairment (15.5) (16.0)
Net trade receivables 369.7 381.2 
Prepayments and accrued income 230.8 198.1 
600.5 579.3 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates to their fair value. The average credit period taken is 35 days 
(2014: 38 days).
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables not impaired is as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Not yet due 297.4 284.1 
Up to one month past due 55.7 77.9 
One to three months past due 16.6 19.2 
369.7 381.2 
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the Euro and the Australian Dollar. The sensitivity of a 1 cent 
change in the year end closing exchange rates in respect of the Euro and Australian Dollar would result in a £1.1 million and £0.2 million 
movement in trade receivables respectively.
The movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July 16.0 16.9 
Exchange movement (0.8) (0.5)
Charge for the year 2.5 3.4 
Uncollectable amounts written off (2.2) (3.8)
At 30 June 15.5 16.0 
The ageing of impaired trade receivables relates primarily to trade receivables over three months past due.
CREDIT RISK 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous 
experience, is evidence of a likely reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows. The Group reduces risk through its credit control process  
and by contractual arrangements with other recruitment agencies in situations where the Group invoices on their behalf. The Group’s exposure 
is spread over a large number of customers. 
The risk disclosures contained on page 34 within the Strategic Report form part of these financial statements. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 99 18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Cash at bank and in hand  69.8 48.0 
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 1.3% (2014: 0.8%). The average maturity of short-term deposits was one day  
(2014: one day). 
CREDIT RISK
Counterparty credit risk on liquid funds is closely monitored using the credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies to financial 
institutions. A credit limit is applied to each bank and deposits held are monitored against those limits. 
INTEREST RATE RISK PROFILE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents carry interest at floating rates based on local money market rates.
19 BANK LOANS AND OVERDRAFTS
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Bank loans 100.0 110.0 
Overdrafts 0.5 0.7 
100.5 110.7 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
A description of the Group’s treasury policy and controls is included in the Financial Review on page 33.
INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts. At 30 June 2015 the Group had drawn down 
£100 million (2014: £110 million) from its unsecured revolving credit facility. In 2011 the Group entered into interest rate derivatives to partially 
hedge this risk. The fair value of these derivatives at 30 June 2015 was £nil (2014: £0.1 million).
The interest rate profile of bank loans and overdrafts is as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Floating rate – sterling 100.5 110.7 
The floating rate liabilities comprise bank loans and unsecured overdrafts bearing interest at rates based on local market rates.
COMMITTED FACILITIES
The Group completed the refinancing of its five-year unsecured revolving credit facility on 23 April 2015. The new arrangement includes a 
reduction in the core debt facility from £300 million to £210 million and an extension in maturity to April 2020. The financial covenants remain 
unchanged and require the Group’s interest cover ratio to be at least 4:1 and its leverage ratio (net debt to EBITDA) to be no greater than 2.5:1. 
The interest rate of the facility is based on a ratchet mechanism with a margin payable over LIBOR in the range of 0.90% to 1.55%.
At 30 June 2015, £110 million of the committed facility was undrawn.
INTEREST RATES
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 
2015 2014 
Bank borrowings 2.5% 2.8%
For each 10 basis point fall or rise in the average LIBOR rate in the year there would be a reduction or increase in profit before tax by 
approximately £0.1 million.
100 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED MATURITIES OF BANK LOANS AND OVERDRAFTS
The maturity of borrowings are as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Within one year 0.5 0.7 
More than one year 100.0 110.0 
100.5 110.7 
FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND BANK LOANS AND OVERDRAFTS 
The fair value of financial assets and bank loans and overdrafts is not materially different to their book value due to the short-term maturity  
of the instruments, which are based on floating rates. 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Board’s priorities for free cash flow are to fund the Group’s investment and development, maintain a strong balance sheet and deliver  
a sustainable dividend at a level that is affordable and appropriate. The Board targets a dividend cover range of 2.0x to 3.0x, and remains 
committed to paying a sustainable and progressive dividend. Further details can be found in the Financial Review on page 33.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which is represented by cash and cash equivalents (note 18), bank loans and overdrafts 
(note 19) and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed  
in notes 23 to 28.
The Group is not restricted to any externally imposed capital requirements.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The Group did not have a material income statement exposure to foreign exchange gains or losses on monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at 30 June 2015. 
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and income statement translation exposure.
The Group’s operating profit exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the Euro and the Australian Dollar. The sensitivity 
of a 1 cent change in the average exchange rates for the year in respect of the Euro and Australian Dollar would result in a £0.6 million and  
£0.2 million change in operating profit respectively.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Current
Trade creditors 116.6 110.7 
Other tax and social security 66.2 72.6 
Other creditors 34.3 28.4 
Accruals 261.6 246.0 
478.7 457.7 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. The average credit period taken for trade 
purchases is 30 days (2014: 28 days).      
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 101 21 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK and in other countries including both defined benefit and defined 
contribution schemes. The Group’s principal schemes are operated within the UK where the Group operates one defined contribution scheme 
and two defined benefit schemes. The majority of overseas arrangements are either defined contribution or government-sponsored schemes 
and these arrangements are not material in the context of the Group results.
UK DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEME
The Group’s principal defined contribution retirement benefit scheme is the Hays Group Personal Pension Plan which is operated for all 
qualifying employees and is funded via an employee salary sacrifice arrangement, and for qualifying employees additional employer 
contributions. Employer contributions are in the range of 4% to 15% of pensionable salary depending on the level of employee contribution  
and seniority. 
The total cost charged to the Consolidated Income Statement of £6.2 million (2014: £5.9 million) represents employer’s contributions payable 
to the money purchase arrangements. Contributions of £0.5 million (2014: £0.5 million) were outstanding at the end of the year. The assets  
of the money purchase arrangements are held separately from those of the Group.
UK DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES
The Group’s principal defined benefit schemes are the Hays Pension Scheme and the Hays Supplementary Scheme both in the UK. The Hays 
Pension Scheme is a funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and death benefits to members. The Hays Supplementary 
Scheme is an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme for employee’s who were subject to HMRC’s earnings cap on pensionable 
salary. The Schemes were closed to future accrual from 30 June 2012 with pensions calculated up until the point of closure. The Schemes  
are governed by a trustee board, which is independent of the Group and is subject to full actuarial valuation on a triennial basis. 
The last formal actuarial valuation of the Hays Pension Scheme was performed at 30 June 2012 and quantified the deficit at c.£150 million.  
A revised deficit funding schedule was agreed with effect from 1 July 2012 which maintained the annual contribution at £13.1 million, subject  
to a 3% per annum fixed uplift over a period reduced to just under 10 years. During the year the Group made a contribution of £13.5 million to 
the Hays Pension Scheme (2014: £13.1 million) in accordance with the agreed deficit funding schedule. The cash contributions during the year 
mainly related to deficit funding payments.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market (investment) 
risk. The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity-specific or scheme-specific risks.
The net amount included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension 
schemes is as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (685.3) (612.3)
Less fair value of defined benefit scheme assets:  
Equities 131.8 120.5 
Bonds and gilts 277.2 267.8 
Absolute return funds 37.2 34.3 
Cash and LDI funds 159.1 132.9 
Real estate 21.3 12.9 
626.6 568.4 
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation  (58.7) (43.9)
Virtually all scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets. Real estate can be classified as Level 3 instruments.   
102 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The change in the present value of defined benefit obligations was: 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Change in benefit obligation
Opening defined benefit obligation at 1 July (612.3) (560.2)
Current service cost (1.3) (1.3)
Interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities (26.6) (26.5)
Net remeasurement gains – change in experience assumptions 11.2 – 
Net remeasurement losses – change in financial assumptions (74.5) (41.3)
Benefits and expenses paid 18.2 17.0 
Closing defined benefit obligation at 30 June (685.3) (612.3)
Analysis of defined benefit obligation
Plans that are wholly or partly funded (675.6) (602.1)
Plans that are wholly unfunded (9.7) (10.2)
Total (685.3) (612.3)
The defined benefit schemes liability comprises 72% (2014: 68%) in respect of deferred scheme participants and 28% (2014: 32%) in respect  
of retirees.
The weighted average duration of the UK defined benefit scheme liabilities at the end of the reporting period is 23.0 years (2014: 22.8 years).
The change in the fair value of defined benefit schemes assets was:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Change in the fair value of scheme assets 
Fair value of plan assets at 1 July 568.4 527.2 
Interest income on defined benefit scheme assets 24.9 25.2 
Return on scheme assets 37.5 19.5 
Employer contributions 14.0 13.5 
Benefits and expenses paid (18.2) (17.0)
Fair value of plan assets at 30 June 626.6 568.4 
The amount of deficit funding contributions which are expected to be paid to the scheme during the financial year to 30 June 2016 is 
£13.9 million. Following the closure of the Schemes at 30 June 2012 future service contributions are no longer payable. 
The net expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement comprised:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Net interest expense (1.7) (1.3)
Current service cost (1.3) (1.3)
Net expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (3.0) (2.6)
The net expense in the current and prior year was recognised as finance costs. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 103 21 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense) 37.5 19.5 
Actuarial remeasurement:
Net remeasurement loss – change in experience assumptions 11.2 – 
Net remeasurement losses – change in financial assumptions (74.5) (41.3)
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (25.8) (21.8)
A roll forward of the actuarial valuation of the Hays Pension Scheme to 30 June 2015 and a valuation of the Hays Supplementary Pension 
Scheme have been performed by an independent actuary, who is an employee of Hymans Robertson LLP.
The key assumptions used at 30 June 2015 are listed below.
2015 2014 
Discount rate 3.8% 4.4%
RPI inflation 3.3% 3.4%
CPI inflation 2.3% 2.4%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.2% 3.3%
Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.3% 2.4%
The discount rate has been constructed as a gilt yield of 2.8% per annum (2014: 3.5%) plus a credit spread on high-quality debt instruments  
of 1.0% per annum (2014: 0.9%). The gilt yield of 2.8% is the flat yield equivalent to valuing the liabilities of the gilt curve published by the  
Bank of England.
The RPI inflation assumption has been set as gilt market implied RPI appropriate to the duration of the liabilities (circa 23 years) less a 0.2% per 
annum inflation risk premium. This approach is consistent with last year.
The life expectancy assumptions have been calculated using Club Vita base tables and future improvements in line with the CMI 2011 model 
with a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% per annum and ‘non peaked’ short-term future improvements. On this basis a 65-year-old current 
pensioner has a life expectancy of 24.6 years and 25.9 years for males and females respectively.
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the Schemes liabilities at the year end is:
Change in
assumption
Impact on 
Schemes
Discount rate 0.5% £83m
RPI inflation 0.5% £52m
Assumed life expectancy at age 65 (rate of mortality) +1 year £21m
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that 
the change in assumptions would occur in isolation to one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
In presenting the above sensitivity analysis the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit 
credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability 
recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
104 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 PROVISIONS 
(In £s million) Property Other Total
At 1 July 2014 5.3 10.1 15.4 
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) (0.1)
Charged to income statement – 2.2 2.2 
Credited to income statement (2.2) – (2.2)
Utilised (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
At 30 June 2015 2.9 12.0 14.9 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Current 3.0 3.4 
Non-current 11.9 12.0 
14.9 15.4 
Property provisions are for rents and other related amounts payable on certain leased properties for periods in which they are not anticipated 
to be in use by the Group. The leases expire in periods up to 2015 and the amounts will be paid over this period.
Other provisions mainly relate to potential warranty claim liabilities arising as a result of the business disposals that were concluded in 2004, 
and deferred employee benefit provisions. 
Of these provisions, £3.0 million is expected to be paid in the next 12 months and it is not possible to estimate the timing of the payments for 
the other items.
23 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
CALLED UP, ALLOTTED AND FULLY PAID ORDINARY SHARES OF 1 PENCE EACH 
 
Share capital
number
(thousand)
Share
capital
£s million
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015  1,464,097 14.7 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Company is allowed to hold 10% of issued share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2015, the Company held 43.1 million (2014: 57.9 million) Hays plc shares in treasury.
24 SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 30 June 369.6 369.6 
25 CAPITAL REDEMPTION RESERVE 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 30 June 2.7 2.7 
26 RETAINED EARNINGS
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July (197.7) (244.3)
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes (25.8) (21.8)
Tax on items taken directly to reserves 7.1 2.5 
Profit for the year 105.6 90.9 
Dividends paid (37.9) (35.1)
Share-based payments 10.5 10.1 
At 30 June (138.2) (197.7)
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 105 27 CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION RESERVE
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July 33.4 54.8 
Currency translation adjustments (31.3) (21.4)
At 30 June 2.1 33.4 
28 OTHER RESERVES
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Own shares – (0.2)
Equity reserve 18.7 18.3 
Hedging reserve – (0.1)
18.7 18.0 
OTHER RESERVES – OWN SHARES
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July (0.2) (0.6)
Movement in own shares 0.2 0.4 
At 30 June – (0.2)
Investments in ‘own shares’ are held by an employee benefit trust to satisfy share awards made to employees. Dividends in respect of ‘own 
shares’ have been waived other than shares held as bare nominee for employees in respect of post-tax share awards. The number of shares 
held at 30 June 2015 is nil (2014: 458,019).
The ‘own shares’ reserve does not include the shares held in treasury as a result of the share buy-back programme. The share buy-back 
purchases are deducted from retained earnings. No share buy-backs were made during the year (2014: nil). 
OTHER RESERVES – EQUITY RESERVE
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July 18.3 20.0 
Share-based payments 0.4 (1.7)
At 30 June 18.7 18.3 
The equity reserve is generated as a result of IFRS 2 (Share-based payments).
OTHER RESERVES – HEDGING RESERVE
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
At 1 July (0.1) (0.5)
Mark to market valuation of derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.4 
At 30 June – (0.1)
The Group holds two interest rate swaps which exchange a fixed payment for a floating rate receipt on a total debt value of £10 million and 
have maturities of up to one year. Each of the interest rate swaps commenced in October 2011. These instruments are classified as Level 2 in the 
IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.
106 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
During the year, £10.8 million (2014: £8.7 million) was charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in relation to equity-settled  
share-based payments.
SHARE OPTIONS
At 30 June 2015 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Company’s Ordinary shares of 1 pence 
each under the Company’s share option schemes:
Number of
shares
Nominal
value of
shares
£
Subscription
price
pence/share
Date
normally
exercisable
Hays UK Sharesave Scheme  512,967 5,130 78 2015
1,307,259 13,073 88 2016
976,714 9,767 131 2017
1,423,323 14,233 142 2018
4,220,263 42,203
Hays International Sharesave Scheme  480,202 4,802 78 2015
782,123 7,821 88 2016
349,216 3,492 131 2017
419,944 4,199 142 2018
2,031,485 20,314
Total Sharesave options outstanding  6,251,748 62,517
The Hays International Sharesave Scheme is available to employees in Australia, New Zealand, Germany, the Republic of Ireland, Canada, Hong 
Kong, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2015
Number of
share 
options
(thousand)
2015
Weighted
average
exercise
price
(pence)
2014
Number of
share
options
(thousand)
2014
Weighted
average
exercise
price
(pence)
Sharesave
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,642 94 7,856 86 
Granted during the year 1,896 142 1,708 131 
Forfeited/cancelled during the year (882) 108 (1,039) 91 
Exercised during the year (2,318) 81 (631) 102 
Expired during the year (86) 106 (252) 92 
Outstanding at the end of the year 6,252 111 7,642 94 
Exercisable at the end of the year 993 78 338 112 
On 31 March 2015, 1.9 million Sharesave options were granted. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on that date  
is £0.7 million. In the prior year, 1.7 million Sharesave options were granted. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted  
in the prior year was £0.6 million.
The inputs into the valuation model (a binomial valuation model) are as follows:
Share price at grant 158 pence
Exercise price 142 pence
Expected volatility 32.0%
Expected life 3.34 years
Risk-free rate 0.80%
Expected dividends 1.80%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 107 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP) AND DEFERRED ANNUAL BONUS (DAB)
The PSP is designed to link reward to the key long-term value drivers of the business and to align the interests of the executive directors and 
approximately 320 of the global senior management population with the long-term interests of shareholders. PSP awards are discretionary  
and vesting is dependent upon the achievement of performance conditions measured over either a three-year period or a one-year period  
with a two-year holding period.
Only the executive directors and other members of the Management Board participate in the DAB which promotes a stronger link between 
short-term and long-term performance through the deferral of annual bonuses into shares for a three-year period. 
Further details of the schemes for the executive directors can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 77.
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2015
Number of
share
options
(thousand)
2015
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
(pence)
2014
Number of
share
options
(thousand)
2014
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
(pence)
Performance Share Plan
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 30,897 79 34,198 78 
Granted during the year 8,446 116 9,291 103 
Exercised during the year (10,361) 71 (5,650) 109 
Lapsed during the year (3,220) 69 (6,942) 82 
Outstanding at the end of the year 25,762 97 30,897 79 
2015
Number of
share
options
(thousand)
2015
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
(pence)
2014
Number of
share
options
(thousand)
2014
Weighted
average
fair value
at grant
(pence)
Deferred Annual Bonus
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,994 86 2,923 84 
Granted during the year 918 133 1,051 107 
Exercised during the year (1,284) 75 (980) 103 
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,628 107 2,994 86 
30 RELATED PARTIES
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL  
The remuneration of the Management Board, who are key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and represents the total compensation costs incurred by the Group in respect of 
remuneration, not the benefit to the individuals. Further information about the remuneration of executive directors is provided in the directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 77. 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Short-term employee benefits 6.6 7.7
Post-employment benefits 0.1 – 
Share-based payments 4.8 1.4
11.5 9.1
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 21.
31 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
THE GROUP AS LESSEE
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for the year 30.8 31.2 
At 30 June 2015, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which 
fall due as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Within one year 30.0 31.4 
Between two and five years 46.0 52.2 
After five years 4.3 7.0 
80.3 90.6 
108 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY 
On 4 December 2014 the Group acquired 80% of Veredus Corp., a pure-play IT staffing company based in Florida USA for a total cash 
consideration of £36.1 million comprising an initial cash payment of £30.3 million on acquisition and a tax equalisation payment of £5.8 million  
in March 2015. The Veredus acquisition brings with it a high-quality, experienced management team which, in addition to a well established  
US office network, will provide a strong platform for growth in the world’s largest recruitment market.  
(In £s million)
Book
value
Fair value
adjustment
Fair
value
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 0.1 2.9 3.0 
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 – 0.1 
Trade and other receivables 7.2 (0.7) 6.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 – 0.4 
7.8 2.2 10.0 
Goodwill 34.3 
Total consideration 44.3 
Satisfied by:
Cash paid in year 36.1 
Deferred consideration 8.2 
44.3 
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 36.1 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.4)
35.7 
The transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and to reflect the substance of the transaction using  
the principles of IFRS 10, has been accounted for as if 100% of the equity had been acquired. Net assets acquired after fair value adjustments  
were £10.0 million.
The deferred consideration is subject to a put/call arrangement which provides Hays with an option to acquire the remaining 20% of the  
equity from the shareholders (who have an equivalent right to sell the remaining 20% of the equity). The option is first available for exercise  
in March 2018 at a pre-determined multiple of earnings, and is subject to a cap. The maximum potential amount of all future payments that  
the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is £27.6 million. Fair value adjustments to the net  
assets acquired relate mainly to the recognition of an intangible asset in respect of the acquired Veredus brand as described in note 14 to the 
financial statements.
The acquired business contributed £33.8 million turnover, £10.0 million net fees and £0.3 million operating profit to the Group results before tax 
for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. This was in line with expectations with a good trading performance 
offset by the amortisation of the legacy brand, one off costs related to the transaction, and post-acquisition development of the business. 
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group turnover for the year would have increased by £25.9 million, 
net fees would have increased by £8.1 million and operating profit by £2.2 million. 
33 MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 
(In £s million)
1 July
2014
Cash
flow
Exchange
movement
30 June
2015
Cash and cash equivalents 48.0 31.4 (9.6) 69.8 
Bank loans and overdrafts (110.7) 10.2 – (100.5)
Net debt (62.7) 41.6 (9.6) (30.7)
The table above is presented as additional information to show movement in net debt, defined as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans 
and overdrafts.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 109 (In £s million) Note
Company
2015
Company
2014
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 0.3 0.4 
Investments 5 910.4 910.4 
910.7 910.8 
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 6 10.2 6.3 
Debtors due after more than one year 7 121.2 145.2 
Cash at bank and in hand – 2.5 
131.4 154.0 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (358.2) (392.2)
Net current liabilities (226.8) (238.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 683.9 672.6 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (47.0) (35.1)
Provisions 11 (7.8) (8.0)
Net assets 629.1 629.5 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 12,13 14.7 14.7 
Share premium account 13 369.6 369.6 
Capital redemption reserve 13 2.7 2.7 
Profit and loss account 13 242.1 242.7 
Own shares 13 – (0.2)
Equity shareholders’ interests 629.1 629.5 
The financial statements of Hays plc, registered number 2150950, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 
27 August 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
A R COX   P VENABLES
110 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HAYS PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
at 30 June 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
A ACCOUNTING BASIS
The separate financial statements of the 
Company are presented as required by  
the Companies Act 2006. They have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention 
and in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and Law.
As permitted by Section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company’s profit 
and loss account has not been presented.
The Company’s principal accounting policies 
adopted in the presentation of these financial 
statements are set out below and have been 
consistently applied to all periods presented.
B CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND RELATED 
PARTY DISCLOSURES
The results, assets and liabilities of the 
Company are included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Hays plc, which  
are publicly available. Consequently, the 
Company has taken exemption from 
preparing a cash flow statement under  
the terms of FRS 1 (revised) ‘Cash Flow 
Statements’. The Company is also exempt 
under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Party 
Disclosures’ from disclosing related party 
transactions with entities that are part of  
the Group.
C INVESTMENTS
Shares in subsidiaries are valued at cost less 
provision for impairment. 
D PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is recorded  
at cost, net of depreciation and any provision 
for impairment. Depreciation is provided on a 
straight-line basis over the anticipated useful 
working lives of the assets, after they have 
been brought into use, at the following rates:
Plant and machinery  
– At rates varying between 5% and 33%
Fixture and fittings  
– At rates varying between 10% and 25%
E  DEFERRED TAXATION
Deferred tax is provided in full on all timing 
differences which result in an obligation at 
the balance sheet date to pay more tax,  
or a right to pay less tax, at a future date,  
at rates expected to apply when they 
crystallise. Timing differences arise from the 
inclusion of items of income and expenditure 
in taxation computations in periods different 
from those in which they are included in 
financial statements. Deferred tax is not 
provided on unremitted earnings of 
subsidiaries and associates where there is  
no commitment to remit these earnings. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is regarded as more likely than 
not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
F PENSION COSTS
For defined benefit schemes the amounts 
charged to operating profit are the current 
service costs and gains and losses on 
settlements and curtailments. They are 
included as part of staff costs. Past service 
costs/curtailments are recognised 
immediately in the profit and loss account  
if the benefits have vested. If the benefits 
have not vested immediately, the costs are 
recognised over the period until vesting 
occurs. The interest cost and the expected 
return on assets are shown as a net amount 
of other finance costs or credits adjacent  
to interest. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately in the Statement  
of Total Recognised Gains and Losses. 
The main defined benefit scheme is funded, 
with the assets of the scheme held separately 
from those of the Group, in separate trustee 
administered funds. Pension scheme assets 
are measured at fair value and liabilities are 
measured on an actuarial basis using the 
projected unit method and discounted at a 
rate equivalent to the current rate of return 
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent 
currency and term to the scheme liabilities. 
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least 
triennially and are updated at each balance 
sheet date. The resulting defined benefit 
asset or liability, net of the related deferred 
tax, is presented separately after other  
net assets on the face of the Company 
Balance Sheet.
G EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES
The Company operates a number of 
employee share option schemes. All equity-
settled, share-based payments are measured 
at fair value at the date of grant and are 
recorded in the Balance Sheet within total 
equity shareholders’ interests in accordance 
with FRS 20, ‘Share-based Payments’.
H DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognised in the period that 
they are declared and approved.
2 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Details of directors’ emoluments and interests 
are included in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 61 to 77 of the Annual Report.
3 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR
Hays plc has not presented its own profit  
and loss account and related notes as 
permitted by Section 408 of the Companies 
Act 2006. The profit for the financial year in 
the Hays plc Company Financial Statements 
is £47.0 million (2014: loss £17.9 million). 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 111
NOTES TO THE HAYS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
(In £s million)
Plant and
machinery
Fixtures and
fittings Total
Cost
At 1 July 2014 1.2 1.2 2.4
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 June 2015 1.2 1.2 2.4
Depreciation
At 1 July 2014 1.0 1.0 2.0
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 June 2015 1.1 1.0 2.1
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 0.1 0.2 0.3
At 1 July 2014 0.2 0.2 0.4
5 INVESTMENTS 
(In £s million)
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
Cost
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 910.4
Provision for impairment
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 –
Total
At 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 910.4
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are listed in note 14.   
6 DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR  
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Corporation tax debtor 8.1 4.7
Prepayments 2.1 1.6
10.2 6.3
7 DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR     
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Prepayments 1.7 1.2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 119.1 143.3
Deferred tax 0.4 0.7
121.2 145.2
The Company charges interest on amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 1%. 
8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR       
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Overdrafts 22.5 –
Accruals 19.5 20.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 316.2 372.1
358.2 392.2
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. The Company is charged interest on amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings at a rate of three-month LIBOR less 1%. 
112 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE HAYS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED 9 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Net retirement benefit obligations (note 10) 47.0 35.1
10 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION
The Company is the sponsoring employer for all of the Hays defined benefit pension schemes and recognises the full liability on its Balance 
Sheet. Under FRS 17 the actual cost of providing pensions to the Company is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred during the year, 
net of costs paid by subsidiary companies. The Hays defined benefit pension schemes were closed to the accrual of future benefits on 30 June 
2012 at which time active members became deferred members of the scheme.
The current year service charge in the Company’s profit and loss account is £1.3 million (2014: £1.3 million). 
The life expectancy assumptions have been calculated using Club Vita base tables and future improvements in line with the CMI 2011 model 
with a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% per annum. On this basis a 65-year-old current pensioner has a life expectancy of 24.6 years and 
25.9 years for males and females respectively.
Based on actuarial advice, the financial assumptions used in calculating the scheme’s liabilities under FRS 17 are:
2015 2014 
Discount rate 3.8% 4.4%
RPI inflation 3.3% 3.4%
CPI inflation 2.3% 2.4%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.2% 3.3%
Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.3% 2.4%
The net expense recognised in profit and loss account comprised:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Net interest expense (1.7) (1.3)
Current service cost (1.3) (1.3)
Net expense recognised in the profit and loss account (3.0) (2.6)
The net expense in the current and prior year was recognised as finance costs.
The amount included in the Balance Sheet arising from the Company’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit retirement schemes  
was as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Fair value of scheme assets 626.6 568.4 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (685.3) (612.3)
Defined benefit scheme deficit (58.7) (43.9)
Related deferred tax asset 11.7 8.8 
Net pension liability recognised under FRS 17 (47.0) (35.1)
The movement in the Company pension deficit during the year is analysed below:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Deficit in the scheme brought forward (43.9) (33.0)
Current service cost (1.3) (1.3)
Contributions 14.0 13.5 
Net financial cost (1.7) (1.3)
Actuarial loss (25.8) (21.8)
Deficit in the scheme carried forward (58.7) (43.9)
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 113 10 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION CONTINUED
The change in the fair value of defined benefit schemes assets was: 
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Change in the fair value of scheme assets 
Fair value of plan assets at 1 July 568.4 527.2 
Interest income on defined benefit scheme assets 24.9 25.2 
Return on scheme assets 37.5 19.5 
Employer contributions 14.0 13.5 
Benefits and expenses paid (18.2) (17.0)
Fair value of plan assets at 30 June 626.6 568.4 
The analysis of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date was as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 
Equities 131.8 120.5 
Bonds and gilts 277.2 267.8 
Absolute return funds 37.2 34.3 
Cash and LDI funds 159.1 132.9 
Real estate 21.3 12.9 
626.6 568.4 
The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows:
(In £s million) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Present value of defined benefit obligations (685.3) (612.3) (560.2) (491.5) (452.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 626.6 568.4 527.2 476.1 440.5 
Deficit in the scheme (58.7) (43.9) (33.0) (15.4) (11.9)
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amount (£s million) 11.2 – (9.1) 0.2 (0.5)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 2% – (2%) – –
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
Amounts (£s million) 37.5 19.5 29.4 7.1 36.8 
Percentage of scheme assets 6% 3% 6% 1% 8%
FUTURE PROFILE OF HAYS PENSION SCHEME 
The Hays Pension Scheme was closed on 30 June 2012. The Group has considered the impact of the FRS 17 deficit in respect of the Group,  
its employees and pensioners. In the context of the prudent funding structure of the Group, the Company is in a strong position to manage this 
long-term liability to the satisfaction and benefit of all stakeholders. 
The amount of deficit funding contributions which are expected to be paid to the scheme during the financial year to 30 June 2016  
is £13.9 million.  
114 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE HAYS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED 11 PROVISIONS 
(In £s million) Total
At 1 July 2014 8.0 
Utilised (0.2)
At 30 June 2015 7.8 
Provisions include liabilities arising as a result of the business disposals relating to the Group transformation that concluded in 2004. It is not 
possible to estimate the timing of payments against the remaining provisions.
12 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 
CALLED UP, ALLOTTED AND FULLY PAID ORDINARY SHARES OF 1 PENCE EACH 
 
Share capital
 number
 (thousand)
Share
capital
£s million
At 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 1,464,097 14.7 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
13 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
(In £s million)
Share
capital
Share
premium
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Profit
and loss
account
Own
 shares Total
At 1 July 2014 14.7 369.6 2.7 242.7 (0.2) 629.5 
Total recognised gains and losses – – – 26.4 – 26.4 
Other share movements – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Share-based payments – – – 10.9 – 10.9 
Dividends paid – – – (37.9) – (37.9)
At 30 June 2015 14.7 369.6 2.7 242.1 – 629.1 
Investments in ‘own shares’ are held by an employee benefit trust to satisfy share awards made to employees. Dividends in respect of ‘own 
shares’ have been waived other than shares held as bare nominee for employees in respect of post-tax share awards. The number of shares 
held at 30 June 2015 is nil (2014: 458,019).
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 115 14 SUBSIDIARIES
Country of registration
Accountancy Personnel Pty Limited Australia
Accountancy Placements (Australia) Pty Limited Australia
Ampoza Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Hays Construction Pty Limited Australia
Hays Property Pty Limited Australia
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Australia) Pty Limited Australia
Hays Superannuation Pty Limited Australia
Hays Österreich GmbH Personnel Services Austria
Hays NV Belgium
Hays Services NV Belgium
Hays Recruitment and Selection Ltda Brazil
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Canada) Inc. Canada
Hays Especialistas En Reclutamiento Limitada Chile
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Shanghai) Co. Limited* China
Hays Colombia SAS Colombia
Hays Czech Republic, s.r.o Czech Republic
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Denmark) A/S Denmark
Axis Resources Holding Limited England & Wales
Axis Resources Limited England & Wales
EPS Pension Trustees Limited England & Wales
H101 Limited England & Wales
Hays Commercial Services Limited England & Wales
Hays Finance Technology Limited England & Wales
Hays Group Holdings Limited England & Wales
Hays Healthcare Limited England & Wales
Hays Holdings Limited England & Wales
Hays International Holdings Limited England & Wales
Hays Nominees Limited England & Wales
Hays Overseas Holdings Limited England & Wales
Hays Pension Trustee Limited England & Wales
Hays Personnel (Managed Solutions) Limited England & Wales
Hays Personnel Payroll Services Limited England & Wales
Hays Personnel Services Limited England & Wales
Hays Pharma Consulting Limited England & Wales
Hays Pharma Limited England & Wales
Hays Project Solutions Limited England & Wales
Hays Property Holdings Limited England & Wales
Hays Recruitment Services Limited England & Wales
Hays Social Care Limited England & Wales
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Holdings) Limited England & Wales
Hays Specialist Recruitment Limited England & Wales
Hays SRA Limited England & Wales
Hays Stakeholder Life Assurance Trustee Limited England & Wales
Hays ZMB Limited England & Wales
James Harvard International Group Limited England & Wales
Krooter Limited England & Wales
Myriad Computer Services Limited England & Wales
Oval (1620) Limited England & Wales
Owen, Thornhill and Harper Limited England & Wales
Paperstream Limited England & Wales
Recruitment Solutions Group Limited (IOM) England & Wales
RSG EBT Limited England & Wales
* As at 30 June 2015, companies marked with an asterisk (*) were not owned 100% by the Hays Group.
116 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE HAYS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED Country of registration
Weyside 23 Limited England & Wales
Weyside Group Limited England & Wales
Weyside Office Services Limited England & Wales
Weyside Telecoms Limited England & Wales
Weyside Turngate Limited England & Wales
Hays BTP & Immobilier SASU France
Hays Clinical Research SASU France
Hays Consulting SASU France
Hays Executive SASU France
Hays Finance SASU France
Hays France SAS France
Hays Ile de France SASU France
Hays IT Services SASU France
Hays Medias SASU France
Hays Nord Est SASU France
Hays Ouest SASU France
Hays Pharma Consulting SASU France
Hays Pharma SASU France
Hays Pharma Services SASU France
Hays Sud Est SASU France
Hays Sud Ouest SASU France
Hays Travail Temporaire SASU France
Hays AG Germany
Hays Finance GmbH Germany
Hays Holding GmbH Germany
Hays Technology Solutions GmbH Germany
Hays Temp GmbH Germany
Hays Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
Hays Specialist Recruitment Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
Hays Hungary Kft. Hungary
Hays Business Solutions Private Limited (Gurgaon) India
Hays Specialist Recruitment Private Limited India
Hays Business Services Ireland Limited Ireland
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Ireland) Limited Ireland
Hays Professional Services S.r.l Italy
Hays S.r.l Italy
Hays Resource Management Japan K.K. Japan
Hays Specialist Recruitment Japan K.K. Japan
Hays Finance (Jersey) Limited Jersey
Hays S.a.r.l Luxembourg
Hays Travail Temporaire Luxembourg Luxembourg
Hays Specialist Recruitment (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia
Hays Solution Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia
Hays Specialist Recruitment Holdings Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia
Hays Servicios, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Hays, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Hays B.V. Netherlands
Hays Commercial Services B.V. Netherlands
Hays Holdings B.V. Netherlands
Hays Temp B.V. Netherlands
Hays Specialist Recuitment (NZ) Limited New Zealand
Hays Document Management (Private) Limited Pakistan
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 117 Country of registration
Hays Poland Sp. zo.o. Poland
Hays Recrutamento Seleccao e Empresa de Trabalho Tempoario Unipessoal LDA Portugal
Hays Specialist Recruitment Romania SRL Romania
Hays Business Solutions Limited Liability Company Russia
Hays IT Solutions Limited Liability Company Russia
Hays Specialist Recruitment Limited Liability Company Russia
Hays Specialist Recruitment P.T.E Limited Singapore
Hays Slovakia S.r.o Slovakia
Hays Business Services S.L Spain
Hays Personnel Services Espana Empresa de Trabajo Temporal SA Spain
Hays Personnel Services Espana SA Spain
Hays Specialist Recruitment AB Sweden
Hays (Schweiz) AG Switzerland
Hays FZ-LLC UAE
3 Story Software LLC United States of America
Hays Holding Corporation United States of America
Hays Specialist Recruitment LLC United States of America
Hays Talent Solutions LLC United States of America
Hays USA Holdings Inc United States of America
Veredus Corporation* United States of America
Veredus Government Solutions LLC* United States of America
Veredus Holdings Inc* United States of America
Veredus LLC* United States of America
* As at 30 June 2015, companies marked with an asterisk (*) were not owned 100% by the Hays Group.
15 RELATED PARTIES
Hays plc has taken advantage of the exemption granted under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosure’ not to disclose transactions with entities that 
are part of the Hays plc Group. 
16 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
The final dividend for 2015 of 1.89 pence per share (£27.0 million) will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 11 November 2015  
and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2015. If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 13 November 2015 to shareholders  
on the register at close of business on 9 October 2015.  
14 SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
118 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE HAYS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 119
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
REGISTRAR 
The Company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Telephone: 0871 384 2843
(1)
International: +44 121 415 7047
Textphone: 0871 384 2255
(1)
 (+44 121 415 7028 if calling from outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What if offers How to participate
Shareholder service You can access details of your shareholding and a range  
of other shareholder services.
You can register at www.shareview.co.uk.
Enquiries relating to your shareholding You can inform Equiniti of lost share certificates, dividend 
warrants or tax vouchers, change of address or if you would 
like to transfer shares to another person.
Please contact Equiniti.
Dividend payments Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account. Tax vouchers will continue to be sent to the 
shareholder’s registered address.
Complete a dividend bank mandate instruction form which 
can be downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk or by 
telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to bank account 
for overseas shareholders
Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency 
and send it directly to your bank account.
For more details please visit www.shareview.co.uk or  
contact Equiniti.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) The Company has a DRIP to allow shareholders to reinvest 
the cash dividend that they receive in Hays plc shares on 
competitive dealing terms.
Further information is available from the Share Dividend 
helpline on 0871 384 2268 or visit www.shareview.co.uk.
Amalgamation of accounts If you receive more than one copy of the Annual Report  
and Financial Statements, it could be because you have 
more than one record on the register. Equiniti can 
amalgamate your accounts into one record.
Please contact Equiniti.
Share dealing service
(2)
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service which allows 
you to sell your Hays plc shares or add to your holding if  
you are a UK resident. If you wish to deal, you will need your 
account/shareholder reference number which appears on 
your share certificate. 
Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, you can also  
use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share 
dealing facilities to buy or sell shares.
(2)
You can deal in your shares on the internet or by phone.  
For more information about this service and for details of the 
rates, log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or telephone 
Equiniti on 0845 603 7037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, 
Monday to Friday.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
(2)
Investors in Hays plc Ordinary shares may take advantage 
of a low-cost individual savings account (ISA) and/or an 
investment account where they can hold their Hays plc 
shares electronically. The ISA and investment account are 
operated by Equiniti Financial Services Limited and are 
subject to standard dealing commission rates.
For further information or to apply for an ISA or investment 
account, visit Equiniti’s website at www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing or telephone them on 0845 300 0430.
(1) Calls charged at 10 pence per minute plus network extras. The helpline is open Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm, excluding UK bank holidays.
(2)  The provision of share dealing services is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be 
obtained from a professional independent financial adviser. 
ID FRAUD AND UNSOLICITED MAIL
Share-related fraud and identity theft affects 
shareholders of many companies and we 
urge you to be vigilant. If you receive any 
unsolicited mail offering advice, you should 
inform Equiniti immediately.
As the Company’s share register is, by law, 
open to public inspection, shareholders may 
receive unsolicited mail from organisations 
that use it as a mailing list. To reduce the 
amount of unsolicited mail you receive, 
contact the Mailing Preference Service, 
FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London, W1E 0ZT. 
Telephone: 0845 703 4599 or 020 7291 3310. 
Website: www.mpsonline.org.uk. 
SHAREGIFT
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme 
for shareholders and is administered by the 
Orr Mackintosh Foundation. It is especially 
useful for those shareholders who wish to 
dispose of a small number of shares whose 
value makes it uneconomical to sell on a 
normal commission basis. Further information 
can be obtained from www.sharegift.org or 
from Equiniti. 
WEBSITE
The Company has a corporate website at 
haysplc.com, which holds, amongst other 
information, a copy of our latest Annual 
Report and Financial Statements and copies 
of all announcements made over the last  
12 months. 
REGISTERED OFFICE
250 Euston Road
London
NW1 2AF
Registered in England & Wales no. 2150950
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7383 2266
COMPANY SECRETARY
Doug Evans
Email: cosec@hays.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT
David Walker, Head of Investor Relations
Email: ir@hays.com 120 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
DIRECTORY
Listed below are the main offices for 
each of our countries of operation. 
To find your local office please visit 
the Hays website, haysplc.com.
AUSTRALIA
T +61 (0)2 8226 9600
F +61 (0)2 9233 1110 
Level 11, Chifley Tower
2 Chifley Square 
Sydney NSW 2000 
anz@hays.com.au
hays.com.au 
AUSTRIA
T +43 (0)1 535 34 43 0 
F +43 (0)1 535 34 43 299 
Europaplatz 3/5
1150 Wien 
info@hays.at 
hays.at 
BELGIUM
T +32 (0)56 653600 
F +32 (0)56 228761 
Harelbeeksestraat 81 
B-8520 Kuurne 
kuurne@hays.com 
hays.be 
BRAZIL
T +55 11 3046 9800 
F +55 11 3046 9820
Rua Pequetita, 215 – 13° andar
Vila Olímpia
São Paulo, SP 04552-060 
headoffice@hays.com.br 
hays.com.br 
CANADA
T +1 416 367 4297 
F +1 416 367 4298
1500 Don Mills Road, Suite 402
North York, ON M3B 3K4 
recruit@hays.com
hays.ca 
CHILE
T +(562) 2449 1340
F +(562) 2449 1340
Cerro El Plomo 5630
Of. 1701, P.O. 7560742
Las Condes
Santiago, Chile 
chile@hays.cl
hays.cl
CHINA
T +86 (0) 21 2322 9600
F +86 (0) 21 5382 4947
Unit 3001, Wheelock Square
No. 1717 West Nan Jing Road
Shanghai 200040
shanghai@hays.cn
hays.cn
COLOMBIA
T +57 (1) 742 25 02
F +57 (1) 742 00 28
Centro Empresarial Paralelo 108
Autopista Norte # 108 – 27
Torre 2 – Piso 11
Bogota DC
colombia@hays.com.co
hays.com.co
CZECH REPUBLIC
T +420 225 001 711
F +420 225 001 723
Olivova 4/2096
110 00 Praha 1 
prague@hays.cz
hays.cz
DENMARK
T +45 33 155 600
F +45 33 155 601
Kongens Nytorv 8, 2 Sal
DK-1050 Copenhagen K
copenhagen@hays.dk
hays.dk
FRANCE
T +33 (0)1 42 99 16 99
F +33 (0)1 42 99 16 89
Building Gaveau
11, Avenue Delcassé
75008 Paris
haysfrance@hays.fr
hays.fr
GERMANY
T +49 (0)621 1788 0
F +49 (0)621 1788 1299 
Willy-Brandt-Platz 1-3
68161 Mannheim 
info@hays.de 
hays.de
HONG KONG
T +852 2521 8884
F +852 2521 8499
Unit 5803-07, 58th Floor
The Center
99 Queen’s Road Central
hongkong@hays.com.hk 
hays.com.hk 
HUNGARY
T +36 1 501 2400
F +36 1 501 2402 
Bank Center
Szabadság tér 7
1054 Budapest 
hungary@hays.hu
hays.hu 
INDIA
T +91 (124) 4752521
Building No:9B, 11th Floor
DLF Cyber City
Gurgaon-122002 
hays.in 
IRELAND
T +353 (0)1 670 4737 
F +353 (0)1 670 4738 
2 Dawson Street
Dublin 2
info@hays.ie 
hays.ie
ITALY
T +39 (0)2 888 931 
F +39 (0)2 888 93 535 
Corso Italia, 13
20122 Milano
milano@hays.it
hays.it 
JAPAN
T +81 (0)3 3560 1188
F +81 (0)3 3560 1189
Izumi Garden Tower 28F
1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku
Tokyo, 106-6028
info@hays.co.jp
hays.co.jp 
LUXEMBOURG
T +352 268 654
F +352 268 654 10
65 Avenue de la Gare
L 1611 Luxembourg 
luxembourg@hays.com
hays.lu 
MALAYSIA
T +603 2786 8600
F +603 2786 8601
Level 23 
Menara Petronas 3 
KLCC 50088
Kuala Lumpur
kualalumpur@hays.com.my
hays.com.my
MEXICO
T +52 (55) 5249 2500
F +52 (55) 5202 7601
Torre Optima 1 
Paseo de las Palmas 405 Piso 10
Col. Lomas de Chapultepec
Miguel Hidalgo
CP 11000 Mexico DF
mexico@hays.com.mx
hays.com.mx 
NETHERLANDS
T +31 (0)13 591 0160
F +31 (0)13 591 0155
Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G 
NL -5032 MD Tilburg
hoofdkantoor@hays.com 
hays.nl 
NEW ZEALAND
T +64 (0)9 377 4774
F +64 (0)9 377 5855
Level 12, PwC Tower 
188 Quay Street, 
Auckland 1010 
anz@hays.com.au
hays.net.nz 
POLAND
T +48 (0)22 584 5650
F +48 (0)22 584 5651
Ul Zlota 59
00-120 Warszawa
warsaw@hays.pl
hays.pl 
PORTUGAL
T +351 21 782 6560 
F +351 21 782 6566 
Avenida da República, 90 – 1º 
Fracção 4, 1600-206 Lisboa 
portugal@hays.com
hays.pt
RUSSIA
T +7 495 228 2208
F +7 495 967 9700
Business Centre City Dell
3rd Floor
Zemlyanoy Val, 9
Moscow, 105064
moscow@hays.ru 
hays.ru 
SINGAPORE
T +65 (0) 6223 4535
F +65 (0) 6223 6235
80 Raffles Place
Level 27 UOB Plaza 2 
Singapore 048624 
singapore@hays.com.sg 
hays.com.sg 
SPAIN
T +34 91 456 6998
F +34 91 443 0770
Plaza de Colón 2
Torre 2, Planta 3
28046 Madrid 
spain@hays.com 
hays.es 
SWEDEN
T +46 (0)8 588 043 00 
F +46 (0)8 588 043 99 
Stureplan 4C 
114 35 Stockholm 
stockholm@hays.com 
hays.se 
SWITZERLAND
T +41 (0)44 2255 000 
F +41 (0)44 2255 299
Nüschelerstr. 32 
8001 Zürich 
info@hays.ch 
hays.ch
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
T +971 (0)4 559 5800
F +971 (0)4 368 6794
Block 19, 1st Floor, Office F-02
Knowledge Village
P.O. Box 500340, Dubai 
dubai@hays.com
hays.ae 
UNITED KINGDOM
T +44 (0)20 3465 0021 
F +44 (0)20 8525 3497
107 Cheapside
London
EC2V 6DB
customerservice@hays.com
hays.com
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
T +1 813 936-7004
F +1 813 489-5914
4300 W. Cypress Street
Suite 900
Tampa, FL 33607
recruit-us@hays.com
hays-us.com
vereduscorp.com  STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
2015 2016
8 OCTOBER
Interim Management Statement 
13 JANUARY
Trading Update for quarter ending 31 December 2015
11 NOVEMBER
Annual General Meeting
24 FEBRUARY
Half Year Report for six months ending 31 December 2015
13 NOVEMBER
Payment of final dividend
14 APRIL
Interim Management Statement
14 JULY 
Trading Update for quarter ending 30 June 2016
This document is produced using materials 
that are certified as FSC
©
 mixed sources from 
well-managed forests.
This document is printed on Heaven 42 paper 
that has been independently certified on behalf 
of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
Designed by
 
Printed in England
© Copyright Hays plc 2015
HAYS, the Corporate and Sector H devices, 
Recruiting experts worldwide, the HAYS Recruiting 
experts worldwide logo, and Powering the World of  
Work are trademarks of Hays plc. The Corporate and 
Sector H devices are original designs protected by 
registration in many countries. All rights are reserved. haysplc.com
