 IMI plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
2015
Engineering 
GREAT the IMI WAY
Good strategic  
progress
IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
IMI plc
Lakeside
Solihull Parkway
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham B37 7XZ
United Kingdom
www.imiplc.com 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Strategic 
Review*
Performance 
Review*
Corporate 
Governance
Financial  
Statements
01  Highlights
02  Group overview
04  Chairman’s statement
08  Chief Executive’s review 
12 Strategic growth priorities and enablers 
15  Business model 
16  Strategy in action
26 Corporate responsibility 
30  Measurements and targets 
32  Principal risks and uncertainties 
38 IMI Critical Engineering 
40 IMI Precision Engineering
42 IMI Hydronic Engineering 
46  The Board 
48 Letter from the Chairman 
49 Corporate Governance Report 
54  Audit Committee Report
57  Nominations Committee Report 
59  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
74  Introduction
76  Primary statements 
84  Section 1 - Basis of preparation 
85 Section 2 - Results for the year 
96 Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities
103  Section 4 - Capital structure and    
  financing costs
127  Section 5 - Other notes 
133 Directors’ Report 
154  Five year summary
156  Shareholder and general information
We introduce our Board, and explain our 
governance structure and how it operates.
Our financial statements for the year presented 
in a user-friendly format. 
We take a look at our 2015 results, division 
by division.
Our Chief Executive reviews 2015 and 
outlines our strategy and the progress we 
are making.
Introduction 36-43 06-35
72-156
01-05
44-71
*  The Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43 has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on 
their behalf by Mark Selway, Chief Executive, on 25 February 2016.
IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275
IMI plc
IMI plc, the specialist engineering company, designs, manufactures and services 
highly engineered products that control the precise movement of fluids. Its innovative 
technologies, built around valves and actuators, enable vital processes to operate 
safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively. The Group works with industrial 
customers across a range of high growth sectors, including energy, transportation  
and infrastructure, all of which are benefiting from the impact of long-term global trends 
including climate change, urbanisation, resource scarcity and an ageing population. 
IMI employs over 12,000 people, has manufacturing facilities in more than 20 countries 
and operates a global service network. The Company is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. Further information is available at www.imiplc.com.
Inside this report
Front cover photo:  
IMI Divisional Employees
See the report on 
the IMI plc website:
www.imiplc.com “2015 was characterised by further implementation of our strategic plan, albeit against 
a difficult economic backdrop. We remain convinced that the opportunities to improve 
competitiveness and leverage the Group’s potential are significant and we will continue to 
invest in building strong operational foundations and improved customer offerings which  
will deliver future growth. In those respects, it has been a year of good progress.” 
Highlights
•  Further progress on strategic  
initiatives
•  Given economic backdrop creditable 
results with revenues reducing 5%  
and adjusted EPS down 20%
•  Strong cash generation of £192m  
up 25%
•  Strong balance sheet with Net Debt of 
£237m equating to a Net Debt/EBITDA 
ratio of 0.9x
•  Recommending a 2% increase in  
the full year dividend
•  In 2015 15 new products launched 
by Hydronic Engineering with further 
launches in Hydronic Engineering  
and Precision Engineering scheduled 
for 2016
•  Disposed of non-core businesses to 
further increase focus on specialist  
flow control activities
All figures are stated on a reported basis excluding the effect of items reported as exceptional in the 
income statement. For other statutory measures see Consolidated Income Statement on page 76.
1
  On an organic basis, after adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and movements in 
exchange rates, see Section 2.1.1 on page 86. 
2
  Cash generated from the operations after interest and tax as described in the commentary to  
the cash flow statement on page 83.
Revenue
-5%
1
£1,557m
£1,557m £1,686m
2014 2015
Profit before tax
-21%
£218.7m
+25%
£218.7m £278.1m
2014 2015
300
200
100
Cash generation
2
£192m
Adjusted basic earnings per share
-20%
62.2p
62.2p 78.0p
2014 2015
Segmental operating margin
-230bps
15.4%
15.4% 17.7%
2014 2015
15
20
10
5
60
80
40
20
1500
2000
1000
500
Total dividend for year
+2%
38.4p
30
40
20
10
38.4p 37.6p
2014 2015
150
200
100
50
£192m £154m
2014 2015
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
1
Introduction 2 IMI plc
Find out more about IMI Hydronic Engineering 
Turn to page 42 
IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading 
global supplier of hydronic distribution 
systems which deliver optimal and energy 
efficient heating and cooling systems to the 
residential and commercial building sectors. 
Key brands 
IMI Flow Design, IMI Heimeier,  
IMI Pneumatex, IMI TA 
Main markets 
Water based heating and cooling systems  
for commercial buildings, and temperature  
control for residential buildings
Major operational locations 
Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden,  
Switzerland and USA
% of Group revenue
Revenue
Operating profit
Number of employees
17%
£264m
£51.8m
2,000
Our purpose is to deliver great solutions that tackle the most demanding engineering challenges. 
We help some of the world’s biggest industrial companies operate their processes safely, cleanly, 
efficiently and cost effectively. We operate through three divisions – IMI Critical Engineering, 
IMI Precision Engineering and IMI Hydronic Engineering – and employ over 12,000 people  
in over 50 countries around the world.
Find out more about IMI Precision Engineering 
Turn to page 40
IMI Precision Engineering specialises 
in developing motion and fluid control 
technologies for applications where 
precision, speed and reliability  
are essential. 
Key brands 
IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS,  
IMI Herion, IMI Maxseal
Main markets 
Commercial Vehicle, Energy, Food and Beverage, 
Industrial Automation, Life Sciences and Rail
Major operational locations 
Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany,  
Mexico, Switzerland, UK and USA
% of Group revenue
Revenue
Operating profit
Number of employees
42%
£662m
£117.7m
5,800 
Find out more about IMI Critical Engineering 
Turn to page 38
IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading 
provider of critical flow control solutions 
that enable vital energy and process 
industries to operate safely, cleanly, 
reliably and more efficiently. 
Key brands 
IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI CCI, IMI Fluid Kinetics, 
IMI InterAtiva, IMI NH, IMI Orton, IMI Remosa,  
IMI SSF, IMI STI, IMI TH Jansen, IMI Truflo Marine, 
IMI Truflo Rona, IMI Z&J, IMI Zikesch
Main markets 
Oil & Gas, Fossil Power, Nuclear Power, 
Petrochemical, Iron & Steel, Desalination  
and Process Industries
Major operational locations 
Belgium, Brazil, China, Czech Republic,  
Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, 
Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA
% of Group revenue
Revenue
Operating profit
Number of employees
41%
£631m
£93.1m
4,300
Group overview Key
IMI Headquarters
IMI Critical Engineering
IMI Precision Engineering
IMI Hydronic Engineering
This map illustrates locations with more than ten employees and includes manufacturing sites and sales offices
North 
America 
Africa
South 
America 
Asia
Australasia
IMI’s global footprint
Divisional revenue by geography
Europe 
3
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Group revenue by geography
RoW
4%
UK
6%
IMI Hydronic
Engineering
17%
North 
America
21%
IMI Precision 
Engineering
42%
Western Europe
36%
IMI Critical 
Engineering
41%
Emerging  
Markets
33%
RoW
1%
UK
2%
Western Europe
70%
North 
America
6%
Emerging  
Markets
21%
IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering
Revenue by division
Introduction
RoW
5%
UK
5%
North 
America
22%
Western Europe
15%
Emerging  
Markets
53%
RoW
4%
UK
7%
North 
America
28%
Western Europe
43%
Emerging  
Markets
18% 4 IMI plc
First impressions
I was delighted to be appointed your Chairman in May last year. IMI is a terrific company 
with many strengths and I am particularly pleased to be taking on this role at such an 
exciting time.
Following the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive in 2014, the Group’s 
strategic direction was reset and refocused on delivering sustainable accelerated top 
and bottom line growth and long-term shareholder value. 
Since becoming Chairman last year, I have visited a number of our businesses including 
our world-class Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operations in the Czech 
Republic and have been able to spend time with many of our employees. Three things 
in particular have stood out.
First, our people: they have world-class engineering skills and are committed and 
passionate about the products and technologies they are creating and the service  
they provide to customers. I have been particularly impressed with the high levels of 
employee engagement which are very evident throughout every area of the operation, 
whether it be continuous improvement driven from the shop floor or the Obeya rooms 
which are used to improve our project management within Critical Engineering.  
The culture and ambition for change was evident throughout. 
Secondly, the impact of our growth plan: our new strategic direction is well embedded 
in all our businesses and, while we are still in the early phases of our five year plan, 
thanks to the hard work of all employees around the Group, we are making progress 
and benefits are already starting to come through. It is also evident that, despite the 
challenging market environment, which Mark Selway explains in his review on page 8, 
the implementation of cost cutting initiatives and the acceleration of a number of 
operational improvements, our growth plan remains on track.
And thirdly, the opportunity: a range of significant growth opportunities, both organic 
and acquisitive, exist for all our businesses. I am confident that IMI’s inherent strengths 
and the significant amount of work that has been done this year to ready our 
businesses for accelerated growth will enable us to fully exploit these opportunities.
Board performance / corporate governance
As a newly appointed Chairman of any complex international Group there are a great 
many activities with which I have needed to become familiar including a new Board,  
a new Executive team, new products, new markets and practices and procedures, 
which in many ways make up the DNA of the Group.
It is pleasing to report that my early reviews of the key components of IMI have been 
favourable. There is a positive dynamic in the Boardroom where we have a diversity of 
skills which provide a good balance of support and challenge to our Executive team.
“This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to deliver our strategic plan I believe 
that momentum will continue to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and 
continues to be done will drive medium-term growth and long-term value for our shareholders.”
“While the Group’s organic growth strategy provides good prospects for profitable expansion, 
our strong cash generation and balance sheet give us the full range of options to create growth 
through business development and acquisitions.” 
Chairman’s Statement
“Significant opportunities”
4
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman 5
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board details
Turn to page 46
Corporate Governance
Turn to page 44
The Executive clearly has a lot on its plate, not helped by  
the headwinds in many of its markets. With the addition of 
Massimo Grassi who joined us in June to head up the Precision 
Engineering division, Mark now has his full complement of 
Executives who are all committed to delivering our strategic 
plan. I have completed a review of our succession planning  
and Executive development plans and am comfortable that  
with proper execution we have a robustness from which to 
build our future. 
In terms of products and markets, I have spent time with the 
Board and management reviewing our five year strategic plan 
and I am impressed with what I have seen. The plan is ambitious 
but I am a believer in ambitious goals and the Executive has 
been diligent in its review of its markets, competitors and the 
opportunities which are available to us in the future.
I have also had the opportunity to undertake reviews of our risk 
management and internal control and governance framework 
including meeting with our independent auditor Ernst & Young 
LLP (‘EY’). These reviews give me a great deal of confidence that 
across the Group, the IMI Way, which sets out our values and 
how we do business, is well embedded. The new procedures 
and structures, which are being introduced progressively, and 
the addition of Francis Knowles, who joined IMI this year as 
Director of Risk and Compliance, will further strengthen the 
governance framework of the Group.
Board changes
I succeeded Roberto Quarta as Chairman at the close of the 
Annual General Meeting in May last year (‘AGM’). Roberto  
had been your Chairman since 2011 and during that time  
he oversaw much change, as a result of which, IMI is well 
positioned for long-term growth. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank him for his significant contribution and wish him 
well in the future. 
Daniel Shook joined the Board as Finance Director designate 
on 1 January 2015 and became Finance Director on 1 March 
2015, succeeding Douglas Hurt, who retired from the Board  
at the AGM. After serving as a non-executive director for nine 
years, Anita Frew also retired from the Board at the AGM and 
Bob Stack succeeded her as senior independent director 
immediately following the AGM. Ross McInnes, who joined  
the Board as a non-executive director on 1 October 2014,  
took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 
2015 after Phil Bentley stepped down from the Board at the 
end of 2014. 
More recently on 1 September 2015 we welcomed Isobel 
Sharp to the Board as a non-executive director and a member 
of the Audit Committee. Isobel has extensive accounting, audit 
and corporate governance experience and having advised a 
number of FTSE boards during her career she has wide  
ranging business experience.
Summary
This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to 
deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue 
to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and 
continues to be done will drive accelerated growth and long-
term value for our shareholders. 
Introduction Our strategic plan is 
now being executed 
across the Group and 
I am pleased to report 
real progress and 
momentum starting  
to build
Engineering 
GREAT the 
IMI Way 
Corporate 
responsibility
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
Key performance 
indicators
Our business 
model
We set out our approach to doing 
business responsibly and the  
importance of the IMI Way.
We have in place a well-established risk 
management structure and framework 
which is designed to identify, manage 
and mitigate the business risks we face.
Our business performance is measured 
through Group-wide targets and 
improvement measures.
Our business model is built around our 
core strategic priorities of capitalising 
on growth opportunities, operational 
excellence, investment in product 
development and targeted acquisitions.
26-29
32-35 30-31
12-24 
Chief Executive’s Review
Mark Selway describes early progress 
and continuing ambitions 
08-11
Strategic review
Above 
Every person at IMI in every function is 
actively involved in improvement activities
Right 
The implementation of lean uses industry 
recognised Kanban and Pull systems
IMI plc 6 Group Overview Group Overview Strategic Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction Strategic Review Mark Selway at the Critical Engineering conference and visiting our 
CCI operation in California
8 IMI plc
Performance in 2015
“Despite tough conditions in many of our markets we made steady progress on a number 
of fronts. Our financial results, while lower than originally anticipated, were broadly 
in line with expectations, with substantial progress being made in the execution of the 
strategic plan we outlined in 2014.” 
Chief Executive’s Review
“A year of good strategic progress”
Challenging environment
Trading conditions in many of our geographies and markets were tough. In particular 
economic slowdowns in China and Brazil impacted both our Critical Engineering and 
Precision Engineering divisions. Challenging trading conditions across industrial markets 
world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses.
The Oil & Gas market continues to be impacted globally by the unprecedented slide  
in the oil price and while IMI is uniquely positioned in our exposure to liquid natural gas,  
the wider market downturn impacted the petrochemical order book in Critical Engineering 
and the upstream activities of both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering.
The Group’s exposure to the heavy truck sector falls predominantly to Precision 
Engineering and 2015 represented a solid year of production in Europe and North 
America with the latter slowing from its peak in the final quarter of 2015. The Brazilian 
heavy truck market suffered terribly with close to half the volume when compared  
to 2014.
In Hydronic Engineering, our most important European construction markets remained 
soft with Germany and the Nordic regions showing small declines in the year. The 
investments which the division has made in new products proved to be timely,  
growing our market share and offsetting all of the market decline in the year.
Given these tough market conditions and the expectation that they will continue in 
the near term we are undertaking a number of cost cutting initiatives including closing 
smaller, low growth production facilities in Critical Engineering and downsizing our 
Brazilian footprint in Precision Engineering. We fully recognise that these difficult 
decisions affect our employees and the communities in which we operate. However 
they are necessary to keep our strategic plan on track and deliver long-term sustainable 
growth. We are also taking the opportunity to accelerate some of the improvement 
projects which were due for implementation during later phases of our growth plan, 
including the consolidation of Critical Engineering’s European footprint and closure  
of its nuclear operation in Canada.
Mark Selway
Chief Executive Mark Selway meeting with the Precision Engineering leadership 
in Singapore
9
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The cost cutting initiatives and acceleration of the European 
rationalisation projects will improve the short-term results of  
the Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions 
while underpinning the longer term prospects of the Group.
Results overview
Despite experiencing tough conditions in many of our markets, 
our financial results were broadly in line with expectations. 
Group revenues on an organic basis decreased by 5% 
due to tough conditions in many of our end markets. After 
acquisitions, disposals and adverse exchange rate movements, 
reported Group revenues were down 8% to £1,557m (2014: 
£1,686m). Segmental operating profit of £239m (2014: 
£298m) decreased by 15% on a like for like basis and reflected 
the lower sales volumes and our investment in a range of 
growth initiatives. After the impact of adverse exchange rate 
movements, reported segmental operating profit decreased by 
20%. The Group’s operating margin was 15.4% (2014: 17.7%) 
and reported earnings per share decreased by 20% to 62.2p 
(2014: 78.0p). Cash generation of £192m (2014: £154m) was 
particularly strong following working capital improvements 
across our businesses as a result of our lean implementation. 
This resulted in Net Debt of £237m and a Net Debt to EBITDA 
ratio of 0.9x.
Reflecting continued confidence in the Group’s prospects the 
Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 
2% to 24.5p (2014: 24.0p). This makes a total dividend for the 
year of 38.4p, an increase of 2% over last year’s 37.6p.
Strategy starting to deliver
As the Chairman has highlighted on page 4, our new strategic 
plan is now embedded in all our businesses and across the 
Group we are seeing real progress and momentum starting  
to build. 
Operational performance continues  
to improve
Our operational performance continues to improve. This is 
a fundamental part of our growth plan. As our businesses 
become more efficient we will better utilise our production 
facilities, reduce our working capital requirements and generate 
cost savings, all of which will enhance our competitiveness. 
We use a world renowned lean benchmarking assessment 
to track operational improvement in every IMI facility and the 
first assessments took place back in June 2014. Since then, 
significant progress has been made. Critical Engineering has 
improved its results from its first benchmark of 26% to 56% at 
the end of 2015, Precision Engineering has improved from 32% 
to 59% while Hydronic Engineering made the most progress 
from 37% to 72% in the same period. The goal for all of our 
facilities is to achieve world-class operational performance by 
2018 and I am delighted to report that several of our plants, 
including Hydronic Engineering’s Polish operations, which 
scored 88% in the latest assessment, are well on track to 
achieving that. 
The early benefits of these operational improvements are 
already showing through. All the Group’s facilities now 
have established continuous improvement programmes 
which are driving improvements in quality, productivity and 
responsiveness to customer demand. The lean journey is a 
never ending programme to eliminate waste in all of its forms 
and, while we remain at the early phase of implementation, 
I was pleased to see the benefits of working capital and 
inventory gains delivered in the year.
Product lead times and machine set ups have also improved 
remarkably and these benefits, when tied to normal levels 
of factory loading will, without question, result in improved 
competitiveness and sustainable competitive advantage  
across all of our sectors and geographies.
Strategic Review 1. 2.
10 IMI plc
Our businesses are ready for  
accelerated growth
Much of 2015 and the early phases of our growth plan have 
been about strengthening our infrastructure and investing in 
systems and processes that allow us to operate globally in the 
most efficient and effective way. I am pleased to report we have 
also made much progress in this area. 
We have launched new ERP systems, which accurately and 
efficiently manage data in all of our divisions. In May 2015, a 
new ERP system was launched in Critical Engineering’s Czech 
Republic and Austrian businesses and will be subsequently rolled 
out in the division’s Japanese, Korean and Swedish businesses 
during 2016. Precision Engineering has also launched a new ERP 
system which went live at Farmington in Connecticut and will be 
rolled out across four other US sites next year and a new division-
wide system is currently being rolled out in Hydronic Engineering. 
The successful launch and roll out of these systems, on time, 
to budget, and without disruption, is a significant achievement 
and a testament to the hard work of our employees around the 
Group. We are progressively rolling out the tools to automatically 
collect, manage and distribute accurate and consistent information 
easily and efficiently. Repetitive, time consuming and sometimes 
erroneous manual data entry is fast becoming a thing of the past. 
Day-to-day tasks are performed more efficiently, project cycle 
times have been reduced and data retrieval and reporting has 
been made quicker and easier. In addition to these operational 
benefits, financial improvements are also coming through. 
Access to accurate consistent data means we can better 
manage and control operating costs. In particular, as we now 
have better visibility across the entire production process, 
management of our inventory has significantly improved leading  
to an impressive reduction in suppliers and slow moving 
inventory during the year. Most importantly we are now better 
equipped to monitor the profitability of each and every project.
We have also introduced systems to improve our project 
management and quality procedures. A new visual project 
management system called Obeya is now up and running at 
Critical Engineering’s CCI businesses in the US, Korea and the 
Czech Republic and a new quality system is now operating 
across the whole of the Precision Engineering division. 
Product development to drive organic 
growth is accelerating
To maintain our competitiveness and market-leading positions, 
we outlined in our strategy the need to develop our product 
portfolio and in particular create new products and technologies 
that are at the forefront of flow control technology and that offer 
customers compelling solutions to the engineering challenges 
they face. Last year we began to progressively increase our R&D 
spend. In 2014 we spent around 3% of revenue on R&D and by 
2017 we plan to have increased this to around 5% of revenue. 
In the past 24 months, Hydronic Engineering has developed and 
launched 29 new products which generated almost 10% of the 
division’s total revenue last year. Of particular note is the Eclipse 
product, which provides the market with a new and dynamic 
level of control and has succeeded in substantially growing 
market shares even in these soft market conditions.
In Precision Engineering we have now completed our review 
of the Industrial Automation market and its various subsectors. 
This work, together with rigorous laboratory testing and teardown 
of recognised market-leading products, has provided a clear 
roadmap for the product pipeline needed to grow our position  
in our selected sectors.
Also in the important heavy Commercial Vehicle sector, the division 
has completed the development of a new proportionate valve, 
the Phoenix valve. This provides faster response and assists our 
customers reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency. This valve 
has already been adopted by a significant European customer with 
a good flow of revenue expected from 2019.
In order to manage efficiently the volume of new products  
within Precision Engineering’s future pipeline, the division has 
developed a new and dynamic New Product Introduction 
process which includes advanced quality planning and many  
of the tools successfully used in both Hydronic Engineering  
and Critical Engineering.
Within Critical Engineering, our already globally recognised 
excellence in critical valve design has been enhanced with 
competitor teardown and benchmarking processes and the 
introduction of our Obeya project management system,  
which helps reduce lead times and ensure timely and efficient 
delivery of the entire production process in even the most 
technically difficult projects. 1.  Daily ‘tool box’ talks and team 
meetings now feature at all  
IMI facilities
2.  New product and rapid  
prototyping techniques
3.  Critical Engineering’s new  
world-class factory in Korea
4.  The use of Total Productive 
Maintenance helps productivity  
and reduces downtime
3. 4.
11
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Business development
In business development, the overarching priority in 2015 has 
been the integration of Bopp & Reuther which was acquired 
at the start of the year. This acquisition allowed us to build and 
implement our new IMI acquisition and integration procedures, 
which will help deliver successful acquisitions in the future. 
While the markets for Bopp & Reuther have been similarly 
impacted by the declines experienced in our other Critical 
Engineering businesses, the integration, while not without its 
challenges, has proceeded well and created a platform for 
accelerated synergy delivery in the years ahead.
While timing can never be certain, our business development 
activities in 2016 will continue to focus predominantly on value 
enhancing, strategically aligned bolt-ons for Critical Engineering 
and Hydronic Engineering, with larger scale opportunities 
remaining an ambition during the later years of our strategic plan.
Our people 
As I have highlighted in 2015, we have made a great deal 
of progress. While navigating challenging market conditions 
the Group has delivered results in line with expectations 
and continued to execute our growth agenda. All of these 
achievements are due to our employees and on behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank them for all of their hard work,  
their commitment and focus.
Outlook
Based on current market conditions, and on an organic 
constant currency basis, we expect first half revenues to reflect 
a similar percentage reduction to that experienced in the full 
year of 2015. Due to reduced sales volumes we expect first half 
margins to be around 250 basis points lower than the first half 
of 2015. The benefits of restructuring activities, combined with 
normal business phasing, are expected to result in improved 
revenues and margins in the second half of the year.
Strategic Review Year 0:  
The hard work  
begins
Year 1:  
Increased 
investment
Year 2:  
Benefits starting 
to show
Strategic timeline
Supported by value enhancing acquisitions
2014 2015 2016
12 IMI plc
1  
Capitalising on  
significant organic 
growth opportunities
We already operate in a 
number of attractive end-
markets and we intend to 
focus on those that offer the 
greatest potential in terms 
of delivering top and bottom 
line growth. These end-
markets include those where 
we already are, or have the 
potential to be, in a leading 
position, markets where we 
can grow and where there 
are significant higher margin 
aftermarket opportunities.  
Our current market positioning 
and the growth targets we 
have set are detailed on  
pages 16 and 17.
3  
Increased investment  
in product  
development
We are increasing our 
investment in product 
development, a key enabler 
of our growth plan, which is to 
build sustainable competitive 
advantage. Progressively we 
will increase R&D spend from 
around 3% of revenue in 2014 
to 5% over the next few years. 
To ensure that we maximise 
the benefits of this increased 
investment, we are improving 
our product development 
processes and systems and 
further detail is contained on 
pages 22 and 23.
Strategic growth priorities
Our strategic plan, which was first presented to the market in the summer of 2014, outlined our 
objective to accelerate growth and focuses on the following key priorities:
2  
Improving operational  
performance 
The benefits of moving 
towards and achieving best in 
class operational performance 
are significant. As we improve 
how our businesses operate 
we will better utilise capacity, 
enhance our competitiveness, 
reduce working capital and 
generate cost savings by 
operating more efficiently. Our 
ambition is to progressively 
self-fund our organic growth 
initiatives using the benefits 
generated from our 
operational improvements. 
Details about how we are 
improving operational 
performance are set out  
on pages 18 to 21.
4  
Expand addressable 
markets through 
targeted acquisitions
We plan to supplement our 
organic growth opportunities 
with targeted acquisitions 
capable of producing 
returns in excess of the 
Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital within three 
years. Beyond our existing 
business portfolio, our 
review has identified the 
potential to double the 
Group’s addressable market 
by making acquisitions in 
adjacent non-valve product 
markets. Further details of 
our acquisition strategy are 
detailed on page 24.  Strategic enablers
Year 3:  
Nearly firing on 
all cylinders
Year 4:  
Up to full 
speed
Year 5:  
Double  
operating profits
Work together as one  
simplified IMI
T o harness the Group’ s full potential 
we remain determined to channel 
and maximise our scale to act as one 
IMI. Establishing core processes has 
provided a strong platform that underpins 
a framework for creating consistent 
Group–wide standards and behaviours. 
The global intranet, that all employees 
regardless of location, are able to access, 
was established last year and enjoys 
substantial and growing usage as our 
businesses share best practice and 
establish rigorous processes that improve 
competitiveness and profitability. 
In 2015, all Group businesses adopted a 
standard IMI branding enabling a coherent 
go to market approach under a single  
IMI umbrella. 
Invest in Group-wide IT  
and infrastructure
The programme to equip our businesses 
with effective IT has begun with the first 
sites either launched or on track to do so 
across all three of the Group’ s operating 
divisions. This commitment, alongside 
selective investment to upgrade or 
replace our manufacturing facilities, and 
our on-going initiatives, is a pre-requisite 
to achieving our strategic goals.
IT implementations are being phased on  
a site by site basis to minimise risk and 
deliver an optimal solution. Overall capital 
spending is progressively increasing to 
closer to two times depreciation where  
it will remain for the first few years of  
the plan. 
Maintain financial  
discipline
As we execute our strategy to deliver 
accelerated growth, we will continue to 
maintain financial discipline. Capital will 
be allocated to drive organic growth, 
maintain a progressive dividend policy in 
line with earnings and fund acquisitions. 
Whilst retaining flexibility to develop  
IMI’ s full potential, we will continue to 
focus on maintaining an efficient balance 
sheet and, in the event of us having  
cash in excess of the Group’ s current 
needs, we will return this excess capital 
to shareholders. Through the life of our 
five year plan we will work to maintain  
net debt to EBITDA of no more than  
two times through the cycle.
2017 2018 2019
Financial discipline will support our strategy 
for accelerated growth over the life of our  
five year plan
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA
Investments in IT, E-commerce and intranets 
improve Group-wide communication
The Group’s core manufacturing operations 
have improved considerably in 2015
New image
To deliver our strategic growth objectives while capitalising on the geographic and operational 
capabilities of the Group we have outlined the following key strategic enablers:
13
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review
2015 2014
0.9
0.6
0.3 Business priorities
•  Capitalise on attractive growth in  
existing markets
 >  Our goal is 6-8% organic compound  
average growth rate over five years
• Invest to support growth markets
 >   New larger sites in Houston, Italy and  
Korea now complete 
 >  Commenced the refurbishment of IMI Z&J  
site in Germany
 >   Investing in additional service locations  
to support aftermarket
• Enhance systems and processes 
 > New product development
 >  Project execution benchmarking and  
implementation of Obeya methodology
 >  ERP system launched in Czech Republic  
and progressing well at IMI CCI 
• Acquisitions to support growth
 >  Add strategically aligned bolt-ons  
such as Bopp & Reuther acquired in  
January 2015 
 > Extend into adjacent markets
 >  Expand product portfolio - semi-severe  
and configured valves
•  Fix the basics in the next two years
 >  Simplify organisational structure
 >  Introduced standard costing
•  New ERP launched in Brazil and first 
USA site with the balance of USA 
underway and on track
•  Grow emerging market local 
manufacturing content
 >  Address supply chain complexity
 > Manufacture closer to end customers
•  Increase plant utilisation
 >  Significantly improve operational  
performance
•  Revitalise industrial automation  
and grow organically
 >  New product development
 >  Our goal is growth in line with market in  
years one and two and 6-8% organic  
CAGR thereafter
•  Acquisitions
 >  Future opportunity for larger acquisitions  
to accelerate growth
•  Capitalise on attractive growth in  
existing markets
 >  Our goal is >5% organic CAGR over  
five years
• Increase new product development
 >  15 new products launched in 2015
 >   Double investment in new product 
development over five years
 >   15 new products planned for 2016
• Optimise organisational structure
 >  Introduce core processes
 >   Project underway to implement new  
divisional ERP system
• Acquisitions
 >  Potential bolt-on acquisitions in Europe  
and larger targets in North America
Focus and grow Fix, focus and grow Focus and grow
For each of the divisions we initially developed and have now fine-tuned our five year plans 
to be closely aligned to the ambitions of the Group. These plans are now fully embedded 
within each division and are already beginning to deliver real progress. The key strategic 
priorities for each division are as follows:
14 IMI plc
Executive Committee
*
Executive biographies
www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/executive-committee
Mark Selway
Chief Executive
Daniel Shook
Finance Director 
From 1 March 2015* 
Peter Spencer
Divisional Managing 
Director, IMI Hydronic 
Engineering
Massimo Grassi
Divisional Managing 
Director, IMI Precision 
Engineering
Paul Roberts
Group Business 
Development Director
Geoff Tranfield
Group Human 
Resources Director
John O’Shea
Group Legal Director 
and Company 
Secretary
Roy Twite
Divisional Managing 
Director, IMI Critical 
Engineering
*Douglas Hurt was the Finance Director and a member of the Executive Committee until 28 February 2015  15
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
MANUFACTURE & SELL (CROSS-SELL) ?? PRODUCTS LOREM IPSUM 
Manufacturing and selling innovative products and services to our chosen markets
Capturing aftermarket opportunities for spares, support and service
1. Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities 
2. Improving operational performance 
4. Expand addressable markets through targeted acquisitions 
3. Increased investment in product development
Our ambition:
• to become a world-class business  
 and leader in our chosen sectors
 
• to deliver sustainable accelerated  
 top and bottom line growth
• to double the Group’s 2014   
 operating profits by 2019
Goal
Organisation 
structure
How we 
generate 
our revenue
Strategic 
growth 
priorities
Strategic 
enablers
IMI business model
Engineering GREAT
the IMI Way
Strategic Review
Our business model is built around our core strategic priorities of capitalising on growth 
opportunities, operational excellence, investment in product development and targeted 
acquisitions. Continuous investment in these areas will deliver improved, more innovative 
products and services to our customers and help us increase our competitive advantage.  
By meeting our customers’ needs and investing in our leading market positions, we are  
well placed to grow profitably to the benefit of all stakeholders including our shareholders. The Group currently operates in attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we 
must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom 
line growth. Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have 
the potential to be, in a leading position – markets where we can grow and where there are 
significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
Strategy in action
1. Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities
Market and positioning
16 IMI plc
Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences
Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality
We are the world 
leading supplier of 
engineered to order 
turbine bypass valves 
for critical applications in 
conventional and nuclear 
power plants – helping to 
provide the safest, most 
reliable and efficient  
power generation.
2015 Revenue: £259m
In 2015, IMI Critical Engineering had £57m of other revenue.
We supply high 
performance products 
including valves, valve 
islands, proportional 
and pressure monitoring 
controls and air 
preparation products, as 
well as a comprehensive 
range of pneumatic 
actuators.
2015 Revenue: £392m
Our hydronic balancing 
and control solutions 
enable buildings to keep 
comfort at the right level 
and lift HVAC efficiency  
by up to 30%. Our 
expertise covers constant 
and variable flow and  
both static and  
dynamic balancing.
2015 Revenue: £135m
We supply anti-surge 
valve and actuator 
systems to the world’ s 
largest LNG compression 
facilities. Our systems 
are capable of ultra-fast 
response to maximise 
LNG production  
while protecting  
the compressor .
2015 Revenue: £185m
We design and 
manufacture a range 
of cab chassis and 
powertrain solutions 
which deliver fuel 
efficiency , emissions 
reduction and faster 
assembly times for 
the world’ s leading 
commercial vehicle 
manufacturers.
2015 Revenue: £158m
We design and 
manufacture thermostatic 
control systems which 
guarantee direct or 
automatic control of 
radiators and underfloor 
heating systems to 
perfectly control individual 
room temperatures. 
2015 Revenue: £89m
We design and 
manufacture integrated 
flow control systems 
for critical applications 
in Fluid Catalytic 
Cracking. We also supply 
bespoke valves into the 
ethylene, polypropylene 
and delayed coking 
production processes.
2015 Revenue: £98m
We offer a comprehensive 
range of products which 
deliver precision control 
in even the harshest 
environments, including 
stainless steel valves and 
regulators, nuclear class 
valves and emergency 
shutdown controls.
2015 Revenue: £62m
Reliable pressurisation is 
a basic requirement for 
a trouble-free operation 
of heating, cooling and 
solar systems. Our 
robust range of pressure 
maintenance systems 
with compressors or 
pumps and expansion 
vessels maintains the right 
pressure in the system  
at all times. 
2015 Revenue: £29m
We focus on the design 
and production of 
complete actuation 
systems to operate 
industrial valves for 
the most demanding 
applications and 
processes in terms  
of forces, speed  
and accuracy .
2015 Revenue: £32m
We supply precision 
flow control solutions 
used in medical devices, 
diagnostic equipment 
and biotech and analytical 
instruments. Our products 
help to reduce the size 
of equipment, while 
enhancing accuracy , 
throughput and fluid 
control performance.
2015 Revenue: £50m
The single most 
important component 
in any hydronic system 
is the water itself. When 
compromised, the effects 
can be felt throughout the 
system. Our dirt and air 
separators and pressure-
step degassers protect 
the installation by keeping 
water free of micro-
bubbles and sludge.
2015 Revenue: £11m
• Almost £7bn addressable market 
• Attractive growth markets
•  Leadership position in power  
and potential to achieve in other  
key sectors
•  Barriers to entry provide excellent 
opportunity in high margin 
aftermarket
•  £14bn addressable market
•  Challenging competitive environment
•  Best in class returns but falling  
market shares
•  Significant potential in Industrial 
Automation 
 > leading brand
 > high margins from aftermarket
• £2bn addressable market opportunity
•  Low cyclicality due to resilience of 
refurbishment markets
•  Leadership position in core  
European markets
•  Best in class returns and as from  
2015 growing market shares Market position
Attractive higher growth markets with  
good competitive position.
Goal
Over the life of our five year strategic  
plan our goal is for an average organic 
growth rate of around 6 to 8%.
Market position
Attractive higher growth markets with  
good competitive position.
Goal
Our goal is to deliver compound organic 
growth in excess of 5% over the life of 
our five year plan.
Market position
Attractive higher growth markets with  
good competitive position.
Goal
Significantly improving operational 
performance and driving organic growth 
are our first priorities. As we focus on these 
priorities, during the first two years of our 
plan the goal is to grow at a rate in line with 
the market. Thereafter the goal is to grow 
at an average organic rate in the range of 
6 to 8%.
Roy T wite, Divisional Managing Director and Jackie Hu, 
President, IMI China sign the commitment for IMI Critical 
Engineering’ s new Shanghai facility
Precision Engineering’s industrial products will deliver 
new business opportunities in Rail
Hydronic Engineering’s new actuator product which 
launched in January 2015
17
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Building our presence in attractive 
markets that offer the greatest 
potential for growth – expanding  
our presence in China
In 2015, the IMI Board approved significant 
investment to enhance Critical Engineering’s 
footprint in mainland China, an attractive market 
with good long-term growth potential. With a 
greater presence in China, the division will be  
able to manufacture more of its products locally 
in a cost competitive way and be closer to its 
existing key customers and a range of potential 
new customers.
During the first quarter of 2015, the existing 
Critical Engineering manufacturing facility was 
transferred from Shanghai to the Qingpu Industrial 
Zone, which is west of Shanghai’s city centre. 
This facility has additional space and will be the 
base for Critical Engineering’s Chinese business 
until early 2018 when all manufacturing will move 
into a new purpose built facility, which will also 
be located in Qingpu. This new facility will cover 
130,000 square feet and include a dedicated 
research and development capability.
Capitalising on organic growth 
opportunities – identifying markets 
that offer best returns
In our Precision Engineering division and in line 
with our strategic plan, during 2015 we undertook 
a significant amount of work to identify the markets 
that offer the greatest potential for growth.
The Industrial Automation sector currently 
contributes more than half of the division’s 
revenues and operates across over 14 global end-
markets and a very large number of sub-regional 
markets. T o ensure that we properly harness the 
businesses’ potential, understanding the current 
landscape it operates within is essential. 
During the year we undertook a detailed review 
of Precision Engineering’s 56 businesses to build 
a comprehensive understanding of their markets, 
customers, products and competitors. Equipped 
with an accurate picture of the current position 
we were then able to identify those markets 
which have the greatest potential to deliver the 
best returns. Using this valuable information as 
our baseline, we have now developed plans 
to accelerate the division’s growth including 
detailed business specific plans for each region 
and product roadmaps that will underpin our 
sustainable competitive advantage.
Increasing addressable market – 
expanding product portfolio into 
adjacent markets
New product development is the cornerstone of 
Hydronic Engineering’s growth plan. In addition to 
developing next generation products to succeed 
the division’s existing product portfolio a great 
deal of work was undertaken during the year to 
identify new product ranges that will complement 
and expand Hydronic Engineering’s existing 
offering and enable the division to access  
new growth markets. 
In 2015, Hydronic Engineering began developing  
a new actuator product known as Slider. 
Using the division’s new product development 
processes, Slider was developed, manufactured 
and launched in just under twelve months. 
This new product, which is sold alongside the 
division’s valve products, provides accurate  
and efficient control of heating systems. 
To support the Slider launch, Hydronic 
Engineering created an innovative marketing 
campaign. The first phase of this campaign, 
which targets the division’s own sales team 
aiming to educate, motivate and excite them 
about the project, was rolled out successfully  
in the final quarter of 2015.
Strategic Review Lean assessments
2015 operational snapshot
•  Obeya room introduced in  
Critical Engineering to accelerate 
project execution
•  Hydronic Engineering’s Polish 
plant first to achieve world-class 
audit scores
•  Value engineering and competitor 
tear downs instituted across  
all divisions
Chart shows significant opportunity 
to improve competitiveness
Cultural 
Awareness
Visual Management 
& Housekeeping
Standardised 
Work
Flexible 
Operations
Continuous 
Improvement
Error 
Proofing
Quick 
Changeover
Total Productive 
Maintenance
Material 
Control
Level 
Production
The lean assessment score for every IMI site is available 
for all employees to view via the lean benchmarking 
application on the global intranet. Benchmarking identifies 
best practice within IMI and provides visibility of where  
to focus improvements and where to go for assistance  
to improve performance going forward.
18 IMI plc
Strategy in action
2. Improving operational performance
The benefits of moving towards and achieving best in class operational performance are very significant.  
As we improve how our businesses operate we will better utilise capacity, enhance our competitiveness, 
reduce working capital and generate cost savings by operating more efficiently. By doing this, we will also 
improve services for our customers. Our ambition is to progressively self-fund our organic growth initiatives 
using the benefits generated from our operational improvements. We are on a self-help lean journey, 
underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels as we believe this is the best  
way to sustain our achievements.
The operational performance of every site in the Group is benchmarked every six months against the ten 
areas of lean and significant progress has already been achieved. A world-class operational performance 
score is 85% or more. At the time of the first benchmark, none of our facilities came close to achieving this, 
with the highest score being 57%. At the most recent review, the average score reached 59%, with Hydronic 
Engineering’s Polish plant achieving a world-class score of 88%. All of our businesses continue to implement 
detailed plans to achieve world-class performance by 2018.
Fourth round assessment average lean scores by division
World-class > 85%
IMI Critical Engineering
IMI Precision Engineering
IMI Hydronic Engineering
During the course of 2015, our sites have been the subject of semi-annual assessments as we closely monitor the progress being 
made with lean. Improvements to date have been encouraging with average Group scores rising from 31% at the first assessment  
to 59% at the latest review. Most gratifying has been the collaboration across sites and divisions to achieve that progress which  
itself is indicative of an important and promising shift in Group culture.  During the year, Critical Engineering 
significantly enhanced its project 
management capabilities by introducing 
a new tool called Obeya at many of its  
17 sites around the world. Obeya, from 
the Japanese word meaning ‘big room’, 
is a dedicated space within a production 
facility which provides a detailed visual 
overview of the entire production 
process from customer order through  
to customer delivery.
Every member of the team involved  
in the design, development and 
manufacture of one of Critical 
Engineering’ s complex bespoke valves 
has access to Obeya and uses the tool 
to review and track not only their own 
area of responsibility but every stage  
of the entire production process. 
Using Obeya, bottlenecks in production 
can be easily identified, spare capacity  
in the process flagged and likely delays 
anticipated and, as a consequence, 
avoided. As a result, stock levels and 
work in progress can be reduced and  
on time delivery improved. Furthermore 
the comprehensive overview of the entire 
process, that Obeya provides, enables 
the plant’ s production process effectively 
to be set to the customer’s timetable 
ensuring on time delivery and  
customer satisfaction. 
The Obeya room process provides real time information 
to better manage even the most complex projects 
Site key:
1 IMI CCI Korea
2 IMI CCI Brno 
3 IMI CCI RSM
4 IMI STI
5 IMI CCI Japan
6 IMI InterAtiva
7 IMI CCI SriCity
8 IMI Fluid Kinetics
9 IMI CCI Sweden
10 IMI Remosa
11  IMI Critical 
Engineering 
Houston
12  IMI Orton
13 IMI Z&J Germany
14  IMI Truflo Rona 
Belgium
15  IMI Truflo Marine
16 IMI SSF
17  IMI Bopp & 
Reuther
Strengthening our operational capabilities – new project management 
tool increases operational agility and customer responsiveness
19
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review
2015 Year end 
assessment score 
(average 56%)
First assessment 
1H 2014  
(average 26%)
2014 Year end 
(average 40%)
Year end target  
(average 56%)
% score
1 11 Site 3 13 5 15 7
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
2 12 4 14 6 16 8 9 10 17 Building strong foundations for future growth – driving 
efficiency through simplification 
In line with our strategic plan, much of  
our work in 2015 and during this year is 
aimed at making a very fragmented and 
complex business simpler to manage 
particularly in terms of structure and  
day-to-day operations.
A key part of this simplification process is 
rationalising our existing product portfolio 
to reduce waste and complexity, eliminate 
duplication and create space in the 
portfolio for new products. In 2015 we 
launched a project to significantly reduce 
the number of products in Precision 
Engineering’s European business. At the 
start of the project the European product 
portfolio included 450,000 products of 
which 13,500 represented 80% of sales. 
Many products were no longer sold to 
customers while others were sold in very 
small volumes. As a result, our portfolio 
contained a large number of redundant 
products driving unnecessary complexity 
and heightened levels of inventory and 
working capital. 
During 2015 excellent progress was  
made in rationalising the product portfolio. 
Approximately 295,000 products were 
eliminated and the division is well on  
track to remove a further 50,000.  
Most importantly, this project has been 
delivered without any material impact  
on day-to-day business. 
Building on the success of the Europe 
product rationalisation project, similar 
projects are now being implemented 
across the division’s North American  
and Asian operations.
Excellent progress is being made across Precision 
Engineering sites to reduce complexity and combine 
assembly operations  
20 IMI plc
% score
80
70
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10
1
Site key:
1 IMI Norgren Seattle
2 IMI Norgren Brno
3 IMI FAS Switzerland
4  IMI Nor gr en 
Australia
5 IMI Norgren India
6 IMI Norgren China
7  IMI Nor gr en 
Singapore
8  IMI EDC Warehouse 
Alpen
9 IMI Watson Smith
10  IMI Thompson 
Valves
11 IMI Buschjost
12  IMI Nor gr en 
Germany Fellbach
13  IMI Nor gr en 
Germany Alpen
14  IMI Nor gr en 
Queretaro
15  IMI Norgren Fradley
16  IMI W ebber
17  IMI Nor gr en 
Warehouse 
Louisville
18  IMI Nor gr en 
Farmington
19 IMI Norgren Detroit
20 IMI Norgren Kloehn
21  IMI Nor gr en 
Littleton
22  IMI Nor gr en 
Brookville
23  IMI Norgren Brazil
24 IMI IMF
25  IMI Nor gr en 
Denmark
26  IMI Herion 
Systemtechnik
27  IMI Nor gr en 
Belgium
7 13 19 25 27 2 8 14 20 3 9 15 21 4 10 16 22 5 11 17 23 6 12 18 24 26 Site
First assessment  
1H 2014  
(average 32%)
2015 Year end 
assessment score 
(average 59%)
2014 Year end 
(average 46%) 
Year end target 
(average 60%) Achieving operational excellence – becoming more efficient 
and more competitive 
Improving operational performance  
will help our businesses improve their 
competitiveness and achieve their 
growth ambitions. Each of our 50 
facilities around the world are working 
towards world-class operational 
performance and during the year 
Hydronic Engineering’ s Polish plant in 
Olkusz, near Krakow was the first to 
achieve this significant milestone.
We assess operational performance 
using the renowned lean benchmarking 
system. When the Olkusz plant was first 
assessed two years ago, it recorded a 
score of 53%, which was considerably 
below a world-class performance  
score of 85% or more. A most recent 
assessment of the Olkusz facility resulted 
in a lean score of 88%, and the benefits 
are very evident. The plant’s original 
production line is now more efficient.  
It also operates on a smaller footprint 
freeing up additional capacity which has 
enabled a second production line to  
be installed without the need for any 
additional floor space. Inventory turns 
across the division have increased from 
four to nine and the installed capacity  
is better utilised. Furthermore, customer 
responsiveness has improved significantly 
with on time delivery now at 91% 
compared with 82% 18 months ago.
A continuous improvement culture is 
now embedded throughout the Olkusz 
facility. While the team have secured 
world-class operational status, 
maintaining momentum and further 
improving the plant’s operational 
performance to increase the division’ s 
competitiveness, remains an  
on-going target. 
Employee involvement and daily ‘tool box’ talks  
improve communication 
21
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
% score
100
90 
80
70
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10
Site key:
1 IMI Hydronic Poland
2 IMI Hydronic Slovenia
3 IMI Hydronic Sweden
4 IMI Hydronic Germany
5 IMI Hydronic Switzerland
6 IMI Hydronic North America
Strategic Review
2015 Year end 
assessment score 
(average 72%)
First assessment 
1H 2014  
(average 37%)
2014 Year end 
(average 59%)
Year end target 
(average 69%)
1 2 3 4 5 6 Site Engineering  
GREAT Solutions
The development of rigorous and standardised processes in different functions is an initiative 
of fundamental importance at IMI, no more so than in New Product Development. At the 
beginning of 2015 we launched a new Group-wide advanced product quality planning (‘APQP’) 
process and a more standardised approach to the computer assisted design (‘CAD’) systems and 
procedures that we use across the Group.
Advanced product quality planning (‘APQP’)
On 1 January 2015, we launched a new Group-wide APQP process which, for 
the first time, provides a standardised stage gate structure for all new product 
development projects. The goal of APQP is to deliver projects on time, to the required 
quality, at the agreed cost and in the most efficient way possible. A crucial element  
of the process is the creation of a cross-functional team, including representatives 
from all necessary functions including sales, R&D, engineering, procurement, 
operations and finance.
APQP timing plan
Computer assisted design (‘CAD’)
We are rationalising the number of CAD systems that we use as part of the new product development process. Going forward we will 
use two core systems which enable both 3D modelling and detailed two dimensional drawings. By harmonising the systems we will 
ensure consistency of approach across the product development process and also benefit from economies of scale by purchasing 
Group-wide solutions.
Idea/ 
concept
Programme 
approval
Programme 
readiness
Confirmation  
prototype
Design 
freeze
Launch 
readiness
Launch 
sign off
Job 1
Planning
Product design and development
Process design and development
Product and process validation
Production
Feedback assessment and corrective actions
IMI Critical Engineering, Korea IMI Precision Engineering, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering, Poland
The APQP manual is a 
guideline for project teams  
to ensure that the process  
of new product development 
and introduction is efficient 
and brings added value to 
the customer.
22 IMI plc
Strategy in action
3. Increasing investment in new product development Driving organic growth – 
maintaining competitiveness and 
market-leading positions through 
new product development
Capitalising on Hydronic Engineering’ s 
leading market positions across Europe, 
new product development is the 
cornerstone of the division’ s growth plan. 
Since 2014, 29 new products have been 
developed and launched and today 
generate over 10% of the division’ s revenue. 
One of these new products is Eclipse,  
the next generation automatic thermostatic 
radiator valve that accurately and silently 
controls room temperatures. Eclipse was 
successfully launched in March 2015  
at the ISH Exhibition in Frankfurt, the 
world’ s leading trade fair for innovative 
building solutions. 
Customer reaction to this new product 
has been excellent. 500,000 valves were 
sold in the first five months of the product’ s 
life, a dramatic improvement in demand 
compared to the product that preceded 
Eclipse, which sold only 100,000 units 
during its lifetime. In addition, a number 
of large European wholesalers have 
expressed interest in Eclipse and, as 
a result, Hydronic Engineering has 
developed a new sales strategy using 
wholesalers as a distribution channel in 
those markets where the division currently 
does not have a strong presence. This 
new sales strategy came to fruition 
in November 2015 when Hydronic 
Engineering entered into its first wholesale 
contract with one of Europe’ s largest 
distributors of building parts and materials. 
Underpinning Eclipse’s success are a 
number of new product development 
procedures which have enabled this 
product to be developed and launched 
in eleven months, a process that would 
have previously taken around four years.
Technical expertise and 
innovation delivers  
significant contracts 
During the year Critical Engineering won 
eight separate contracts to supply valves 
and actuators for Yamal LNG project,  
one of the largest industrial projects in the 
Arctic. Yamal LNG is based in the estuary 
of the Ob River in Northern Siberia and 
is ice bound for nine months of the 
year. Given this extremely challenging 
environment, the division’s valves 
were selected for a number of reasons 
including their ability to withstand 
temperatures below -162 celsius.
IMI Remosa, part of the Critical 
Engineering division, secured several 
multi-million euro contracts to supply, 
fluidised catalytic cracking valves to a 
refinery and petrochemical integrated 
development (‘RAPID’) in the Southern 
Johor region of Malaysia. RAPID will 
cover an area of 2,000 hectares and will 
include a refinery capable of producing 
300,000 barrels a day. The petrochemical 
complex, using the latest technologies 
and adhering to the most stringent 
environmental regulations, will produce 
highly specialised products such as 
polyethylene, polypropylene  
and synthetic rubbers. 
Driving organic growth through 
new product development – 
responding to market potential
For the first time in eight years Precision 
Engineering is preparing to launch a new 
Industrial Automation product range 
which will progressively come to market 
from the later part of 2016.
In 2015, building on the extensive work 
undertaken to assess the potential of 
the division’s Industrial Automation 
business new product roadmaps 
were created. A number of Industrial 
Automation product concepts are now 
being developed using new processes 
and procedures, including competitor 
product benchmarking which involves 
the physical tear down of competitors’ 
products to examine the differences 
and identify product advancement 
opportunities. Teams from Hydronic 
Engineering, who have introduced 29 
new products to market in the past 
two years, have worked closely with 
the Precision Engineering product 
development teams, sharing best 
practice and practical guidance  
based on their own experiences.
 
Following the successful roll-out 
of the new product development 
process across Precision Engineering’s 
Industrial Automation business, similar 
processes will be initiated in the division’s 
Commercial Vehicle, Rail and Life 
Science businesses during 2016. 
Case studies on-line
www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action
23
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Our acquisition strategies for each of the divisions are as follows: 
We continue to target bolt-on acquisitions 
to expand our product range and our 
geographic footprint within our existing 
markets and to extend our presence into 
adjacent attractive markets, particularly 
where there is an attractive aftermarket 
business available. We will also consider 
expanding our product range to include 
semi-severe and configured opportunities 
in each of our key sectors. In 2015 we 
acquired and successfully integrated 
Bopp & Reuther (‘B&R’).
The growth opportunities within Precision 
Engineering remain significant. However, 
readying the business to maximise these 
opportunities was always going to take 
time. The first phase of our plan has 
focused on simplifying the organisation, 
implementing robust systems and 
improving operational performance.  
Once the division is operating optimally 
we will look to supplement growth by 
targeting larger scale acquisitions.
Although the growth plan in our Hydronic 
Engineering division is predominantly 
organically focused, there is potential to 
enhance the division through acquisition. 
Any addition would need to satisfy 
stringent criteria but there are 
opportunities including, in particular,  
to build critical mass in the North 
American market.
Strategy in action
4. Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions
• North America
• Europe
• Latin America
• Asia
• Aftermarket >30%
• Growth rate >5% pa
• Customer intimacy
• Barriers to entry
• Criticality of application
• Predictable aftermarket
• Potential to double addressable market
• Leverage existing positions in attractive end-markets 
• Non-valve related products and businesses
Geographies Market dynamics Products 
Broadening the acquisition universe
We will supplement our organic growth initiatives with targeted acquisitions, capable of 
producing returns in excess of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital within three years. 
Beyond our existing business portfolio, we have identified the potential to double the Group’s 
addressable market by making acquisitions in adjacent non-valve product markets.  
Criteria for such acquisitions include a focus on North American revenues, strong  
aftermarket dynamics and critical products that create significant barriers to entry.
24 IMI plc Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review
IMI CCI Control valves 
ready for customer 
witness testing at IMI 
Critical Engineering’s site 
in the Czech Republic
25 Health & Safety
The health and safety of our employees is 
paramount. We also have a duty to protect 
those who work with us, including our 
customers, suppliers, contractors and visitors 
who may be affected by what we do and the 
environment in which we operate.
Our ambition is to achieve world-class health 
and safety performance in all of our operations 
and in 2015 we made good progress towards 
achieving this goal. During the year we 
significantly improved the predictive elements 
of our safety programme. However this overall 
good performance was overshadowed to 
some degree by the integration of Bopp & 
Reuther which resulted in a slight deterioration 
in the number of lost time accidents when 
compared to the excellent results achieved  
in 2014. 
Recognising the challenges of integrating 
newly acquired businesses into the IMI safety 
culture, we have taken action to improve our 
health and safety awareness and levels of 
management oversight across the entire 
Group. Dovetailing into our lean benchmarking 
and operational improvements initiative, we 
have introduced twice-yearly ‘Lean-HSE’ 
assessments for all manufacturing sites which 
have resulted in significant improvements in the 
elimination of hazards and the visual safety of 
our facilities. Specifically at Bopp & Reuther we 
are making excellent progress in our work with 
the local Bopp & Reuther team to ensure we 
bring their performance up to IMI standards. 
Through the year we continued to build on the 
already strong safety culture in the Group and 
in 2015 we delivered over 95,000 hours of 
HS&E training in addition to the 300,000 hours 
delivered in the previous three years. 
Across the Group, our divisional HSE teams 
continued to focus on rigorous root-cause 
investigations of lost time accidents, including 
where appropriate safety alerts being issued 
across the Group to highlight the incident, 
identify the causal factors and instruct 
mitigating actions to reduce the likelihood of 
reoccurrence. This sharing of best practice 
remains a fundamental component of our 
safety performance. 
During the year we also improved our incident 
reporting and communication tools to improve 
sharing and escalation to senior management 
in a more robust and real time way.
IMI employees are at the centre of our ambition to  
become world-class
Mark Selway
Chief Executive
26 IMI plc
“Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business, a genuine leader in all the areas in 
which we operate. We will do this by harnessing our engineering heritage and building IMI into  
a truly great company - one that thinks long-term, delivers profitable sustainable growth, 
invests in its future, is preferred by all stakeholders including employees, customers and 
investors and at all times conducts itself in an ethical and responsible manner.
At the heart of building IMI into a truly great company is The IMI Way which sets out our values – 
excellence, innovation, integrity and collaboration – and embraces our commitment to continually 
improve through the sharing of best practice and the on-going collaboration and development  
of our people. It also addresses all aspects of the way we conduct our business and the high 
standards of ethics and integrity we expect of our employees, including the impact we have  
on the environment and the communities we operate in.”
Corporate Responsibility
Our approach The application of lean creates HSE discipline Visual management is a key component in  
HSE improvements
A formalised approach to problem solving
Code on-line 
www.imiplc.com/corporate-responsibility
27
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Business integrity & ethics
The IMI Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) sets 
out the standards we expect everyone 
in the Group to comply with and covers 
those areas of good governance that we 
consider essential to operating an ethical 
business with the highest levels of integrity. 
It includes workplace conduct, anti-bribery, 
anti-corruption and fair market competition. 
The Code was reviewed in 2014 to bring it 
in line with the Group’s purpose and values 
and all employees participated in face-to-
face refresher training on the Code and the 
importance of ethical behaviour at this year’s 
annual IMI Way Day. The Code was further 
reinforced at the 2015 divisional and Group 
senior leadership conferences with case 
study workshops and specific policy training 
undertaken throughout the Group.
IMI has a long standing, well-developed 
whistleblowing policy that encourages 
employees to speak up when they see 
conduct that does not accord with the 
Code. Where normal channels may not be 
appropriate we provide an easily accessible, 
confidential and independently operated 
reporting hotline in more than 20 languages 
which enables employees to raise issues 
anonymously. A key foundation of the policy 
is that employees making reports through 
any channel and in good faith should have no 
fear of retaliation. Our Ethics and Compliance 
Committee meets monthly to review hotline 
reports and is chaired by Geoff Tranfield, 
Group Human Resources Director. During 
2015, 97 cases were reported which was 
lower than the previous year (2014: 103 cases).
We operate a supplier evaluation process 
which assesses our suppliers to provide 
assurance that they comply with the 
provisions contained within the Code  
and our Supply Chain Policy.
Environment
Our technologies continue to help our 
customers respond to a variety of global 
environmental challenges, including climate 
change, resource scarcity and urbanisation. 
In our day-to-day business operations, 
we remain committed to minimising the 
environmental impact of our business 
operations and continuously improving  
our energy efficiency. 
The recent European Union Energy Efficiency 
Directive (‘EED’) included a requirement for UK 
businesses to undertake independent energy 
surveys in its major European operations.  
This initiative supports what IMI has been 
doing voluntarily for a number of years and 
provides a useful addition to our internal 
projects. The surveys were carried out at 
representative sites from each of our divisions 
across several European countries and were 
coordinated centrally to maximise efficiency. 
We have reviewed all of the recommendations 
from the individual site surveys and in 2016 
will roll out a programme of improvements to 
leverage the benefits across all relevant IMI 
sites. Due to the surveys being carried out at 
a variety of sites in several countries, they will 
provide a good cross section of opportunities.
Our 2015 gross CO
2
e emissions have reduced 
by 2% to 61,250 tonnes compared with 
the previous year (2014: 62,500 tonnes). 
There has been a slight deterioration in our 
normalised total CO
2
e intensity metric from 
37.4 tonnes per £million sales in 2014 to  
39.5 in 2015.
In 2013 we targeted to reduce our emissions by 
7.5% over a three year period, from the baseline 
set in 2012, both in terms of gross emissions 
and emissions intensity. In 2015 we achieved 
this ambitious target. Overall, we have reduced 
both gross CO
2
e emissions and normalised 
CO
2
e emissions intensity by 13.7% and  
13.8% respectively. 
Our target for 2016 is to embed these 
efficiency gains and make our 2015 emissions 
the minimum baseline performance. In 
addition, we will look to make continuous 
improvements in all of our businesses as we 
implement the improvements identified in our 
EED energy audits and share those learnings 
across our non-European sites.
For further information please refer to 
page 134 of the Directors’ Report. 
Community
We have a significant presence around the 
world and in addition to benefits from creating 
jobs and investment we believe we should 
directly contribute through relevant charitable 
and educational community programmes.  
In addition to the Group charitable donations 
policy, where we support a range of national 
and international causes, some of our 
business units have relationships with  
charities that are local to their operating sites.
In 2015, Precision Engineering’s business 
at Vimercate, Italy identified that the local 
school’s fencing was in urgent need of 
refurbishment. Small teams from all across the 
business – both senior and junior employees 
– repaired and painted the fencing over the 
course of a long, hard but very rewarding 
day. Their efforts attracted the appreciation 
of local residents and its newspaper, with a 
recognition letter of thanks received from the 
Mayor of Vimercate. 
The IMI Hydronic team in Slovenia got stuck 
in to provide a fresh new look and much 
needed handicraft supplies for Ozara - a 
local organisation for the disabled. The team 
worked on renovating the organisation 
premises, where up to 30 disabled members 
of the community have a workshop and make 
a variety of hand crafted products to sell. 
Ozara provides the mentally and physically 
handicapped with a meeting and creative 
space to re-integrate into the community. 
The renovation of the premises provided a 
much needed facelift and a brighter working 
environment – much to the delight of 
everyone there. 
A combined team of around 200 staff from 
IMI headquarters and IMI Critical Engineering 
and Group, attended a project at Newlands 
Bishop Farm, a facility that helps young 
people and adults with mental health issues, 
learning disabilities, brain injuries and physical 
disabilities to learn work based skills in a real 
work environment. The IMI team spent an 
afternoon helping to create a beach garden, 
develop an outdoor play space and decking 
for their outdoor café along with general 
maintenance such as painting and repairing 
different areas around the site. 
Strategic Review Geoff Tranfield 
Group Human  
Resources Director 
CM Merrimon 
President,  
IMI CCI Americas
Qamar Hashmi 
Quality Manager,  
Watson Smith,  
Precision Engineering
“I joined IMI in February 2009 and 
attended my first IMI Leadership 
programme in 2010. This year 
I was one of the first people to 
participate in ‘Leading the Way to 
Engineering Great’ our new leadership 
programme. This new programme, 
which is more closely aligned to our 
growth plan, links our role and 
objectives as leaders to the Group’s five 
year strategy and there is a particular 
focus on better understanding our 
customers and markets. Working in 
small groups, with excellent coaching 
support and the expectation of “teach 
back” to our teams, really helped 
us embed our learning from the 
programme back into our businesses 
and our day-to-day managerial roles.”
“Seeing how passionate the senior 
executives are about the business was 
inspiring. I learned how important 
it is for me to communicate clearly 
and how to develop my team through 
coaching and feedback.”
“The steady progress we made during the year on our strategic plan is primarily down to the 
hard work and dedication of our employees around the world. To ensure that this progress 
is maintained and to position IMI for accelerated sustainable growth, we recognise the need 
to continue to attract good people, strengthen our talent pipeline and ensure that we have the 
relevant skills and experiences to serve our customers well. We continue to focus on ensuring 
that we provide a working environment within which our people can develop, understand the 
contribution they make and be fully engaged.”
Attracting good people and strengthening  
our talent pipeline
During 2015 we launched a number of new and updated development 
programmes across the Group. 
Following a detailed review in 2014, which was undertaken by a diverse cross- 
divisional team which took account of feedback from past and present recruits, 
we launched an updated graduate programme. The main changes were two-fold: 
firstly the programme, which was previously focused on developing leadership 
and managerial skills, was realigned to support our strategy and, in particular, 
recruit and develop the best engineering talent capable of delivering new products 
and world-class customer service, both of which are key elements of our organic 
growth plan. Secondly, to replace the former Group-wide single scheme and 
increase our international mix and level of hiring, our three divisions have each 
developed their own programme tailored to meet their specific needs. In an 
increasingly competitive environment this bespoke approach ensures that our 
graduate recruits quickly gain a deep understanding of our customers, their needs 
and the markets in which they operate. Equipped with this in-depth knowledge  
and benefitting from at least one placement outside their home country, our 
graduates will be better able to contribute to their businesses from an early  
stage in their career. 
During the year we introduced a new leadership development programme which 
is also aligned to IMI’s strategy and its objective is to develop relevant skills and 
leadership capabilities to support the Group’s growth plan. Senior managers from 
around the Group participated in the inaugural programme which was launched  
in July 2015.
‘Being a GREAT IMI Manager’, our new management and supervisory programme 
was also launched in November and will be rolled out globally in 2016 to over 
200 of our supervisors and managers. The programme’s objectives are to equip 
managers and supervisors with the skills to manage their people and their part  
of the business.
Graduate induction 2015
28 IMI plc
Corporate Responsibility
Our people Engaging effectively with 
employees 
In response to employee requests for 
improved communication, we have 
further invested in our Group intranet 
and to date we have had over four 
million hits from employees who use 
the tool on a daily basis to facilitate 
collaboration with other parts of the 
Group and share best practice. During 
the year each division also introduced 
their own divisional intranet platforms 
to improve the flow of communication 
between the businesses in each 
division. In addition our newsletter 
the IMI Eye, which covers news 
stories and updates about all our 
businesses, is produced twice a year 
and is distributed to employees and 
stakeholders across and outside  
the Group. 
Building on the work undertaken in 
2014 in relation to communicating IMI’s 
values to all our employees, in 2015 
we launched our IMI Way Behaviours 
which are below: 
 
These core IMI Behaviours have been 
communicated to all employees as 
part of the IMI Way Day (held in June 
2015) and are embedded in all our 
HR processes including performance 
management, recruitment, talent 
development and reward. We continue 
to hold the IMI Way Day annually and to 
seek feedback from employees through 
this and local pulse survey data.
 
them against benefits available in 
our sector globally to ensure that our 
offering is in line with market best 
practice. Our audit revealed that we 
operated a large number of varied 
schemes around the world including 
over 84 pension plans, 90 car policies 
and 89 health plans. Administration 
of these arrangements absorbed a 
significant amount of time and added 
an unnecessary layer of complexity  
in the day-to-day running of our  
HR operations.
During the year the number of schemes 
have been reduced significantly. For 
example, the 500 bonus schemes 
that previously operated have been 
rationalised and now only 15 incentive 
schemes exist across the whole of 
the Group, all of which are directly 
linked to IMI’s strategic growth plan. 
We have also standardised a number 
of procedures, including annual pay 
reviews, which are now harmonised, 
wherever practical, to take place on  
1 January every year. 
As we have reduced the number of 
schemes and simplified operating 
procedures administration has 
become easier and more efficient. 
Furthermore this rationalisation 
process will enable us to leverage  
the purchasing power of the Group to 
achieve the most competitive pricing. 
Already across the Group, through 
the rationalisation and simplification 
of pension plans, we have achieved 
savings and reduced our liability in  
this area. 
Serving our increasingly 
diverse customer base
We are a global business. To ensure 
that we deliver competitive products 
and solutions to our increasingly 
diverse customer base we must 
employ and retain people who have 
the best relevant skills, experience 
and ideas. We have a diverse Board 
in terms of gender and nationality and 
in our businesses we always seek to 
appoint and promote local talent. 
In 2014 we formally articulated our 
approach to diversity through the 
introduction of a revised diversity and 
inclusion policy. In 2015 and following 
the introduction of the revised policy, 
each of our divisions embedded in 
their businesses specific and relevant 
diversity objectives including setting 
recruitment targets for apprenticeships 
and graduate programmes. This 
work is progressing well and already 
delivering results. By way of example 
in 2015, through our graduate 
programme, we hired 28 new recruits,  
a third of which are female, from  
13 nationalities.
Operating more efficiently 
and transparently in our 
reward processes
Improving performance across all 
areas of our business by operating 
more efficiently is a key priority and a 
driver of our growth plan. Running our 
HR, finance and other functions across 
the Group in an efficient way is as 
important as operating our production 
facilities effectively. 
During 2015 we made good progress 
towards simplifying and harmonising 
the employee benefit schemes that 
operate across the Group. Working 
with Mercer, a specialist consultancy 
focused on employee rewards, we 
undertook a detailed internal audit of 
existing benefits and benchmarked 
Our new diversity policy and graduate recruitment plans 
will deliver benefits
29
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review
Our mindset
“Engineering GREAT together”
Behaviours:
Learn
Improve
Connect
Lead
Deliver 30 IMI plc
Business performance is measured through Group-wide targets and improvement measures.
Each IMI business participates in an annual round of planning meetings with the Executive 
Committee, during which performance and future plans for that business are reviewed and 
updated. These business plans have all been aligned with the Group’s strategy. The Key 
Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) set out below represent the financial and non-financial  
targets which are integral to the delivery of the new strategy. 
Organic revenue growth excludes the 
impact of acquisitions, disposals and 
foreign exchange movements. The 
revenues from acquisitions are only 
included in the current year for the period 
during which the revenues were also 
included in the prior period. In 2015, 
the Group’s continuing businesses 
experienced a drop in organic  
revenue of 5%. 
In 2015, Group segmental operating 
profit was £239m compared to £298m 
representing a reduction of 20% on a 
reported basis. On an organic basis, 
after adjusting for the adverse impact 
of exchange rates and acquisitions and 
disposals, segmental operating profit  
was lower by 15%.
Segmental operating profit
£321.6m £298.1m £239.4m
400
300
200
100
2013
Millions
2014 2015
Organic revenue growth
1% 2%
-5%
6
0
5
-1
4
-2
3
-3
2
-4
1
-5
-6 2013
%
2014 2015
Measurements and targets 31
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
During the year we continued to improve 
our operational performance and lean 
scores toward world-class. Our semi-
annual benchmarking process is now 
well embedded, and scores continue to 
reflect the improvement that has been 
executed. Our highest score is now 88% 
and the average has increased from 
31% when we first benchmarked the 
business in 2014 to 59% in the  
fourth assessment.
The health and safety of all our 
employees remains paramount. We 
measure our progress in this area by 
tracking our >1 day lost time accident 
frequency rate (‘LTA rate’). In 2015,  
our LTA rate increased relative to 2014. 
The inclusion of Bopp & Reuther from 
January 2015 negatively impacted the 
result and we continue to work with the 
Bopp & Reuther local team to ensure  
we bring their performance up to  
IMI standards.
Health & Safety
Lost time accident rate
0.13 0.11 0.14
0.3
0.25
0.2
0.15
0.1
0.05
2013 2014 2015
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) is 
defined as segmental operating profit 
after tax divided by capital employed. 
In 2015 ROCE was 14.3% which 
compares to 18.3% in 2014 and reflects 
the reduced operating profit impacted  
by market headwinds. For the purposes 
of the long-term incentive plan the  
Group uses the segmental operating 
profit divided by operating assets which 
equate to 71% (2013), 58% (2014) and 
46% (2015).
Return on capital employed
19.7% 31% 18.3% 46% 14.3% 59%
20
15
10
5
2013 First 
assessment
%
2014 Year end  
2014
2015 Year end  
2015
Lean score
100
75
50
25
%
Strategic Review Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is 
prepared to accept to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee has 
delegated responsibility from the Board for implementing and monitoring internal controls 
and other elements of risk management systems. The Executive Committee operates 
alongside the Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility for oversight of financial 
controls, the Nominations Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession risk, 
and the Remuneration Committee, which has primary responsibility for remuneration and 
incentive structure risk. 
In 2014 a new risk management process was piloted across  
the Group which for the first time required our principal business 
units to produce detailed risk profiles. Following the successful 
pilot exercise, Group-wide deployment of the new risk profile was 
completed in March 2015. Each site is now required to develop 
and maintain a current risk profile, which identifies the key risks 
facing the business. Every risk is assessed, rated and appropriate 
mitigating procedures and, where necessary, improvement 
actions are developed. Specific key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’) are tracked for each risk and site management are 
required to review progress on a monthly basis. Site level risk 
profiles are uploaded to the Group intranet every six months 
and then consolidated into divisional risk registers and ultimately 
the Group risk register. During 2015 all required business units 
completed and uploaded their risk profile, demonstrating strong 
process adherence and a high level of management commitment. 
Each Divisional Managing Director reviewed and approved their 
business unit risk profiles and as part of this review process 
calibrated risk assessment across their division, assessed local 
management mitigating procedures and tracked the status 
of improvement actions. Once complete, the most significant 
business unit level risks were consolidated into a summarised 
divisional risk profile, including any additional divisional level  
risks as appropriate. 
The three divisional risk profiles were subsequently consolidated 
into a single Group risk profile and the divisional and consolidated 
Group risk profiles were presented at Executive Committee 
meetings in the second half of 2015. The senior leadership team 
reviewed the most pertinent risks facing the IMI Group. This 
review, the supporting risk profiles and a detailed analysis of the 
Group risk profile and actions undertaken to ensure compliance 
with the enhanced requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code were submitted to the Board. The Board explicitly 
considers the risks associated with the Group’s strategic 
objectives and the risks involved in specific investment  
decisions, including acquisitions and divestments.
Through these processes the significant risks facing the business 
are identified, assessed and ranked according to their likelihood 
and impact on the business and, following Executive review, the 
Board is able to actively monitor the measures used to mitigate, 
transfer or avoid such risks. Risk appetite across the range of 
Group strategic objectives is also reviewed by the Board. 
In addition to strategic, operational and compliance risks, 
the Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks 
including credit risk, liquidity risk, counter party risk, fluctuations 
in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. 
A description of these risks and our centralised approach  
to managing them is described in section 4.4 of the  
financial statements. 
The key strategic and operational risks facing the Group are 
shown in the table on pages 33 to 35. This analysis includes  
a description of the risk and the potential impact for the Group, 
a summary of the mitigation actions, the risk movement and  
the main changes during 2015.
32 IMI plc Customers continue to insist on more onerous contractual terms relating to product quality and performance. The Group has 
implemented a new APQP process across all manufacturing operations. Significant progress has been made embedding 
standard work and lean tools such a poka-yoke (quality system with the goal of achieving zero defects), which will reduce  
the likelihood of issues arising. Introduction of Obeya rooms in Critical Engineering and the addition of a global standard IMI 
Norgren quality system in Precision Engineering will add significantly to systems integrity and performance monitoring.
CHANGES DURING 2015
PRODUCT QUALITY
QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO 
PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, 
WARRANTY ISSUES, INJURY, 
DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO 
CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS
ACQUISITION RISK
FAILURE TO INTEGRATE 
ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY 
AND DELIVER THE REQUIRED 
SYNERGIES
The Group prides itself on the innovative 
engineering solutions we provide our 
customers. The quality and safety of our 
products is of the highest importance  
and failure to deliver the quality required  
would result in negative financial and 
reputational impact.
An important part of our growth agenda is to 
make acquisitions that complement or extend 
our product portfolio. Failure to implement the 
post integration strategy would reduce the 
value enhancing synergies.
RISK 
MOVEMENT
RISK 
MOVEMENT
•  Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced product quality 
planning (‘APQP’) programme.
•  Continued focus on adherence to existing quality management systems, 
including audits to appropriate quality standards.
•  Testing of finished product and customer sign off on the most critical  
of products.
•  Targeted lean events to improve quality and application of problem 
solving tools to address significant re-occurring quality issues per site.
•  Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and 
product development.
•  Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of  
product failures.
•  Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify 
hard and soft synergies within targeted acquisition opportunities.
•  Formalised acquisition approval, due diligence and post-acquisition 
integration processes. 
•  Weekly review of the 100 day post-acquisition plan with the integration 
team to track progress, led by the Divisional Managing Director.
MACRO-ECONOMIC 
INSTABILITY
GLOBAL ECONOMIC OR 
POLITICAL INSTABILITY 
IMPACTING THE GROUP’S 
ABILITY TO ACHIEVE 
FORECAST AND MARKET 
EXPECTATIONS
MAJOR PROJECT 
IMPLEMENTATION
FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR 
TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS 
ON TIME AND ON BUDGET
The Group operates in global markets and 
demand for our products is dependent on 
a number of economic and sector-facing 
environments. A downturn in a regional 
economy or a political event could impact 
end-market demand and result in reductions 
in revenue and profit.
Economic and market conditions have become increasingly challenging with weakness in Brazil and slower growth in China coupled 
with lower activity in Oil & Gas and Nuclear Power generation. The Group continues to increase investment in new product development 
and improve operational performance to enhance competitiveness. T o mitigate, where practical, the impact of current market weakness, 
Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering are reviewing a number of cost-reduction initiatives which will be introduced in 2016.
The Group has a similar volume of major change projects compared to 2014, with the majority now relating to business  
re-organisations and IT system implementations. All significant projects receive substantial senior management oversight in  
the form of bi-weekly Executive project reviews to deliver the objectives which were approved at project initiation, to ensure  
they remain on track and are adequately resourced. 
The Group will undertake a number of major 
change projects in line with our strategic 
objectives including: business reorganisations 
and implementation of IT systems. Failure 
to deliver the desired objectives and failure 
to react quickly enough to changing market 
conditions, could have an adverse financial 
impact on the Group.
•  Divisional management monitor key customers and respond quickly to 
changes in customer demand.
•  Our core forecasting process utilises early indications of reduced demand 
and the operational output can be right sized appropriately. 
•  The Group operates in all main regional markets and our strategy is to 
ensure that we have a balanced portfolio of markets to ensure we are  
not too dependent on any one region or market.
•  Enhanced stress testing and sensitivity analysis of business plans with 
regular reviews of key market and sector metrics.
•  Continued upgrade of resources to manage projects including the 
introduction of new Group-wide core processes.
•  Detailed plans with clear and measurable milestones reviewed by  
the Divisional Managing Directors to track progress.
•  Regular review of major project progress by the Executive Committee.
•  Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans  
for all major change projects.
• Specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews of major IT projects.
• Detailed contingency plans.
RISK  
MOVEMENT
RISK  
MOVEMENT
CHANGES DURING 2015
CHANGES DURING 2015
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
The revised acquisition integration process introduced in 2014 which was used for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther at the start 
of 2015 will ensure efficiency synergies are maximised. This revised and formalised process has improved the visibility and rigour 
of delivery of the planned synergies.
CHANGES DURING 2015
33
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties (cont’d)
Increased macro-economic pressures have increased competitive and pricing risks. Formal new product introduction procedures, 
improvements in operational capabilities, routine teardown testing and competitive benchmarking of competitor products have 
placed the Group in a better position to respond to these challenges.
CHANGES DURING 2015
COMPETITIVE MARKETS
INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE 
MARKETS LEADING TO 
PRICING PRESSURES OR  
LOSS OF CUSTOMERS 
Increased volatility and slowdown in 
major economies may result in increased 
competition, leading to loss of customers 
and/or pricing pressures leading to lost  
sales and reduced profits.
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
RISK 
MOVEMENT
CYBER SECURITY
UNAUTHORISED ACCESS  
TO OUR IT SYSTEMS
REGULATORY BREACH
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH 
LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF  
OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS  
OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR
Unapproved access to IT systems resulting 
in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent 
activity and theft of cash or data, business 
interruption and reputational damage.
We have set ourselves very high standards 
in our approach to ethics and rejection of 
corruption in business. We need to ensure, 
as we expand our operations to achieve our 
desired growth, that we maintain these high 
standards. We face legislation around tax, 
anti-bribery, fraud and competition law and 
need to ensure compliance to avoid financial 
and reputational damage.
RISK  
MOVEMENT
The nature and number of security threats has increased during 2015 and the Group has responded with significant investments 
in sophisticated anti-virus and firewall preventative measures coupled with increased user awareness. In addition, following a wide-
ranging review of the Group’s IT infrastructure and cyber security, the Group has agreed and funded a comprehensive Security 
Improvement Programme, which is currently being piloted in a number of business units before being rolled out across the Group.
Whilst the external regulatory environment is increasingly arduous, our process and procedures are more embedded throughout  
the business. During 2015 we significantly enhanced our due diligence and approval procedures for sales agents and have 
organised our legal and compliance resources under a divisional structure so that they are now an integral part of our operational 
management teams.
CHANGES DURING 2015
CHANGES DURING 2015
RISK 
MOVEMENT
•  Increased IT security resources and establishment of an IT security 
steering group comprising representatives for all divisions and  
corporate offices.
•  Increased cyber security awareness training for all employees,  
particularly with regard to fraud.
• Disaster recovery plans developed. 
• Increased monitoring of IT systems.
Continued collaboration across divisions to share knowledge of suppliers and use of standardised scorecards to monitor trends 
in key supplier performance. Introduction of value engineering programmes across divisions. Introduction of global agreements to 
leverage Group purchase and ensure all supplies are sourced from reputable suppliers under standard terms and pricing.
SUPPLY CHAIN
FAILURE TO MANAGE  
THE SUPPLY CHAIN
The Group has a significant number of 
contracts with a broad base of suppliers. 
Failure to meet customers’ requirements in 
respect of quality or delivery, could have a 
material impact on the Group’s results.
RISK 
MOVEMENT
CHANGES DURING 2015
•  Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate  
the impact of a supplier failure or increased prices.
• Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers.
• Adequate safety stock and/or dual supply for critical components.
•  Supplier scorecard process to monitor performance, capability  
and resilience.
•  Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in  
the IMI Way. 
•  Further enhancement of the internal controls declaration process and 
continued rigorous financial audits by our Group Assurance team.
•  The annual IMI Way Day was held in June across the Group and included 
face-to-face training for all employees.
•  Policies, manuals, training and guidelines are available to all employees under 
the legal and compliance and financial sections of the IMI global intranet.
•  Group, division and specific territory resources dedicated to legal and 
regulatory compliance.
•  Training of employees focusing on how to apply the IMI Way in everyday 
situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and anti-
bribery and corruption.
•  Availability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the 
confidential IMI hotline to report concerns.
•  Group standard operating procedures are available on the intranet  
and increased rigour around core legal and compliance processes. 
•  Enhanced third party agent due diligence and approval procedures, 
standard agency agreements and terminated non-compliant agents.
•  Review of site capacity as part of the lean benchmarking process and to 
obtain better utilisation and improved productivity.
•  Rigorous review of standard costings to ensure thorough understanding  
of product cost.
•  Monitoring of markets to ensure cost competitiveness and market shares 
understood and managed. 
•  Formal market, competitor and peer reviews undertaken quarterly.
34 IMI plc A new advanced product quality planning process was launched across the Group which had been developed and piloted in 
Hydronic Engineering. Fifteen new products in Hydronic Engineering generated £30m of sales in 2015. Five year regional plans 
including new product priorities were established for the industrial engineering sector and roadmaps were included as an integral 
component of divisional strategies.
CHANGES DURING 2015
Risk appetite 
The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is deemed to be appropriate to pursuing and achieving our strategic objectives. 
Specific risk exposures and appetites vary according to the nature of the risk.
Details on risk appetite are communicated to the Divisional Managing Directors and the Group’s Executive Committee to ensure that decision 
making and behaviours across the business are consistent with the guidance set by the Board. 
Improved risk management processes have meant that the identification and mitigation of risks are now well-embedded within the operating 
protocols across our businesses.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
LACK OF INNOVATION OR 
DEVELOPMENT OF A PIPELINE 
OF NEW PRODUCTS
The Group’s strategy to double operating 
profit is underpinned by organic growth, 
which will be achieved in part by delivering  
a pipeline of innovative new products.  
Failure to achieve this objective will impact  
our ability to grow.
•   Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced APQP programme.
• Five year technology roadmaps included in divisional strategies.
•  Continued investment in research and development, working with our key 
account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs.
•  Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number  
of locations with dedicated teams to monitor progress.
•  New product introduction procedures in place.
•  Tracking of key performance metrics – level of sales from new products  
and level of research and development spend against sales.
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
We measure progress by tracking lost time accidents (‘LTAs’), medical incidents and near misses. In 2015, the Group implemented 
an improved HSE audit process, incorporating similar methodology to our lean manufacturing benchmark and audit process.  
These reviews are undertaken more frequently and improve hazard detection across sites in different divisions and regions.
CHANGES DURING 2015
HEALTH, SAFETY & 
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS
FAILURE OF HEALTH, SAFETY  
AND ENVIRONMENTAL (HSE) 
CONTROLS RESULTING IN HARM 
TO EMPLOYEES OR OTHER 
STAKEHOLDERS
The Group recognises our duty of care to our 
employees and other stakeholders. Whilst 
we have made great progress in recent years 
we understand the impact on our employees 
and other stakeholders from the failure of this 
obligation and therefore consider this a key 
risk. Failure of controls could result in injury, 
death and environmental damage with the 
consequential impact of reputational damage 
and risk of regulator action.
•  Application of lean manufacturing principles into an improved HSE 
assessment and audit process including 5S (housekeeping methodology 
for manufacturing areas) and Gemba walks (management walks in 
manufacturing areas).
•  Improved standard work processes, new lifting and slinging procedures 
and improved planning around plant layout.
•  Global process in place to ensure that HSE matters are appropriately 
monitored and addressed and risks minimised including monthly reporting 
to, and review at the Executive Committee. 
•  Group and divisional level HSE resource proactively manage and audit 
divisional HSE performance and provide guidance and support to  
site management.
RISK 
MOVEMENT
RISK 
MOVEMENT
35
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Precision Engineering 
prototype tooling skills 
help accelerate new 
product launches
Critical Engineering made significant progress towards 
achieving its strategic objectives in a tough market 
environment.
Precision Engineering advanced a number of strategic 
initiatives including rationalising the product portfolio, 
improving operational performance and implementing  
a new system of product development.
Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results and a 
number of new market-leading products despite a still 
challenging European environment.
IMI Critical Engineering 
IMI Precision Engineering 
IMI Hydronic Engineering 
38
40
42
Performance  
review
Above 
Final testing of valve assemblies  
at IMI CCI Korea
Right 
State of the art test technology  
in our Olkusz, Poland facility
IMI plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Engineering 
GREAT the 
IMI Way 
37
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction Performance Review Down 10%* 
Down 24%* 
£631m
Operating profit
£93.1m
Revenue
Operational Review
IMI Critical Engineering
IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow 
control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries  
to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
We operate a global service network with manufacturing facilities in 12 countries and employ 
over 4,300 talented people across a range of disciplines, all committed to providing excellent 
service to our customers.
We design, manufacture and install customised, highly engineered solutions for new plant builds 
and also provide complete plant lifecycle service support. This ensures that our customers 
benefit from efficient maintenance, speedy issue resolution and plant optimisation at all times.
Our products are at the heart of complex energy and production processes. They control the flow 
of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments – they are designed to withstand temperature, 
and pressure extremes, as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
Our engineering expertise sets us apart. We combine technical knowledge, engineering design 
capability, application experience and innovative custom-designed products to deliver safe, 
reliable and durable solutions.
Performance
Full year order intake at £619m (2014: £686m) was down 13% on an organic basis (after adjusting 
for acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements). In the second half, order intake 
decreased 20% on an organic basis. The Oil & Gas sector, where we have a significant position 
in the LNG market, showed resilience with order intake decreasing by 3% in the year despite the 
drastic reduction in the oil price. LNG new construction orders played a key role in Oil & Gas, 
with orders up 23% in the year, more than offset by upstream orders down 25%. Due to the 
slower new order activity in China, Fossil Power orders were down 1% on the prior year. In the 
Petrochemical sector, orders were down 42% due to a combination of lower market activity in 
China, large one-off orders in 2014 and slippage of some large projects from 2015 into 2016.  
As anticipated, Nuclear orders were down 76% reflecting on-going weakness in the market  
post-Fukushima.
Aftermarket orders were down 3% compared to 2014 with Oil & Gas being up 3%, more than 
offset by Fossil Power down 4% and the remaining segments down 6%.
After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £26m and for acquisitions 
and disposals, revenues decreased 10% on an organic basis. Revenues of £631m (2014: £692m) 
were down 9% on a reported basis with IMI Bopp & Reuther contributing £46m of revenues in 
the year. Segmental operating profit of £93m (2014: £131m) declined by 29% on a reported basis 
and was 24% lower on an organic basis while margins decreased to 14.8% from 19.0% in 2014. 
This decline in profitability and margins was primarily due to the reduction in volumes. 
The division made good progress on a number of its growth initiatives including the division 
wide adoption of Obeya, a visual project management system, lean manufacturing and 
implementation of new ERP systems in two key sites.
Oil & Gas
IMI Critical Engineering is the global market leader  
in the supply of anti-surge valve and actuator  
systems to the world’ s largest LNG compression 
facilities, including Gorgon in Australia. Our systems 
operate below -160°C, with ultra-fast response to 
maximise liquid natural gas production while  
protecting the compressor.
Petrochemical
IMI Critical Engineering is the global leader in the design 
and manufacture of integrated flow control systems for 
critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC). 
We also supply bespoke valves into the ethylene and 
polypropylene production processes, as well as for 
delayed coking at temperatures up to 1,600°C. 
Power – Fossil & Nuclear
IMI Critical Engineering supplies the critical, customised 
turbine by-pass valves to the world’ s most efficient 
power stations. Our valves control high pressure super-
heated steam at temperatures up to 650°C, protecting 
the turbine and optimising power yield. Globally, we 
have an installed base of over 100,000 valves and are 
a leader in the combined cycle gas sector. We also 
supply both products for new nuclear reactors and 
upgrades to existing facilities to improve safety levels. 
T o date we have supplied products to over half the 
world’ s reactor fleet.
Engineering  
GREAT Solutions
* organic
38 IMI plc Roy Twite  
Divisional Managing Director 
“During the year IMI Critical Engineering made significant progress towards achieving its strategic 
objectives including the completion of a brand new world-class facility in Korea, the successful launch 
of a new ERP system, excellent progress in lean and project management, as well as sector leading 
performance in a tough market environment.”
Readying our businesses for accelerated growth – efficient systems and processes installed  
to strengthen operational infrastructure and enhance competitiveness
During the year, a new ERP system, an integrated IT system that automatically manages multiple business processes and functions, was successfully installed 
on time and to budget at Critical Engineering’s Brno, Czech Republic facility. The new system embeds a common way of working, consistent processes and 
accurate data collection all of which make day-to-day operations more cost and time efficient and product and service offerings more competitive.
Repetitive time consuming manual data entry is now a thing of the past. Day-to-day tasks are now performed more efficiently and effectively, project cycle 
times have been reduced and data retrieval has been made quicker and easier. Today, as a result of access to accurate consistent data, operating costs  
at the Brno facility can be better monitored and controlled and the profitability of every single project carefully managed. The team in Brno also  
now has better visibility across the entire production process which has resulted in improved inventory management and customer responsiveness. 
Following the successful Brno launch, the same ERP system will be rolled out across Critical Engineering’s eight other major facilities, starting with  
Japan and Sweden during the first quarter of 2016. 
As a result of this investment in a key part of the division’s infrastructure, Critical Engineering’s operational performance has been enhanced and the 
business is now better equipped to harness significant market opportunities in the coming years.
IMI Bopp & Reuther
IMI Bopp & Reuther was acquired on 2 January 2015 and has been 
fully integrated into Critical Engineering with 97% of 400 integration 
actions being completed by the year-end. Hard synergies are now 
being delivered and actions have been taken to close the Swiss  
and Canadian Nuclear businesses and transfer their operations  
to the IMI Bopp & Reuther manufacturing facility in Mannheim by  
the end of 2016.
Key achievements
•  IMI Bopp & Reuther successfully integrated in the year
•  Completion of the new £8m manufacturing facility for IMI CCI in  
South Korea and commencement of a £5m refurbishment of the  
IMI Z&J Germany manufacturing plant
•  T wo new service centres opened in China and a new £9m China 
manufacturing localisation plan started
•  Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from 26% to 56%
•  Obeya project management process implemented in key 
manufacturing plants
•  New process improvements embedded in each of the business  
units including the 5 year strategic planning process, new risk  
profiling process and financial internal controls process
•  New divisional ERP system successfully launched in Austria and 
Czech Republic with a further four sites on track for go-live in 2016
•  Won a number of new orders including new choke valves for the 
Kashagan project, new monitoring and isolating equipment to  
prevent fugitive emissions and aftermarket high temperature  
nozzles for de-superheating applications
•  Sale of non-core IMI Scott and IMI Z&J South Africa to remove 
complexity from the division
Case studies on-line
www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action
Market review
Conditions across much of the capital goods sector were particularly 
difficult in 2015 resulting in Critical Engineering’s key markets being 
more challenging than expected. The sharp decline in the oil price 
caused significant weakness in the Oil & Gas sector and post the 
2011 Fukushima incident, investment continued to be depressed in 
the Nuclear sector. More generally the slowdown in China and the 
cautious global capital spending environment impacted new order 
opportunities significantly.
In response, the division initiated a number of cost-cutting initiatives 
including the restructuring of its European and Canadian nuclear 
businesses which are now centred at IMI Bopp & Reuther’s 
Mannheim facility in Germany and the transfer of IMI TH Jansen’s 
production facilities to IMI Z&J’s plant at Düren.
Outlook
Based on the current order book and market outlook, we expect 
first half revenues and margins to reflect a similar percentage 
reduction as experienced in the full year of 2015. Subject to order 
book timing, and including the benefits of restructuring actions,  
we anticipate a second half improvement in both revenues and 
margins when compared to the first half of the year.
CASE STUDY
39
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Performance Review Down 3%* 
Down 14%*
£662m
Operating profit
£117.7m
Revenue
Operational Review
IMI Precision Engineering
Engineering  
GREAT Solutions
IMI Precision Engineering is a world leader in motion and fluid 
control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability 
of process are essential. We deliver integrated solutions which 
improve the productivity and efficiency of customers’ equipment.
We operate sales and service networks in 75 countries and have manufacturing facilities 
in the US, Germany, China, UK, Czech Republic, Mexico, India and Brazil. Product 
support is provided through global centres of technical excellence, and facilities  
for computational fluid dynamics design, research and development and testing.  
We also employ a dedicated team of field engineers, sector specialists and key  
account managers – all committed to providing excellent service to customers. 
Performance
After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £23m and for 
acquisitions and disposals, revenues of £662m (2014: £710m) decreased 3% on an 
organic basis and were down 7% on a reported basis. Industrial Automation revenues 
were down 5%, driven by lower market demand in North America and the Asia Pacific 
region. Commercial Vehicle sales decreased 1% in the year through a combination of 
9% growth in Europe, a good first half performance in North America and significantly 
lower truck production in Brazil. Rail was up 17%, while Oil & Gas declined 10% and 
Life Sciences was up 1%.
Segmental operating profit at £117.7m (2014: £138.5m) was 15% lower on a reported 
basis and, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 
£3m, 14% lower on an organic basis. Operating margins suffered from weaker market 
conditions in the second half (H1 2015: 18.6% v H2 2015: 16.9%) and in the full year 
operating margins of 17.8% were also lower reflecting an adverse sales mix and the 
increased investment to support long-term growth. 
The application of lean made terrific progress right across the division with significantly 
improved productivity, nearly 50% reduction in warranty costs, a 23% reduction in 
scrap costs and 7.5% lower inventory when compared to 2014.
Industrial Automation
Delivering benefits to global customers 
– including auto in-plant, machine tools 
and general industry – IMI Precision 
Engineering’s high performance 
products include valves, valve islands, 
proportional and pressure monitoring 
controls and air preparation products, 
as well as a comprehensive selection 
of pneumatic actuators – rodless, 
compact, roundline and rotary.  
These are quickly and easily selected 
and ordered via our Norgren Express 
activities globally and supported  
with high quality technical advice.
Commercial Vehicle
An extensive range of cab, chassis 
and powertrain solutions deliver 
fuel efficiency, emissions reduction 
and faster assembly times for the 
world’ s leading commercial vehicle 
manufacturers. Acknowledged for their 
safe and reliable operation, Precision 
Engineering’ s products have been 
proven in the harshest environments 
and over millions of miles of reliable 
service. We understand the market 
trends, environmental challenges, 
emissions standards and specifications 
that matter to truck manufacturers and 
Tier 1 suppliers.
Oil & Gas
IMI Precision Engineering’s extensive 
range of products and expertise is 
acknowledged widely throughout 
the Oil & Gas industry. In addition to 
IMI’s customised solutions, Precision 
Engineering produce a comprehensive 
range of certified, world-class products 
which deliver precision control in even 
the harshest environments, including 
stainless steel valves and regulators, 
nuclear class valves and emergency 
shutdown controls.
Life Sciences
IMI Precision Engineering has a 
proven track-record of supporting the 
development of advances in medical 
devices, diagnostic equipment and 
biotech and analytical instruments. 
In particular, the division’ s products 
and expertise have helped reduce the 
size of equipment, while enhancing 
accuracy, throughput and fluid control 
performance. The division is recognised 
for products which manage the precise 
control, repeatability and safety needs 
of the industry. Our solutions are found 
in equipment for anaesthetics and 
patient therapy through to molecular 
diagnostics and pathogen detection.
* organic
40 IMI plc Massimo Grassi  
Divisional Managing Director 
“During the year we made good progress on a number of strategic initiatives including rationalising 
the product portfolio in Europe, improving operational performance through the application of lean, 
addressing supply chain complexities and implementing a new system of new product development 
world-wide.”
Performance Review
The division focused on a number of strategic activities during 
the year including simplifying the organisational structure, 
improving operational performance through the application  
of lean manufacturing, upgrading IT systems, addressing  
supply chain complexities and increasing investment in  
new product development.
Our review of the Industrial Automation market confirmed that 
we have excellent market positions, with a valuable installed 
base and access to a high margin aftermarket. We are now 
developing detailed product roadmaps in each of the key 
geographies which will underpin our plans for growth.
Key Achievements
•   New Divisional Managing Director , Massimo Grassi, appointed 
with effect from 1 June 2015
•   Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from a  
year 1 assessment of 32% to 59% at year end 2015
•   Division-wide adoption of new product introduction process, 
reducing lead time and improved ‘job 1 readiness’
•   New divisional ERP system launched successfully in Brazil  
and Farmington, Connecticut
•   New division-wide quality system implemented across all  
IMI Norgren global sites
•   Parts rationalisation completed in Europe, reducing 450,000 
SKUs by 295,000 in the year
Market Review
The global industrial economic outlook for 2016 remains 
mixed with leading indicators, including the Purchasing 
Managers Index, weakening in the second half of 2015. 
While we expect the general industrial markets in Europe to 
remain broadly neutral, the US and Asian markets will remain 
challenging, particularly in China. In the truck sector we expect 
the European market to remain stable while North America 
class 8 volumes are expected to be lower in the year ahead.
Outlook
Based on current market conditions, we expect first half 
revenues to reflect a similar percentage reduction to 
the second half of 2015. Margins in the first half will be 
comparable to second half of 2015. While markets remain 
uncertain the benefits of restructuring activities in Brazil and 
the actions taken to lower our costs are expected to deliver 
improved margins in the second half of the year.
Case studies on-line
www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action
Implementing a robust New Product Development and quality system to deliver 
competitive advantage – helps secure new contract win
During the year Precision Engineering won a new contract to supply patent protected Phoenix valves to Kongsberg Automotive, the Norwegian 
based company that provides world-class products to the global vehicle industry.
The Phoenix valve plays a key part in managing the engine and transmission systems of large commercial trucks, in particular their clutch control 
mechanisms, ensuring that the trucks run efficiently and avoid off-road time which is very costly for the truck operators.
The Phoenix valve was designed in Precision Engineering’ s Fellbach facility in Germany and is manufactured in the Czech Republic at the division’ s 
Brno plant. In the past 18 months both plants have significantly improved their operational performance and this was a key factor in the successful 
development and commercialisation of the Phoenix valve. In particular, a new robust product development process, that now operates across the 
whole of the Precision Engineering division, guarantees the quality of the product through every stage of its development ensuring that each valve 
(one of which will be produced every five seconds) is delivered on time, to specification and to cost. As a result quality issues, late delivery and 
costly overruns have been eliminated.
CASE STUDY
41
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Performance Review Up 2%* 
Down 1%* 
£264m
Operating profit
£51.8m
Revenue
Operational Review
IMI Hydronic Engineering
Engineering  
GREAT Solutions
IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading global provider and 
recognised expert in hydronic distribution systems and room 
temperature control, with experience in more than 100,000 
construction projects world-wide.
We help clients optimise their heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems 
by providing products and knowledge to deliver perfect indoor climate at minimum 
energy use and at the right energy cost.
Our team of just under 2,000 people operate around the world, and we have design 
and manufacturing facilities in six countries.
Performance
After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £23m and 
disposals of £2m, revenues were 2% higher on an organic basis. Revenues on a 
reported basis of £264m (2014: £284m) were down 7%. The strong growth in the 
second half of the year was driven by sales of new products and the absence of 
adverse weather conditions experienced in the prior year.
Segmental operating profit at £52m (2014: £57m) was 9% lower on a reported basis 
and, after adjusting for £4m of exchange rate impact, 1% lower on an organic basis. 
Operating margins showed their normal second half seasonal improvement to  
21.2% (2014: 21.4%), full year margins at 19.6% were slightly lower compared  
to last year (2014: 20.0%).
During the year we continued to invest in new product development and successfully 
launched 15 new products, which delivered annualised revenues of around £30m.  
A good pipeline of exciting launches is scheduled for 2016, which will underpin our 
growth ambitions for the division. Good progress was also made on other strategic 
initiatives, including a further implementation of the lean principles in our factories  
and of the new ERP system in the division. 
The full implementation of lean, including Kanban and Pull Systems, resulted in 
base load inventory reductions of 18% while on-time delivery rose to 92%. These 
improvements were delivered despite the impact of 15 great new products which 
required their own additions to inventory and operational complexity in the year.
Balancing and Control
Hydronic balancing is about controlling 
water flow, which ensures that a water-
based heating or cooling system 
performs to its full potential. T oday 
unbalanced systems are the cause of 
two thirds of all indoor climate problems. 
As the balancing experts, IMI Hydronic 
Engineering enable customers to 
maintain comfort at the right level and 
increase HVAC efficiency by up to 30%. 
Our expertise covers all types of  
hydronic systems – constant flow   
and variable flow, static balancing   
and dynamic balancing.
Thermostatic Control
With an unparalleled history of success 
owing to our dedication to precision 
and control, IMI Hydronic Engineering’ s 
thermostatic control systems guarantee 
reliability in room temperature 
control. All our thermostatic control 
bodies and housings are made from 
gunmetal. Resistant to corrosion and 
dezincification, this tough material is 
shaped using our own casting process. 
The result is unmatched temperature 
control and thermostatic valve quality.
Pressurisation
Changes in temperature result in 
changing water volume, which have 
to be dealt with immediately to avoid 
damage and system breakdown. Our 
reliable pressure control systems with 
compressors or pumps, together with 
our robust range of static expansion 
vessels and water make-up devices, 
make sure there is the right amount  
of water, at the right pressure in the 
system at all times.
Water Quality
Our wide range of separators and 
degassers protect the installation 
and maintain system performance by 
keeping water free of micro-bubbles and 
sludge in heating, solar and chilled water 
systems. Our latest cyclonic technology 
has been proven to be up to nine times 
more efficient at removing dirt from HVAC 
systems ensuring a longer life of the 
installation, lower maintenance costs  
as well as lower energy costs. 
* organic
42 IMI plc Peter Spencer  
Divisional Managing Director 
“IMI Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results in 2015 in a still challenging European environment. 
We continued to strengthen our business, launched a number of great new products and introduced 
operational improvements. All of these initiatives resulted in positive sales development in 2015 and  
will drive significant future growth.”
Case studies on-line
www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action
Key achievements
•   Delivered 2% organic sales growth
•  Launched 15 new products including Eclipse, a revolutionary 
thermostatic radiator valve based on our patented  
AFC technology
•  Good progress on lean implementation resulting in  
an improved lean assessment score of 72%, an 18% 
reduction in inventory levels and over 92% on time deliveries
•  Hydronic Engineering’ s Polish site first in IMI to achieve world-
class lean ranking with score of 88%
Market review
Governments and international bodies continue to launch 
initiatives to significantly increase energy efficiency, such as 
the European Union’s plan for nearly-zero energy buildings 
by 2020; the agreement by the US and China to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency  
over the next 20 years; and the United Nations’ plan to double  
the rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030.
The trend towards a more sustainable and energy efficient world 
will be a key driver for IMI Hydronic Engineering. While building 
construction in our core European markets has remained weak 
in 2015, the global ambition to improve energy efficiency will 
continue to drive demand for the division’ s new and world 
leading products. 
Outlook
In 2016 European construction markets are forecast to 
remain broadly flat, however, the success of our new product 
launches is expected to result in good revenue growth in 
2016. Operating margins are expected to show their normal 
second half improvement and reflect the on-going investment 
for longer term growth.
CASE STUDY
Capitalising on new product development – winning new contracts 
Eclipse, the next generation automatic thermostatic radiator valve product developed and launched by Hydronic Engineering in 
just eleven months, has enabled the division to win a number of significant new contracts. 
In July 2015, following an introduction to Eclipse during the ISH Exhibition Launch in Frankfurt in March of that year, Vivawest Wohnen GmbH 
(‘Vivawest Wohnen’), one of the largest housing associations in Germany, which owns and manages over 120,000 residential properties,  
entered into its first contract with Hydronic Engineering. The contract covers the supply of Eclipse valves for installation into 369 flats at its  
Neue Stadtgärten housing estate in Recklinghausen all of which are being renovated. As the Eclipse product automatically balances the heating 
system and does not require complex calculations to be undertaken, both time and costs are saved during the installation process, which in the 
case of Neue Stadtgärten totalled €65,000. Hydronic Engineering is currently in discussions with Vivawest Wohnen to supply Eclipse to a number 
of other renovation projects it is planning to undertake. 
43
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Performance Review Hydronic 
Engineering’s new 
Slider actuator 
prototypes are  
built in an all new 
design lean cell
Audit 
Committee 
Report
Remuneration 
Report
Nominations 
Committee 
Report
The Board
Ross McInnes, Chairman of the Committee, 
reports on the oversight role and other 
activities of the Audit Committee.
Bob Stack, Chairman of the Committee, 
gives a full and transparent picture of 
executive director remuneration.
Lord Smith, Chairman of the Committee, 
outlines the Committee’s work on Board 
appointments and succession and other 
activities of the Nominations Committee.
Our business is governed by the Board 
of directors. Biographical details of the 
directors can be found here.
54-56
59-71 57-58
46-47
Corporate Governance Report
The Company Secretary, John O’Shea, reports  
on corporate governance and the main activities  
of the Board. 
49-53
Corporate 
Governance
Above 
Daily factory performance reviews  
are a key part of the rhythm of all  
IMI facilities
Right 
Three IMI CCI Korea employees use  
the new Obeya Project Management 
room to deliver exceptional on time 
deliveries to customers
44 IMI plc Engineering 
GREAT the 
IMI Way 
45
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors
Board experience
International business responsibility
90%
Engineering
70%
Public company board
70%
Key external appointments
Non-executive Chairman of 
Alliance Trust plc 
Non-executive Chairman of the UK 
Green Investment Bank plc
Non-executive director of 
Halma plc
Non-executive director of  
the Earthwatch Institute
Non-executive director of 
Signet Jewellers Limited
Committee membership
Nominations Committee – Chair Executive Committee Executive Committee
Nationality
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
Mark Selway
Chief Executive
Daniel Shook
Finance Director
Roy Twite
Executive Director
Date of appointment
2015 2013 2007 2008 2015
Nominations Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
– Chair
Executive Committee
Australian British American American British
Bob Stack
Senior independent  
non-executive director
British
Expertise
Significant UK and international 
board experience
Extensive knowledge of both 
engineering and manufacturing 
Strong track record in private 
equity, mergers and acquisitions
Specialist capability in finance
Experienced and proven  
Chief Executive 
Solid track record running 
international engineering 
businesses 
In-depth knowledge of relevant 
end-markets including oil & gas, 
energy and automotive
Proven operational and 
engineering expertise 
Management capability having 
run all of IMI’s divisions 
Extensive knowledge of end- 
markets and customer base
Experienced non-executive 
director at public company level
Significant international 
business experience
Specialist capability in human 
resources, organisation change 
and corporate affairs
20 years financial management 
experience 
Extensive knowledge of complex 
process manufacturing across 
a range of industrial sectors 
Strong international 
perspective, having worked in 
a number of key geographies 
during his time with two  
leading global businesses
46 IMI plc Finance
70%
Regulatory & legal
60%
Mergers & acquisitions
80%
Find out more about the Board on-line
www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/board
Nationality
Committee membership
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee 
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee – Chair
Nominations Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee 
Remuneration Committee
Ross McInnes
Non-executive director
Carl-Peter Forster
Non-executive director
Isobel Sharp
Non-executive director
Birgit Nørgaard
Non-executive director
Key external appointments
Non-executive director of Geely 
Automobile Holdings, Hong Kong
Chairman of London  
Taxi Company
Non-executive director of Volvo 
Cars Corporation, Gothenburg, 
Sweden
Non-executive director of  
Rexam plc
Non-executive Chairman of 
Safran SA
Non-executive director 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee at Faurecia SA
Non-executive director 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee at Eutelsat 
Communications SA
Non-executive director of the 
UK Green Investment Bank plc
Non-executive director and 
Audit Committee Chair of 
Winton Capital Group Limited
Honorary Professor at 
Edinburgh University  
Business School
Non-executive director of 
DSV A/S
Non-executive director of WSP 
Global Inc. and Chairman of 
the Governance, Ethics and 
Compliance Committee
Non-executive director of 
Cobham plc
Date of appointment
2012 2014 2015 2012
British Danish French Australian German
Expertise
Experienced international 
business leader
In-depth knowledge of the 
automotive sector
Expert in operational excellence 
and lean manufacturing
Significant experience in 
technology management
Considerable financial expertise
Significant knowledge and 
experience of working in large 
international companies that 
operate in global markets
Experienced non-executive
Held senior executive positions 
in engineering consultancy
Wide ranging sectoral 
experience including energy, 
water, infrastructure and 
building industries
Experience in strategy as well 
as finance and accounting
Considerable accounting, audit, 
governance and transactions 
experience including time as 
the Senior Technical Partner at 
Deloitte in London, President 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland 
and membership of the UK 
Accounting Standards Board  
and the Financial Review Panel
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder
I have been Chairman of IMI since the Annual General Meeting 
in May 2015 and am delighted to be working with the Board 
and the Executive team on the delivery of IMI’s ambitious 
accelerated growth plan.
As I visit the businesses I am very impressed with the people 
and the culture, as well as the improvements and investment 
programmes that are underway. I am pleased to report that 
the measures to strengthen the businesses’ foundations have 
continued, with the full support of the Board, despite the 
economic headwinds we faced in 2015.
I am grateful to my predecessor, Roberto Quarta, for the strong 
Board and robust governance practices he put in place. From 
these firm foundations I will continue to build the effectiveness 
of the Board. 
So far during my tenure we have appointed one new non-
executive director, we have dedicated time to a Board strategy 
day and visited our facilities in the Czech Republic. The Board 
has decided to hold most of our UK Board meetings at the 
new head office in Birmingham, which I am confident will help 
increase the visibility and effectiveness of future meetings.
I am now fully recovered since a health issue which affected  
me back in September and October 2015. My commitment  
to IMI is as strong as ever and I thank my Board colleagues  
for their understanding and support.
Looking ahead to 2016, I see the key objectives for the  
Board to be:
•  continuing to develop our strategy review process with a 
longer-term perspective;
•  supporting and advising management as they implement  
the business improvement and growth investment plans 
approved by the Board; and 
•  continuing to strengthen the Group’s risk management and 
control environment.
I am keen to engage with shareholders and since my 
appointment I have met with a number of IMI’s larger 
institutional investors. I look forward to meeting individual 
shareholders again at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Yours faithfully
Lord Smith of Kelvin  
Chairman
25 February 2016
Corporate Governance introduction
Chairman’s Governance letter
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
48 IMI plc Women (2)
Men (7)
Corporate Governance Report
Set out below is the Board’s formal report on Corporate Governance and separate 
reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code -   
Compliance statement
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year 
ending 31 December 2015 the Company has applied the 
principles of good governance contained in the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and complied with its 
best practice provisions as set out below, and in the Directors’ 
Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Annual 
Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into this report. 
A description of the main features of the Company’s internal 
control system and other regulatory matters including statements 
on going concern and viability can be found on pages 133 to 136 
in the Directors’ Report. Risk management systems and principal 
risks and uncertainties are summarised on pages 33 to 35. 
Information on corporate responsibility can be found on pages 
26 to 29. 
The Board 
Composition
At the end of 2015 and to date in 2016 the Board comprised 
nine directors: the Chairman; the Chief Executive; five 
independent non-executive directors; the Finance Director  
and one operational executive director.
Roberto Quarta, Anita Frew and Douglas Hurt retired at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting. Daniel Shook was appointed  
as an executive director from 1 January 2015 and became 
Finance Director on 1 March 2015. Isobel Sharp joined as a 
non-executive director on 1 September 2015. 
In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves 
for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The role of the Board and the division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are outlined  
in the Directors’ Report on page 134 and 135.
Independence of non-executive directors
The Board considers that all five current non-executive 
directors are free from any business or other relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. All non-executive directors meet the criteria for 
independence under the Code save that Isobel Sharp is a 
co-director with Lord Smith on the board of the UK Green 
Investment Bank plc, a government owned financial institution. 
Cross-directorships are recognised in the Code criteria for 
independence as a potential consideration in relation to the 
assessment of independence. The Board has considered 
the circumstances and regards Isobel and all of the other 
non-executive directors as independent. The Chairman, Lord 
Smith, was also regarded as independent at the date of his 
appointment to the Board. The non-executive directors are a 
diverse group from varied backgrounds and bring with them a 
wide range of skills and experience of senior management in 
commerce, finance and industry in various parts of the world. 
Dates of appointment
Name Date of appointment Date of current letter 
of appointment
Anticipated expiry of 
current term
Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 20 December 2015 30 September 2018
Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 20 December 2015 30 September 2017
Birgit Nørgaard 6 November 2012 20 December 2015 5 November 2018
Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 20 December 2015 31 August 2018
Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 20 December 2015 6 May 2018
Bob Stack 13 June 2008 20 December 2015 12 June 2016
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
1
5
3
Board gender  
(at the year end/current)
Board balance  
(at the year end/current)
1 Chairman
3 Executive directors
5 Non-executive directors
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report (cont’d)
Meetings and use of Board time
The Board met on six occasions during the year including 
quarterly reviews, results meetings, strategy discussions and 
meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. 
Highlights of other Board activity in 2015 included:
•  As the year opened, IMI searched for a new Chairman 
and, after a full process led by Anita Frew, the then senior 
independent non-executive director, Lord Smith was selected
• Progress with Board succession
 -  New Finance Director, Daniel Shook, appointed and smooth 
handover effected in March 2015
 -  New non-executive director, Isobel Sharp, with a strong 
financial background appointed 
• Growth and process investments
 -  Continuing growth investments made in new products  
and business IT systems
 -  Embedded core process disciplines including lean,  
risk, compliance, new product development and  
policy deployment
 - Three major new facilities up and running
 -  Completion of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther to 
complement our control valve business in Critical Engineering
The Board’s time
Board and Committee attendance 2015
(i)
 Retired as a director in May 2015
(ii)
 Joined the Nominations Committee in May 2015
(iii)
 Joined the Board in May 2015
(iv)
 Joined the Board in September 2015
Induction and continuing development programme
A formal induction process for new non-executive directors has 
been well established for several years and is the responsibility 
of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and 
Company Secretary. This process was refreshed in the year  
to reflect changes introduced in consultation with the  
new Chairman.
Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing 
development for non-executive directors at IMI and is based 
around gaining an understanding of the business and getting to 
know the wider management team. All non-executive directors 
are expected to attend one of the corporate induction days 
at head office. There is also a committee induction process 
designed to brief new committee members on the relevant 
committee’s activity and the issues it faces. Non-executive 
directors are required to visit business units around the  
Group and, most importantly, to meet face-to-face with senior 
operating management and key corporate staff. Non-executive 
directors continue to become familiar with the businesses after 
induction and there is regular contact between management 
and non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings 
and events. 
During the year all of the non-executive directors made site visits 
and the whole Board spent two days in Brno, Czech Republic 
where it visited the largest sites in Critical Engineering and 
Precision Engineering.
Director Board 
meetings
6
Audit 
Committee 
meetings
4
Nominations 
Committee 
meetings
4
Remuneration 
Committee 
meetings
3
Carl-Peter Forster 6 4 - 3
Anita Frew
(i)
2 1 1 1
Ross McInnes 6 4 - -
Birgit Nørgaard
(ii)
6 4 3 3
Roberto Quarta
(i)
2 - 1 0
Isobel Sharp
(iv)
3 1 - -
Lord Smith
(iii)
3 - 3 -
Bob Stack 6 - 4 3
Mark Selway 6 - 1 -
Douglas Hurt
(i)
2 - - -
Daniel Shook 6 - - -
Roy Twite 5 - - -
Financial
15%
Major investments
15%
Risk, legal and compliance
10%
Corporate Governance
5%
Operational performance 
and plans
30%
Strategy
25%
50 IMI plc Appropriate coaching and access to training and other 
continuing professional development is available to all non-
executive directors and appropriate updates were given 
during the year at Board and Committee meetings. Special 
governance and regulatory refresher sessions were held during 
the year, attended by all of the non-executive directors.
Board evaluation
In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman 
should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, 
normally at least once every three years. In 2014 such a 
process was conducted and facilitated by Independent  
Board Evaluation. 
Excellent progress has been made in relation to the actions 
arising from the external evaluation exercise in 2014, and 
some highlights are given below:
•  introducing governance training for all first-time UK plc 
Board members;
•  allowing more Board time, specifically dedicated to  
strategy process;
•  establishing a Board succession plan, agreed by the 
Nominations Committee; and
•  increasing Board contact with senior management.
In 2015 an internal evaluation exercise was carried out 
through non-attributable questionnaires and canvassing 
comments from directors. The results were positive and 
Board members noted some areas for development over the 
coming year, including most notably, the appointment of all 
of the non-executive directors to the Nominations Committee 
and a training session on best practice for the expanded 
Nominations Committee.
The Board received the findings of the internal evaluation in 
December 2015 and after review the directors confirmed that 
the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that 
the Board and its Committees were effective and that each 
continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
Standing committees of the Board
The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, 
the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee. 
Each of these committees operates under written terms of 
reference which clearly set out their respective delegated 
responsibilities and authorities. The full terms of reference 
of these committees are part of the Corporate Governance 
Framework which appears on the IMI website. The 
Committees report to the Board on their work, normally 
through their respective chair, following each meeting. 
Separate reports from the Committees appear as follows: 
Audit Committee on pages 54 to 56; Nominations Committee 
on pages 57 and 58 and Remuneration Committee on pages 
59 to 71.
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report (cont’d)
Ross McInnes
Chairman
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
Bob Stack
Chairman
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
Membership:
•  Carl-Peter Forster
•  Birgit Nørgaard
•  Isobel Sharp 
Main responsibilities:
Financial reporting
• Oversight role in relation to financial statements
•  Reviewing significant areas of judgement and 
accounting policies
•  Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable
•  Monitoring announcements in respect of  
financial performance
Financial control and risk
•  Monitoring the effectiveness of internal  
financial controls
•  Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk
• Oversight of internal audit
•  Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, 
effectiveness and cost
•  Appointment of the auditor and responsibility  
for the audit fee
•  Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing 
and the treatment of reports received
Membership:
•   Carl-Peter Forster
•  Ross McInnes
•   Birgit Nørgaar d
•  Isobel Sharp
•  Bob Stack
Main responsibilities:
• Board and committee composition
•  Succession plans for the Board and for senior 
management and corporate roles
•  Search for and recommendation of candidates 
for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief 
Executive and other executive director positions
• Diversity policy and monitoring of progress
•  Review and recommendation of proposals for  
the assignment of major executive responsibilities 
and the appointment and removal of divisional 
business leaders
Membership:
•  Carl-Peter Forster
•  Birgit Nørgaard
Main responsibilities:
• Define and recommend the remuneration policy 
•  Determine the individual remuneration packages for 
the most senior executives and the Chairman within 
the policy approved by shareholders 
•  Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and 
awards and determine the outcomes 
•  Report on remuneration matters and constructively 
engage with shareholders
•  Assess risk in respect of remuneration and incentive 
structures in particular
52 IMI plc Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and 
the other members are shown on page 14. Regular attendees 
include the Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and 
Compliance, and the Head of Investor Relations. Other senior 
executives and line managers from around the Group are 
regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive 
Committee. The Committee meets monthly and more often  
as may be required, and all members attended all but one  
or two meetings during their tenure in the year. 
The Executive Committee is the senior management body and 
as part of the broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors 
and manages business performance, reviews progress against 
strategic objectives, considers business management issues 
and formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy  
and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.  
The Executive Committee is not a committee of the Board. 
The Executive Committee plays a key part in the risk 
assessment, risk management and monitoring processes  
and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance, 
legal and corporate affairs. 
Investor relations
The 2015 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the 
Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing 
committees of the Board and other directors. The Chairman 
encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and 
the directors met shareholders informally afterwards. 
Each substantively separate issue was put to the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was 
invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and 
to deal with other regular business. Separate resolutions for 
the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy were also put to the meeting 
and a new long-term incentive plan and sharesave plan were 
approved. Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting was 
issued more than twenty working days in advance and the 
level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, 
together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the 
meeting and shown on the IMI website. The Board values the 
support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions 
proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting were well  
above 90% in favour in each case. 
In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues 
preliminary results and interim results announcements, as 
well as two interim management statements between results 
announcements. The IMI website includes recordings of  
certain key presentations made by senior management,  
recent annual and interim reports, interim management 
statements, other corporate announcements and links to 
the websites of the Group’s businesses. The Company has 
arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders 
with Equiniti (details are shown on page 156). A sponsored 
Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been 
established for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary  
(details can be found on page 156). 
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of major 
shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their 
investments. Financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the 
directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports 
from the Company’s brokers. Dialogue is maintained with 
shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly 
with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance 
Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor 
relations and report to the Board on shareholder issues.  
They are supported by the Head of Investor Relations.  
The Chairman has also met with some major investors  
and the senior independent director is available to  
shareholders as needed.
During 2015 there were consultations with the larger 
shareholders and institutional shareholder representative 
bodies in respect of remuneration matters and the new 
incentive plans and remuneration policy, which were  
tabled for shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual  
General Meeting. 
Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, 
voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ conflicts  
and indemnification and certain other regulatory disclosures 
are set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 133 to 136.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea 
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary
25 February 2016
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present my second report as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Composition of the Audit Committee
I chair the Audit Committee. I was a career finance director 
until my retirement from executive office with Safran in 2015 
and I have significant recent and relevant financial experience. 
I also chair the audit committees at Faurecia SA and Eutelsat 
Communications SA. Birgit Nørgaard, Carl-Peter Forster and 
I were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year. 
Isobel Sharp joined on 1 September 2015, adding further 
significant accounting, audit and governance experience to  
the Committee. All of the Committee members are regarded  
by the Board as independent non-executive directors.
The Committee generally asks the following to join its meetings: 
the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the 
Group Financial Controller, the Director of Risk and Compliance, 
the Group Assurance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year 
alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and 
Compliance and the Group Assurance Director. The Committee 
has the powers to call on any employees to come before it.  
The Secretary to the Committee is also the Group Legal Director.
Main areas of activity in 2015
The Audit Committee met four times in 2015.
Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the 
Committee and during the year management made further 
significant progress in strengthening controls and addressing 
action points raised by the external auditor and internal 
assurance processes. Based on its review of selected key 
controls EY agreed with management’s assessment that the 
level of control effectiveness across the Group remains high 
at 96% and has improved compared to 2014. It is pleasing to 
report that the areas where controls are weakest have been  
a key management focus in the year and good progress has  
been made across all operations in the areas of balance sheet 
control, inventory management and segregation of duties.  
The commitment and significant progress in new IT investment 
and infrastructure will further strengthen our control environment 
in the years ahead. 
The Committee has received reports on the six-monthly Internal 
Control Declarations which are submitted by each business 
unit and cover internal controls in financial affairs, IT, human 
resources and other key areas. The process is managed 
by Group Assurance which routinely audits and follows up 
declarations to review the setting and completion of appropriate 
improvement actions.
Significant accounting issues reflected in the 2015 financial 
statements include accounting for acquisitions, impairment  
of goodwill and intangible assets arising from acquisitions, 
revenue recognition, pensions accounting and inventory 
valuation. The matters of judgement involved in these issues  
are described in more detail below. 
The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the 
Board the statements on going concern and viability, which 
appear in the Director’s Report on page 136.
The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in relation 
to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements in respect 
of the Annual Report and the Committee is pleased to see 
further progress in the clarity and quality of reporting in 2015. 
Oversight of financial reporting
The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the 
Annual Report and announcements with financial content 
that are prepared by executive management. The Committee 
received reports on the annual and interim financial statements 
from the external auditor who attended its meetings. The 
auditor’s report including a summary of key areas of audit  
focus is set out on pages 138 to 144.
The Committee’s work also included reviewing the financial 
statements, key finance policies including accounting, tax,  
and treasury, significant issues of judgement and, as described 
below under the section headed ‘Internal audit’, looking  
at the effectiveness of internal financial controls and  
assurance processes.
Ross McInnes 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
54 IMI plc Significant judgements related to the  
financial statements
Accounting for acquisitions 
During the year we acquired Bopp & Reuther. The valuation 
of goodwill and intangible assets and fair values of other 
assets were reviewed and agreed by the Committee. The 
result of that valuation is detailed in section 3.4 on page 100.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising  
from acquisitions
We considered the level of goodwill held on the Group’s 
balance sheet in respect of a number of past acquisitions 
and whether, given the future prospects of these businesses, 
the value of goodwill in each case remains appropriate. 
The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations 
used by management in the assessment of any impairment 
of goodwill and intangibles assets and agreed that no 
impairment charges were required. Section 3.2 to the 
financial statements on page 97 provides details regarding  
the Group’s intangible assets and goodwill.
Revenue recognition
The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition 
on some of the Group’s larger contracts running over 
several years. In addition, this is an area of audit focus and 
accordingly EY reported on this matter to the Committee. 
Having reviewed management’s process and EY’s report, 
the Committee concluded that revenues were appropriately 
reflected in the financial statements. Section 5 note C  
to the financial statements on page 128 provides  
further information.
Pensions accounting
An actuarial valuation in accordance with IAS19 has been 
performed on the Group’s defined benefit obligations. The 
Committee reviewed the appropriateness of this valuation, 
including the actuarial assumptions used and the treatment 
of one-off special pension events. The Committee also 
reviewed reporting from the external auditor. Further  
details can be found in section 4.5 on page 115.
Inventory valuation
The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to 
standard costing valuations and provisions against excess 
and obsolete inventory and concurred with management’s 
assessment. This was another focus area for EY, in respect 
of which it reported to the Committee that inventory 
valuation across the Group is considered appropriate.  
Note 3.1.1 to the financial statements on page 96  
provides details of inventory valuation. 
In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of 
costs disclosed as exceptional and the appropriateness of 
taxation provisions and further details on these are disclosed  
in sections 2.2 and 2.4 respectively.
External audit independence and performance review
The Committee approved the proposed external audit 
approach and its scope based on the size and level of risk 
of the entities concerned. The Committee also approved the 
internal audit programme. The Committee takes a risk based 
approach to audit and other assurance activity.
The Committee considered the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence 
the Committee had regard to best practice guidance for 
audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that 
its ethics and independence policies complied with the 
requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants  
in England and Wales.
The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is 
established and monitored by the Committee and requires 
approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any non-
audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000. The policy 
does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could 
compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning 
in the role of management or auditing its own work. Non-
audit fees paid to the auditor were £0.2m (2014: £0.3m), 
which represents 7% of the audit fee and demonstrated the 
tight control which is maintained in this area. We are of the 
view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not 
compromise the independence of the external auditor.
Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted to ensure 
that it is appropriate and competitive and the Committee 
approved the proposed audit fees payable to EY.
We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. The Committee adopted a formal framework by 
way of a questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the 
external auditor. The framework is completed annually  
by each member of the Committee and by the Finance 
Director. Feedback was also received from the Chief 
Executive, the Group Financial Controller, Group and 
Divisional Management. The feedback from this process  
was considered by the Committee and was provided to the 
external auditor. As a result of this exercise the Committee 
believes the performance has been satisfactory and the 
external auditor is considered to be effective. 
To further enhance the audit process certain improvement 
actions were identified and plans have been put in place 
to address these, including better visibility and integration 
of specialists and more timely completion of the statutory 
accounts of audited subsidiaries.
The FRC’s Audit Quality Review (‘AQR’) team completed  
a review of the 2014 external audit performed by EY.  
In respect of the matters within the scope of their review,  
no significant findings arose.
In 2016 the Committee’s review of the auditor will take 
account of the FRC’s May 2015 practice aid in relation  
to the evaluation of audit quality.
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report (cont’d)
Auditor choice, tenure and tendering
The Committee recommended and the Board approved  
the proposal to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. EY was first appointed  
as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2009 following  
a competitive tendering process, after which it replaced the 
previous auditor. The term of appointment is annual and there 
are no contractual restrictions on the Committee’s choice  
of auditor.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external 
audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within EY  
at least every five years and the current Senior Statutory 
Auditor has now been in place for three years and will change 
following completion of the 2017 audit. Succession planning 
includes having a second partner in place on the audit team. 
New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit firms 
have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after 
ten years (i.e. ahead of the 31 December 2019 audit) and a 
change of audit firm ahead of the 31 December 2029 audit, 
assuming in each case that EY remains in place as auditor 
until the completion of 2018 and 2028 audits respectively.  
The Committee reserves the right to run a tender for the  
audit role at any time but, if not conducted earlier, it will be 
undertaken in advance of the regulatory deadline ahead  
of the 2019 audit. 
Internal audit
The Committee also receives reports from and monitors 
the work of the internal audit function, known as Group 
Assurance. The appointment of a new Director of Risk and 
Compliance, reporting to the Chief Executive, is intended to 
accelerate the extension of internal audit into compliance and 
other areas of non-financial audit activity. Group Assurance 
reports through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the 
Chief Executive. Group Assurance also has a direct reporting 
line to the Committee. Assurance work is primarily directed 
towards financial control audits but has broadened into other 
areas including major business change project planning and 
implementation. The principal projects reviewed in 2015 were 
major computer systems implementations and significant 
capital projects. 
Group Assurance reviewed project management, governance 
and the ability to achieve the project objectives. These 
reviews have identified opportunities for process and project 
management improvements, and Group Assurance will help  
to facilitate sharing of best practice for similar major projects.
Compliance hotline
The Committee also reviews the operation of the independent 
compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the 
more significant reports received and considers how these 
are investigated and followed up. We believe that the hotline 
process and investigations are effective and proportionate  
action is taken in response.
Independent Committee evaluation 
The Audit Committee reviewed its own performance and  
terms of reference and received positive feedback from the 
evaluation exercise carried out by the Board and each of its 
standing committees.
The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
Yours faithfully
Ross McInnes 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 February 2016
56 IMI plc Dear Shareholder
Main areas of activity in 2015
The Committee carried out a successful search for a non-
executive director and used The Zygos Partnership as 
recruitment consultants. Committee members interviewed 
a range of candidates and the Committee made a 
recommendation to the Board for the appointment of  
Isobel Sharp as a non-executive director resulting in her 
appointment with effect from 1 September 2015.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board 
and its committees. It recommended changes in executive 
responsibilities and supported the selection of the new 
Divisional Managing Director, Massimo Grassi, for Precision 
Engineering. The Board approved all of the recommendations 
made by the Committee for the appointment of new directors 
and renewals of appointment for continuing directors. All of the 
directors are recommended for election or re-election at the 
2016 Annual General Meeting.
Anita Frew, formerly our senior independent non-executive 
director, and Bob Stack worked with Mark Selway on the 
selection of a successor for the outgoing Chairman, Roberto 
Quarta, resulting in the Board approving my own appointment. 
Zygos was also retained in respect of the recruitment for a  
new Chairman.
Members
All of the members of the Committee are regarded as 
independent other than the Chairman. Bob Stack was a 
member of the Committee throughout the year. Roberto  
Quarta and Anita Frew were members of the Committee until the 
2015 Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015, on which date 
Birgit Nørgaard and I became members. Mark Selway stepped 
down from the Committee on 26 February 2015. Carl-Peter 
Forster, Ross McInnes and Isobel Sharp became members  
of the Committee on 15 December 2015.
Review of time commitments and contributions
The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors 
are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including 
a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the 
Committee. The Committee considers that the time given to IMI 
by each non-executive director is sufficient. The Board is satisfied 
that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman. 
Since my appointment in May 2015, I have stepped down from 
the Chairmanships of SSE plc and Standard Bank Group Limited 
and subsequently became Chairman of Alliance Trust plc, which 
is my only other publicly listed company role outside IMI.
Succession planning
The Committee reviews Board skills and put in place a structured, 
medium-term plan for Board succession. During the year we 
reviewed talent development and succession planning for the 
top 250 roles in the Group with the support of the Group Human 
Resources Director and were encouraged to see that progress 
had been made in terms of embedding good processes and 
cultivating a pipeline of high calibre management talent.
Diversity
The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can 
bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing 
diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures. We will 
continue to review the composition of our management teams 
and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and 
experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution 
capabilities. At Board level, there are six nationalities, two of 
the five non-executive directors are female and there is a  
broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
In 2014 the Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
which applies to all IMI employees, contractors and agency 
workers, both direct and indirect via third parties. The policy is 
designed to take a broad approach to diversity and inclusion 
in order to reflect the UK legislative framework of the Equality 
Act 2010. IMI is committed to being compliant with the local 
legal and best practice frameworks in the countries in which 
it operates and therefore the application of the Diversity and 
Inclusion Policy will reflect the legal context in the jurisdictions  
in which it is applied.
Nominations Committee Report
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report (cont’d)
We are committed to ensuring that all employees and workers 
are treated fairly in an environment which is free from any form  
of discrimination with regard to the nine protected characteristics 
outlined in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, religion, race, 
sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage/civil partnership, 
pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation.
Our policy is to recruit the best people to execute our strategic 
priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint 
of the business, reflecting the location of our customers and 
markets. We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the best 
quality candidates, both internally and when recruiting externally,  
to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Group. In line 
with our recruitment practices, the Group strives to produce 
diverse shortlists for internal and external vacancies and 
specifically requests this of external providers, with the  
aim of encouraging and promoting diversity.
The Nominations Committee has agreed to measure progress  
on diversity metrics including gender and nationality mix, 
although specific targets have not been set. At the year end  
the mix of male and female employees across the Group is  
as follows:
As part of the performance management process in 2015, 
each Divisional Managing Director agreed objectives aimed at 
improving diversity in their area and our Executive Committee 
undertook a training session on diversity and inclusion.  
Further work is planned in both these areas for 2016. 
The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance  
and terms of reference and received positive feedback from  
the evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board  
and each of its committees. The Committee approved the 
foregoing report on its work.
Yours faithfully
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
25 February 2016
All 
employees
Managers Senior 
managers
Board 
directors
Female 3,197 198 106 2
Female % 26 18 15 22
Male 8,997 885 584 7
Male % 74 82 85 78
58 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report
“The Remuneration Committee has 
worked hard this year to ensure our new 
remuneration policy has been implemented 
consistently and is aligned to our strategic 
growth plan whilst reflecting a strong link 
between pay and performance.”
Annual Statement from the  
Chairman of the Committee
Bob Stack 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
2015 saw the first full year under our new remuneration policy 
which was strongly supported and approved by shareholders in 
2014. To simplify this year’s report, our approved remuneration 
policy can be found on our website www.imiplc.com. Our focus 
this year has been twofold, to ensure consistent application 
of the new policy whilst ensuring remuneration arrangements 
remain appropriate in light of the continuing difficult economic 
and market conditions.
2015 has been a challenging year for IMI with continued difficult 
economic and market conditions putting pressure on our ability 
to grow in the short-term. Trading conditions in many of our 
geographies and markets were tough. In particular economic 
slowdowns in both China and Brazil impacted both our  
Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering businesses  
and challenging trading conditions across industrial markets 
world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses.  
Despite this difficult environment our financial results were 
broadly in line with expectations.
Group profit before tax decreased by 21% to £219m while 
revenue of £1,557m decreased by 5% on an organic basis. 
Adjusted EPS decreased by 20% in 2015 and we declared  
a total dividend of 38.4p – an increase of 2% from last year. 
We remain focused on executing our strategic plans which 
includes investing in the business and capitalising on long-term 
growth opportunities. In particular, the investments made over 
the course of 2014 and 2015 give us improved potential to grow 
shareholder value in the long-term and we believe we are well 
positioned for progress in a depressed market. The Committee 
remains confident that the remuneration arrangements in place 
will continue to support the strategic business plan and ensure  
a strong focus on growth.
How were pay outcomes linked to performance?
Remuneration for the executive directors is closely tied  
to business performance with a high proportion of total 
remuneration delivered through variable pay linked to our 
strategic plan. At IMI we operate a strong pay-for-performance 
philosophy and as a result of the performance challenges  
I outlined above, the outcomes under our variable pay  
schemes are well below the targeted level.
Annual incentives paid to executive directors for 2015 were 
based on a combination of Group profit before tax, organic 
revenue growth, cash conversion and strategic and personal 
objectives. Below threshold performance under the Group  
profit before tax, and organic revenue growth measures were 
balanced by strong performance under the cash conversion 
measure. Our focus on investing for future growth has resulted  
in strong performance under the strategic and personal 
objectives, recognising the contribution made to achieving  
our strategic plan. Summary outcomes against financial  
targets are presented in the chart below:
Strategic and personal objectives vary by person as detailed 
later in the report. 
As the IMI Incentive Plan was only implemented last year,  
the first vesting of the award will be in 2018. 
Roy Twite and Douglas Hurt were granted a matching share 
award and performance award in 2013 and the awards  
vested at 17.3% and 0% respectively.
Group profit 
before tax
Target
100%
-21%
Profit before tax
- 5.0%
Revenue
+ 1,600bps
Cash conversion
0%
0%
Maximum
Organic revenue 
growth
Cash conversion
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
Corporate Governance The chart below provides a view of each executive directors’ 
single figure of remuneration over the course of 2014 and 2015:
What changes were made in 2015?
The Committee reviewed remuneration arrangements for the 
executive directors during the year and remain confident that they 
remain fit-for-purpose with no changes to structure required. 
The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executive 
directors in light of 2015 business performance and concluded 
that an increase of 2.1%, effective 1 January 2016, was 
appropriate and in line with the wider employee workforce.
The Chairman and non-executive director fees were increased  
by 2.0%, effective 1 January 2016 in line with the wider 
employee workforce.
Looking forward
The Committee anticipates 2016 to be another difficult trading 
year with market and economic head winds featuring heavily. 
Notwithstanding these issues the committee plans to implement 
the approved policy on a similar basis to 2015.
The Committee will keep the existing remuneration policy  
under review to ensure it continues to support IMI’s strategic 
growth plan.
Yours faithfully
Bob Stack 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2016 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d)
2015
£1.667m
2014 2014
M W Selway
Chief Executive
Fixed pay Other items Annual 
variable pay
Long-term 
variable pay
Not
Applicable
R M Twite
Executive Director
D J Shook
Finance Director
2014
£1.567m
2015 2015
£0.773m
£1.952m
£0.956m
60 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Remuneration Report
Introduction
The Committee presents the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders for an 
advisory (non-binding) vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2016. The report includes 
details of the Committee, the pay received by our executive directors during the year in accordance with  
our current remuneration policy (approved on 7 May 2015) and comparative internal and external data.
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’)
Composition
The members of the Committee during the year were Bob 
Stack (Chairman), Carl-Peter Forster and Birgit Nørgaard. 
Roberto Quarta and Anita Frew were members of the 
Committee until they stepped down from their positions after 
the AGM in May 2015. In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all of the non-executive directors were 
regarded by the Board as independent.
Responsibility
The Committee determines the remuneration policy and 
rewards for the executive directors and, in his absence,  
the Chairman. The Committee also reviews the remuneration 
packages of those at the next most senior level of management 
and has regard to levels of pay across the Group. A copy of the 
terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, is included in 
the IMI Corporate Governance Framework and available in the 
Corporate Governance section of the IMI website.
Internal advisors to the Committee
During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, 
regarding the packages of the other executive directors and 
senior managers. It also received the advice of the Finance 
Director, the Group Human Resources Director, the Head 
of Group Reward and the Company Secretary, who is also 
secretary to the Committee. None of these individuals was 
involved in determining their own remuneration.
External advisers to the Committee
Independent remuneration consultant, Willis Towers Watson, 
is formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice 
on directors’ remuneration to the Committee in 2015. The 
Committee noted that the firm are actuaries and administrators 
for the IMI Pension Fund and provided some broader reward  
and human resources support to management. The Committee 
is comfortable that these activities do not represent a conflict 
of interest and that objective and independent advice continues 
to be received by the Committee from the dedicated team 
servicing it at Willis Towers Watson.
During 2015, Willis Towers Watson has also supported 
management on some broader reward and human resource 
matters. The fees charged by Willis Towers Watson in respect 
of advice and services to the Committee totalled £50,000 
and for support to management totalled £27,178 in 2015. 
Willis Towers Watson are signatories to the Remuneration 
Consultants’ Code of Conduct in the UK. 
A summary of the Committee activities during 2015
The Committee had three formal meetings during the year,  
that were attended by all members. The principal agenda 
items were as follows:
•  a review of total compensation packages of the executive 
directors and the most senior management of the Group  
to ensure alignment with IMI’s strategic growth plan;
•  approval of achievements and outcomes under the  
incentive plans;
• consideration of the fees for the new Chairman;
•  setting the framework and target levels for the 2015  
incentive cycle;
•  approval of the granting of share awards for executive 
directors and certain other levels of management;
•   a review of the UK corporate governance environment 
relative to remuneration;
• a risk review of the remuneration framework;
•  a review of the engagement of independent remuneration 
consultants to the Committee; and
•  a review of the Committee’s own performance, constitution 
and terms of reference.
Voting outcome at the 2015 Annual General Meeting
The following table summarises the details of votes cast in 
respect of the remuneration resolutions along with the number 
of votes cast as a percentage of the issued share capital 
(‘ISC’). The Committee was pleased with the level of support 
shown by shareholders and will continue to consider the  
views of, and feedback from, shareholders when setting  
and reporting on remuneration arrangements.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Votes for Votes against Votes withheld 
(abstentions)
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 96.55% 3.45% 3,352,149
Annual Remuneration Policy 98.52% 1.48% 2,525,925
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Remuneration Report
Executive single figure table (audited)
These figures have been calculated as follows:
Base salary: the actual salary receivable for the year.
Pension:  the cash allowance paid in lieu of pension. 
Taxable benefits:  the gross value of all taxable benefits (or benefits  
that would be taxable in the UK) received in the year.
Annual incentive bonus:  the value of the annual incentive payable for 
performance in respect of the relevant financial  
year (half of this is automatically delivered in shares 
when the executive does not meet the share  
ownership requirement). 
Share Matching Plan:  the value on vesting of the matching shares that  
were subject to performance over the three-year  
period ending on 31 December in the relevant financial 
year (see share price assumptions adjacent).
Performance Share Plan:  the value on vesting of shares that were subject  
to performance over the three-year period ending  
on 31 December in the relevant financial year  
(see share price assumptions adjacent).
Share price assumptions:  for shares vesting in 2016, that related to performance 
in the three years to 31 December 2015, the average 
share price over the final three months of 2015 
(940.93 pence) is used to estimate the value of shares 
on vesting. For shares vested in 2015, relating to 
performance in the three years to 31 December 2014, 
previously reported figures
2
 are updated to reflect the 
actual share price on the date of vesting (1,193.00 
pence for the Share Matching Plan and 1,253.00 pence 
for the Performance Share Plan).
All-employee share plans:  the value of free shares and dividends (‘SIP’) at award 
made in the relevant financial year and the intrinsic 
value of share options on the date of grant (‘SAYE’) in 
the relevant financial year (applying a 10% discount).
Dividend equivalent  the value of dividend equivalent shares on vested but
payments: unexercised awards under the share plans, valued at  
  the price on the dividend payment date.
1
  Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the table reflects payments  
to this date.
2
  The average share price over the final three months of 2014 (1,204.86 pence) 
was used.
Director
Fixed pay 
(£000)
Annual variable 
pay
(£000)
Long-term variable pay
(£000)
Other items in the nature  
of remuneration
(£000)
Total
(£000) Base salary Pension
Taxable 
benefits 
Annual 
incentive 
bonus
Share 
Matching 
Plan  
(‘SMP’)
Performance 
Share  
Plan (‘PSP’)
Subtotal
long-term 
variable  
pay
All- 
employee 
share plans
Dividend 
equivalent 
payments
See page Page 64 Page 64 Page 65
Pages 
65 to 66 Page 67
Pages 
67 to 68 Page 69 Page 69
M W Selway
2015 770 231 50 611 - - - 5 - 1,667
2014 750 225 45 545 - - - 2 - 1,567
R M Twite
2015 445 156 19 194 138 - 138 4 - 956
2014 430 151 19 197 1,106 - 1,106 3 46 1,952
D J Shook
2015 400 80 100 193 - - - - - 773
2014 - - - - - - - - - -
D M Hurt
1
2015 150 52 6 75 104 - 104 - - 387
2014 430 151 21 191 1,202 - 1,202 4 148 2,147
R M Twite served on the board of Halma plc during the year and received fees of £48,000 in respect of this appointment. D M Hurt served on the boards  
of Vesuvius plc and Tate & Lyle plc during his time as a director of IMI plc and received fees of £6,411 and £25,221 respectively. 
62 IMI plc Comparative data
The following information is intended to provide additional context 
regarding the total remuneration for executive directors.
Relative importance of pay spend
 
In 2015, the total dividend for the year of 38.4 pence represented 
an increase of 2% over last year’s 37.6 pence. As a result of the 
sale of the Retail Dispense divisions an additional special return 
of £620m was made to shareholders in 2014 and there was a 
consolidation of the Group’s equity with the issue of seven new 
shares for every eight held. 
Relative percentage change in remuneration for  
Chief Executive
The Committee actively considers any increases in base 
pay for the Chief Executive relative to the broader employee 
population. However, benefits and bonus payments are not 
typically compared given they are driven by a far broader 
range of factors, such as local practices, eligibility, individual 
circumstances and role.
Historical performance and remuneration
In addition to considering executive remuneration in the 
context of internal comparisons, the Committee reviews 
annually historical outcomes under the variable pay plans.
The graph below compares IMI’ s TSR to the FTSE100 over the 
last seven years. We compare performance to the FTSE100 as 
it is a position where IMI aspires to be and IMI was historically 
traded on the broad market index, therefore, allowing for 
consistent comparisons. TSR measures the returns that a 
company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share 
price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends 
(source: DataStream), with data averaged over the final 30 
days of each financial year.
As the graph below illustrates, IMI’s absolute and relative  
TSR performance has been strong over the last seven years. 
This is reflected in the outcomes under our variable pay plans, 
which are largely driven by the financial performance of the 
Group and IMI’s share price.
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Change
Acquisitions 106.2 - -
Dividends 102.5 97.3 5%
Return of cash - 620.3 -100%
Purchase of own shares - 40.0 -100%
Total employment costs for Group 
(see section 2.1.3.1 on page 89)
508.2 535.5 -5%
Chief Executive Employees
1
Base salary 2.7% 3.9%
Benefits 11.1% 0.9%
Annual bonus 12.1% 6.6%
400
300
200
500
100
0
600
£445
£190
700
800  
£
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
IMI FTSE100 Total return from a hypothetical £100 investment
1
  All UK head office employees. This comparison excludes our international 
workforce which we feel would not provide a true comparison given differing 
local market factors.
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d)
Executive remuneration received in respect of 2015 
Base salary
Salaries effective January 2015 were agreed taking into account 
a range of factors including the prevailing economic conditions, 
the financial performance of the Group and salary increases 
for other employees. The average increase for employees was 
2.9%, compared to 2.2% for the executive directors. Mark 
Selway’s and Roy Twite’s salaries increased by 2.7% and 3.5% 
to £770,000 and £445,000 respectively. Daniel Shook was 
appointed on a salary of £400,000 from 1 January 2015.
Pension
Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash 
allowance instead of pension benefits. With the Committee’s 
approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, redirect 
part or all of their allowance into any defined contribution pension 
arrangement in the country in which they are contracted. Mark 
Selway receives a cash allowance of 30% of salary and Daniel 
Shook receives a cash allowance of 20% of salary. Roy Twite 
receives a cash allowance of 35% of salary as legacy obligations 
to those appointed to the Board before October 2013 continue  
to be honoured. Douglas Hurt was eligible for a cash allowance  
of 35% of salary.
Pension benefits for past service
Roy Twite was previously an active member of the defined 
benefit IMI Pension Fund. He opted out with effect from  
1 February 2007 and as a result, he retains past pensionable 
service up to that date in the IMI 2014 Deferred Fund  
(‘the Fund’). 
The key elements of the benefits in the Fund are  
summarised below:
•  the normal retirement age under the Fund is 62 and Roy Twite 
may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 
without actuarial discount.
•  on death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided 
equal to 50% of the member’s pension.
•  should he die within the first five years of retirement, the 
dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the member’s 
pension for the remainder of the five year period.
•  pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum 
pension, are increased each year in line with price inflation  
up to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before  
1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up  
after 1 January 2006.
Accrued pension in 
the Fund as at 31 
December 2015
£000pa
Accrued pension in 
the Fund as at 31 
December 2014 
£000pa
R M Twite 69 67
Financial year ended 31 December 2009
1
2010
1
2011
1
2012
1
2013
1
2014
2
2015
2
Total remuneration
(single figure, £000)
2,547 4,439 12,289 7,954 6,688 1,567 1,667
Annual variable pay
(% of maximum)
91% 95% 85% 47% 62% 36% 40%
Long-term variable pay  
(% of maximum) -  
Share Matching Plan
64% 97% 95% 100% 100% - -
Long-term variable pay
(% of maximum) -  
Performance Share Plan
45% 100% 100% 100% 82.6% - -
The following table summarises the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last seven years, and the outcomes of short 
and long-term incentive plans as a % of maximum.
1
 Represents remuneration for Martin Lamb.
2
  Represents remuneration for Mark Selway who was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014. No payments under long-term incentive plans will be made until 2016. 
64 IMI plc Benefits 
During the year the executive directors received a number of 
benefits. These are summarised below and amounts less than 
£10,000 p.a. are combined.
 
1
  Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the table reflects payments to 
this date.
In addition to the above benefits and allowances that are 
included in the single figure (refer to table on page 62), the 
executive directors are also beneficiaries of company policies 
that have no taxable value, including directors’ insurance, death 
in service cover, travel insurance, the use of a company driver 
and personal accident cover. 
Annual incentive bonus
The 2015 bonus plan focused on the financial performance of 
IMI during the year, considering Group profit before tax (40%), 
organic revenue growth (20%), cash conversion (20%) and 
strategic and personal objectives (20%). Health and safety 
underpins the plan to ensure bonuses are only paid out when 
minimum standards are achieved.
2015 was a challenging year for IMI with difficult economic  
and market conditions contributing to weaker financial results 
than expected:
•  Group profit before tax decreased to £219m in 2015 from 
£278m 2014, representing 21% decrease;
•  Group revenue decreased by 5% on an organic basis 
compared to 2014;
•  cash conversion was 97%, compared with 81% in 2014; 
•  the total dividend for the year increased by 2% compared  
to 2014; and
•  strong performance for health and safety with leading 
measures showing benefits from lean and HSE integration  
in the year.
Summarised in the table below is the achievement against Group targets set at the beginning of the year alongside the resulting 
contribution to bonus payout.
1
  Roy Twite’s annual bonus opportunity is dependent on a combination of Group (40%) and Critical Engineering (40%) financial objectives in line with his role’s 
responsibilities. The Committee believes that the specific business unit targets are commercially sensitive and are therefore not disclosed in the table above.
2
  Group Profit Before tax actual performance of £231.0m is stated at the exchange rates used in the targets, which results in a £12.0m increase when  
compared with reported results, and includes £0.3m of profit for the performance of disposed businesses included within the target.
M W Selway R M Twite D J Shook D M Hurt
1
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Non-cash benefits (£000)
Total 1 1 2 2 11 - - 1
Cash benefits and taxable allowances (£000)
Company 
car and fuel 
allowance
20 19 17 17 14 - 6 17
Relocation - - - - 75 - - -
Other 29 25 - - - - - 3
Total 50 45 19 19 100 - 6 21
Annual bonus metrics
1
 2015 
performance 
required
Actual performance Payout as a 
percentage of 
maximum
Weighting as a 
percentage of total 
bonus opportunity
Contribution 
to payout as a 
percentage of 
maximum bonus 
opportunity
Group profit before tax Threshold £278.6m £231.0m
(adjusted)
2
0% 40.0% 0%
Target £287.7m
Maximum £296.7m
Organic revenue growth Threshold 0.0% -5.2% 0% 20.0% 0%
Target 1.8%
Maximum 3.0%
Cash conversion  
(FY figures shown)
Threshold 65.0% 97.4% 100% 20.0% 20.0%
Target 77.0%
Maximum 84.0%
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d)
Share interests granted to executive directors during 2015 (audited) 
Grants made under the IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’)
As approved at the AGM, grants under the IIP were made on 7 May 
2015 in the form of nil-cost options. Awards will vest subject to 
performance in three core areas aligned to our long-term strategic 
priorities: return on capital employed (25%), relative T otal Shareholder 
Return (25%) and Group profit before tax growth (50%).
All of the performance measures are defined in such a manner to 
allow the Committee discretion to make further adjustments to the 
definitions as it determines is fair and reasonable. The performance 
targets that apply to the 2015 IIP awards are as follows:
The following grants were approved and made in 2015:
The IIP is also used to grant deferred bonus awards exercisable 
after three years to satisfy bonus delivered in the form of shares. 
Details of these awards made in 2015 are shown in the table on 
page 70 under the ‘without performance conditions’ column.
ROCE Relative 
TSR
Group profit 
before tax 
growth
Level of 
vesting
Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25%
Maximum 50% Upper 
quartile
7.5% 100%
Weighting 25% 25% 50% -
IIP shares 
awarded
Value on date of 
award
1
(£000)
Award as a 
percentage of 
salary
M W Selway 154,041 1,925 250%
R M Twite 71,218 890 200%
D J Shook 48,012 600 150%
D M Hurt Nil Nil Nil
1
 The three day average mid-market price on the date of award was 1,249.67 pence.
In addition to these quantifiable measures, each executive director has a number of personal objectives. Objectives are agreed with 
the individual during the first quarter of the financial year, and pertain to areas directly within their remit. These personal objectives 
and the Committee’s assessment of individuals’ performance against them is described below, to the extent the Committee does 
not believe the information to be commercially sensitive.
Individual performance metrics 2015 performance required Payout as a 
percentage of 
maximum
Weighting as 
a percentage 
of total bonus 
opportunity
Contribution to payout 
as a percentage of 
maximum bonus 
opportunity
Individual performance objectives 
are robustly set and are customised 
for each individual. All objectives 
are measurable and are objectively 
determined. Individual objectives for 
2015 were built around the Group’s 
key performance indicators.
M W Selway:
Objectives included areas such as organisation, 
strategy, financial integrity and specific projects.
98.3% 20.0% 19.7%
D J Shook:
Objectives included areas such as strengthening 
investor/analyst relationships, financial process 
improvements, strategy and specific IT projects.
93.4% 20.0% 18.7%
R M Twite:
Objectives included areas such as diversity, 
strategy, core process and specific projects.
95.0% 20.0% 19.0%
D M Hurt:
Objectives included areas such as effective and 
efficient transition to Daniel Shook.
100.0% 20.0% 20.0%
In aggregate this resulted in the following short-term incentive outcomes:
1
 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and annual bonus paid was pro-rated based on his employment up to that date.
2015 maximum 
bonus opportunity 
(% of salary)
Total bonus 
awarded (£000)
Total bonus 
awarded  
(% of salary)
Achievement of share 
ownership guidelines 
at 31 Dec 2015
Bonus delivered 
in form of cash 
(£000)
Bonus delivered 
in form of shares 
(£000)
M W Selway 200% 611 79% 10% 305 306
R M Twite 150% 194 44% 117% 194 -
D J Shook 125% 193 48% 6% 96 97
D M Hurt
1
150% 75 50% N/A 75 -
66 IMI plc The Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) – the last grant made 
under this plan was in 2014 and will vest in 2017
In March 2013, awards were made to Roy Twite and Douglas 
Hurt under the PSP . The vesting of the awards was subject to 
the achievement of three independent performance conditions: 
EPS growth (50%), relative TSR (25%) and organic revenue 
growth (25%), measured over the three years ending  
31 December 2015. 
The 2013 PSP award will vest at 0%.
•  EPS gr owth
  Under the PSP , EPS is defined as adjusted basic earnings 
per share before the post-tax impact of any reported 
exceptional items, which may include impairment losses, 
profit/ loss on disposal of a subsidiary, rationalisation costs, 
acquired intangible amortisation and IAS39 charges or 
credits for changes in the fair value of financial instruments. 
EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it 
rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and because 
the Committee believed it worked well in combination with 
TSR which is an external, relative measure of performance.
   
Growth of 6% per annum would trigger the minimum level  
of vesting (25% of the EPS element), increasing on a 
straight-line basis such that awards were eligible to vest  
in full for EPS growth of 15% per annum. Over the period  
IMI delivered EPS growth of -5.7% per annum, decreasing 
EPS from 64.7 pence in 2012
4
 to a comparable 54.2 pence 
at the end of 2015
5
.
Awards vesting under legacy share plans
The Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) – the last grant made under 
this plan was in 2014 and will vest in 2017
Roy Twite and Douglas Hurt received an award under the SMP 
in May 2013. At the date of awards, Roy and Douglas both 
exceeded their share ownership requirements and as such 
were invited to invest up to the maximum permitted. The 2013 
SMP award will vest at 17.3%.
Vesting was subject to the achievement of an Economic Value 
Added (‘EVA’) performance condition, measured over the three 
years ending 31 December 2015. The calculation of EVA is 
based on segmental operating profit after tax with appropriate 
adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in 
the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital.
The performance measure considered compound annual 
growth in EVA over the three financial years from 2013 to 
2015 compared to EVA in the preceding three financial years. 
Awards lapse for negative compound growth. However  
for positive growth between 0% and 6%, 10% to 25% of 
matching shares vested; and for growth between 6% and  
17%, 25% to 100% of matching shares vested. Within  
each range, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis.
Over the period IMI delivered compound annual EVA growth of 2.9% based on three-year EVA from 2013 to 2015 of £557.4m 
compared to three-year EVA from 2010 to 2012 of £511.5m. The total awards vesting for Roy Twite in March 2016 will be:
1
 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,226.00 pence.
2
  Awards will vest on 9 April 2016. The value of shares on vesting is estimated using the average price over the last quarter of 2015 (940.93 pence). Awards take the 
form of nil-cost options and can be exercised over a period of up to seven years following vesting, unless reduced under the terms of an individual’s departure.
3
 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the award vesting was pro-rated based on his employment up to that date.
Shares 
invested by the 
executive
Initial 
matching 
award
Value on date 
of award
 1 
(£000)
Number of 
matching shares 
vesting
Additional 
dividend 
equivalent 
shares
Total matching 
shares vesting
Value of matching 
shares on vesting
2 
(£000)
R M Twite 18,086 78,000 956 13,494 1,142 14,636 138
D M Hurt
3
19,659 58,637 719 10,144 858 11,002 104
4
 Adjusted for IAS19
5
  Adjusted for 2014 share consolidation and the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d)
Initial award Value on date of 
award
1
(£000)
Number of initial 
shares vesting
Additional dividend 
equivalent shares
Total shares 
vesting
Value of shares on 
vesting
(£000)
R M Twite 31,500 417 - - - -
D M Hurt
2
31,500 417 - - - -
1
 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,324.00 pence.
2
 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the award vesting will be pro-rated based on his employment up to that date.
In aggregate, none of the initial number of shares awarded were released to the executives and other participants.
• Relative TSR
  TSR is defined as the movement in share price during 
the performance period, measured in local currency, with 
adjustments to take account of changes in capital structure 
and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested in shares 
on the ex-dividend date. TSR was chosen as a measure as it 
is an external, relative benchmark for performance that aligns 
executives’ rewards with the creation of shareholder value.
UK
BBA Aviation
Bodycote
Cobham
GKN
Halma 
Johnson Matthey
Meggitt 
Rotork
Spectris
Spirax-Sarco Engineering
Vesuvius
Weir Group
US
Borgwarner
Eaton
Emerson Electric
Flowserve Corp
Honeywell
IDEX
Illinois Tool Works
Ingersoll-Rand
Manitowoc
Parker-Hannifin
Pentair
Tyco International
Japan
Amada
Fanuc
NSK
SMC
THK
Yaskawa Electric
Continental Europe
Atlas Copco
Heidelberg Druckmaschinen
Metso Corporation
Sandvik
SKF B
Sulzer AG
At the end of the three-year performance period, the Company 
ranked 31 in the peer group. The Committee was in agreement 
that the outcome under the TSR measure was reflective of the 
general underlying financial performance of the Company.
•  Organic revenue growth
  Organic growth is calculated as an average annual growth 
rate, to encourage continued focus on organic growth. 
Revenue is defined as segmental revenues before exceptional 
items adjusted, at the Committee’s discretion, to exclude the 
impact of material acquisitions and disposals by the Company 
completed during the performance period and to remove the 
impact of exchange rate movements.
  Organic revenue growth of 2.7% per annum would trigger the 
minimum level of vesting (25% of the organic revenue element) 
increasing on a straight-line basis such that awards were eligible 
to vest in full for growth of 8% per annum. Over the period IMI 
delivered growth of -0.7%.
The 2013 peer group comprised the companies shown 
opposite, adjusted to take account of merger and acquisition 
activity during the performance period in line with the 
Committee’s established guidelines.
68 IMI plc All-employee share plans
Executive directors are entitled to participate in the all-employee share plans on the same terms as other eligible employees at 
IMI. In 2015, Mark Selway and Roy Twite received free share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan. Mark Selway 
received SAYE awards in 2015 of 836 shares.
Share Incentive Plan SAYE
Dividends
(£000)
Total value under 
the all-employee 
share plans (£000)
Number of shares 
awarded 
Value of free  
share award
1
(£000)
Number of options 
awarded
Value of SAYE 
options
2
(£000)
M W Selway
2015 289 4 836 1 - 5
2014 73 1 650 1 - 2
R M Twite
2015 289 4 - - - 4
2014 196 3 - - - 3
D J Shook
2015 - - - - - -
2014 - - - - - -
D M Hurt
2015 - - - - - -
2014 196 3 650 1 - 4
1
 In 2015 free shares were awarded at a share price of 1,245.00 pence (1,526.00 pence in 2014).
2
  In 2015 SAYE awards were made at a 10% discount and the value shown is the intrinsic gain at the date of the grant, calculated in accordance with the single figure 
requirements (on page 62).
Dividend payments
Under the SMP and PSP , dividend equivalent payments are 
made on vested but unexercised share awards, which take  
the form of nil-cost options. Dividend equivalents, while 
notionally tracked by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid  
or transferred to the participant until the point of exercise. 
These have been included in the single figure (the table 
on page 62) based on the number of dividend equivalents 
notionally accrued in the financial year, valued at the price on  
the dividend payment date. Any residual cash is rolled over 
and applied to the subsequent dividend equivalent purchase.
Payments to past directors (audited)
It is the Committee’s intention to disclose any payments to past 
directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post 
departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors.
The Committee can confirm that under the terms of his 
departure, Sean Toomes’ 2012 PSP and SMP awards were 
pro-rated to the date of his departure (30 June 2013) and 
vested, subject to the performance conditions, on 4 May 
2015 and 10 May 2015 respectively. No shares vested under 
the PSP and a total of 23,420 shares vested under the SMP 
(21,145 award shares and 2,275 dividend shares) which 
equated to a value on the vesting date of £279,401.
The Committee can confirm that under the terms of his 
departure, Martin Lamb’s 2013 PSP and SMP awards vested, 
subject to the performance conditions, on 12 March 2016 and 
9 April 2016 respectively. No shares vested under the PSP and 
a total of 23,254 shares vested under the SMP (21,440 award 
shares and 1,814 dividend shares) which equated to a value  
at vesting of £218,804.
Payments made to Douglas Hurt during his period as a past 
director are disclosed in the table on page 62 and do not 
include any payments for loss of office.
Dividend equivalent payments for vested but unexercised  
nil-cost option awards will continue to be made to past 
directors under the terms of the original grant.
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
Corporate Governance Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)
The following table summarises the share interests of any director who served during the year as at 31 December 2015 or at the 
date of retirement from the Board. 
During the period 31 December 2015 to 25 February 2016 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from those 
shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 12 January 2016 of 16 shares on behalf of each of  
M W Selway, D J Shook and R M Twite at 788p per share, and 9 February 2016 of 16 shares on behalf of each of M W Selway,  
R M Twite and D J Shook at 777p per share.
1
 Share interests as at retirement on 7 May 2015.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d)
Director Total 
interests
Beneficial 
interests
Scheme interests
Nil-cost options All-employee 
share plans
With performance conditions Without performance conditions
Unvested Vested but 
unexercised
Unvested Vested but 
unexercised
M W Selway 400,557 9,016 368,843
-
22,100 - 598
R M Twite 410,045 112,421 291,325
-
- - 6,299
D J Shook 52,747 4,000 48,653 - - - 94
D M Hurt
1
855,515 66,351 369,062 418,531 - - 1,571
Lord Smith of Kelvin 8,300 8,300 -
-
- - -
R Quarta
1
7,248 7,248 -
-
- - -
C P Forster 2,625 2,625 -
-
- - -
A M Frew
1
6,562 6,562 -
-
- - -
B Nørgaard 2,625 2,625 -
-
- - -
R J Stack 13,125 13,125 -
-
- - -
R McInnes 3,000 3,000 - - - - -
I Sharp 3,000 3,000 - - - - -
Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ single figure table (audited)
The following table summarises the total fees and benefits paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the 
financial years ending 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
1
 Joined the IMI Board in 2015 and became the Chairman at the 2015 AGM.
2
 Stepped down as Chairman at the 2015 AGM.
3
  Appointed senior independent director May 2013 and stepped down at  
the 2015 AGM.
4
 Appointed senior independent director at the 2015 AGM.
5
  Appointed 1 October 2014 and became Audit Committee Chair  
on 1 January 2015.
6
  Joined the IMI Board on 1 September 2015 and is a member of  
the Audit Committee.
Director
2015 (£000) 2014 (£000)
Base fees Additional fees Total Base fees Additional fees Total
Lord Smith of Kelvin
1
195 - 195 - - -
R Quarta
2
106 - 106 300 - 300
C P Forster
 
60 - 60 60 - 60
A M Frew
3
21 4 25 60 10 70
B Nørgaard 60 - 60 60 - 60
R J Stack
4
60 22 82 60 15 75
R McInnes
5
60 15 75 15 - 15
I Sharp
6
20 - 20 - - -
70 IMI plc From 2015, the Committee requires Mark Selway to build up  
a shareholding of at least 250% of salary, 200% of salary in  
the case of Roy Twite and 150% of salary for Daniel Shook,  
to mirror the IMI Incentive Plan Award. At the end of the 
year Roy Twite significantly exceeded the share ownership 
guideline. Daniel Shook made progress towards his guideline 
through direct market purchase of shares. 
Application of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2016 
Service contracts
The unexpired terms of the Directors’ service contracts can  
be reviewed in the Board’s Corporate Governance Report  
on page 49.
Executive director fixed pay
Salaries effective January 2016 were agreed taking into 
account a range of factors including the prevailing economic 
conditions, the financial performance of the Group and salary 
increases for other employees.
The average increase for employees was 2.7%, compared to 
2.1% for the executive directors. Mark Selway’s, Roy Twite’s 
and Daniel Shook’s salaries were increased by 1.9%, 2.0% 
and 2.5% to £785,000, £454,000 and £410,000 respectively. 
Other elements of fixed pay (benefits and pension) will  
remain unchanged.
Incentive pay
Annual bonus
In accordance with the approved remuneration policy, the 
annual bonus plan will be operated as follows in 2016:
•  2016 bonus opportunity is set at 200% of salary for Mark 
Selway, 150% for Roy Twite and 125% for Daniel Shook.
•  Bonus will be paid subject to performance in Group profit 
before tax (40%), organic revenue growth (20%), cash 
conversion (20%) and strategic and personal objectives 
(20%). Health and safety will serve as an underpin to  
ensure bonuses are only paid out when minimum  
standards are achieved.
•  In 2016 the annual bonus weightings for Roy Twite 
will change to reflect his leadership role for the Critical 
Engineering division. His 2016 annual bonus will be subject 
to IMI Group profit before tax (35%), Critical Engineering 
operating profits (15%), Critical Engineering organic revenue 
growth (15%), Critical Engineering cash conversion (15%) 
and strategic and personal objectives (20%).
•  The Committee has determined that the targets associated 
with the performance measures has been disclosed 
retrospectively (refer to table on page 65).
IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’)
In accordance with the approved remuneration policy,  
the IIP will be operated as follows in 2016:
•  2016 awards are set at 250% of salary for Mark Selway, 
200% for Roy Twite and 150% for Daniel Shook.
•  Awards will vest subject to performance in three core areas 
aligned to our longer-term strategic priorities: return on 
capital employed (25%), relative Total Shareholder Return 
(25%) and Group profit before tax growth (50%).
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration 
increased by 2.0%, effective 1 January 2016. This is in line with 
the executive directors and the wider employee workforce. 
Share ownership for the Chairman and non-executive directors
The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged  
to hold some shares in IMI within a reasonable period after 
their appointment. As at 25 February 2016, the Chairman  
and non-executive directors hold IMI shares as set out in  
the table on page 70.
Bob Stack  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
for and on behalf of the Board
25 February 2016
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
Corporate Governance Company 
Financial 
Statements
Section 2 - 
Results for the Year
Primary 
Statements
Section 4 - 
Capital Structure 
and Financing Costs
Section 3 - 
Operating Assets 
and Liabilities
Section 5 - 
Other Notes
Section 1 - 
Basis of Preparation
Introduction
The financial statements for the holding 
company of the Group, IMI plc.
Further information relating to the 
performance of the Group during the 
year, providing supporting analysis for 
items reported in the income statement.
The primary statements for the Group, 
including the consolidated income 
statement, balance sheet and  
statement of cash flows.
Information relating to equity, debt 
and retirement benefit obligations in 
the year-end balance sheet, which 
together form our capital base.
Further information relating to the 
assets and liabilities of the Group at the 
year-end, providing supporting analysis 
for operating items reported in the 
balance sheet.
Other supporting notes to the Group 
financial statements, including the 
accounting policies.
A description of the key factors 
underpinning the Group financial 
statements and significant changes  
in comparison to the prior year.
An explanation of the financial impacts 
of the key events during the year from 
our Finance Director, Daniel Shook, 
together with a more detailed index  
to the financial statements.
145-151
85-95
76-83
103-126 96-102
127-132
74
84
Financial Statements
Engineering 
GREAT the 
IMI Way 
IMI plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
IMI Critical Engineering invested 
£7m in a brand new world-class 
facility at Paju, South Korea 
in order to support its Korean 
growth ambitions. This fantastic 
facility was delivered in just  
8 months
Below far left 
IMI Critical Engineering’s brand new facility in Houston, Texas
Below left 
Inside view of IMI Critical Engineering’s new Korean factory 
showing engineered valves awaiting final test
73
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction Financial Statements 74 IMI plc
Financial statements
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S INTRODUCTION
Introduction from Daniel Shook 
Dear Shareholder
Welcome to the financial statements section of our Annual Report.
My financial review commentary is set out in this section alongside the primary statements. These financial statements are presented 
with the primary statements first, followed by five sections: ‘Basis of preparation’, ‘Results for the year’, ‘Operating assets and 
liabilities’, ‘Capital structure and financing costs’ and ‘Other notes’.
I am very pleased with the progress the IMI Finance Team has made in 2015 to further strengthen our control environment and 
support our businesses. In the year we fully launched a new, best-in-class Treasury Management System and made considerable 
progress in strengthening our financial controls. All businesses performed two internal control reviews and declarations, providing 
evidence that our hard work is delivering improvements across the organisation.
Despite difficult market conditions, IMI continues to deliver good results and, importantly, advance its longer term strategic initiatives 
to position the Group for future growth. 
Daniel Shook
Finance Director 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Primary statements
Consolidated income statement and commentary thereon  ........................................... 76
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and commentary thereon  ............... 78
Consolidated statement of changes in equity and commentary thereon  ........................ 79
Consolidated balance sheet and commentary thereon .................................................. 80 
Consolidated statement of cash flows and commentary thereon  .................................. 82 
Section 1 – Basis of preparation  .............................................................................. 84
Section 2 – Results for the year
2.1 Segmental information  ............................................................................................ 85
2.2 Exceptional items  ................................................................................................... 90
2.3 Earnings per ordinary share  .................................................................................... 91
2.4 Taxation  .................................................................................................................. 92
2.5 Discontinued operations  ......................................................................................... 95
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
3.1 Working capital  ....................................................................................................... 96
3.2 Intangible assets  ..................................................................................................... 97
3.3 Property, plant and equipment  ................................................................................ 99
3.4 Acquisitions  .......................................................................................................... 100
3.5 Disposals  .............................................................................................................. 101
3.6 Provisions  ............................................................................................................. 102
Section 4 – Capital structure and financing costs
4.1 Net debt  ............................................................................................................... 103
4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  .................................................................. 104
4.3 Net financing costs  ............................................................................................... 105
4.4 Financial risk management  ................................................................................... 106
4.5 Retirement benefits  ............................................................................................... 115 
4.6 Share capital  ........................................................................................................ 121
4.7 Share-based payments  ........................................................................................ 123
4.8 Non-controlling interests  ....................................................................................... 126
Section 5 – Other notes
5.1 Contingent liabilities  .............................................................................................. 127
5.2 Related party transactions  .................................................................................... 127
5.3 Subsequent events  ............................................................................................... 127
5.4 Significant accounting policies  .............................................................................. 127
Directors’ Report  ..................................................................................................... 133
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities ............................................................... 137
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IMI plc .................................... 138
IMI plc Company financial statements  .................................................................. 145
Subsidiary undertakings  ......................................................................................... 152
Five year summary ................................................................................................... 154
Shareholder and general information ..................................................................... 156
  Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or the Listing Rules to 
explain a particular feature of the financial statements. The notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure 
to assist readers’ understanding and interpretation of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
Financial statements
TABLE OF CONTENTS 76 IMI plc
For the year ended 31 December 2015
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
 2015 2014
      Exceptional   Exceptional 
     Reported items Statutory Reported  items Statutory 
    Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    2.1 1,557  10  1,567  1,686  6  1,692 
Segmental operating profit    2.1 239.4   239.4  298.1   298.1 
Reversal of net economic hedge contract  losses/(gains)   2.2.1  7.6  7.6   3.9  3.9 
Restructuring costs    2.2.2 (2.1) (27.1) (29.2) (2.6) (8.6) (11.2)
Gains on special pension events    2.2.3  9.1  9.1   7.0  7.0 
Impairment losses    2.2.4  -  -   (40.8) (40.8)
Acquired intangible amortisation    2.2.4  (32.2) (32.2)  (19.6) (19.6)
(Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries    2.2.5 (0.4) (8.4) (8.8)  34.2  34.2 
Acquisition and disposal costs    2.2.6  -  -   (1.8) (1.8)
Operating profit     236.9  (51.0) 185.9  295.5  (25.7) 269.8 
Financial income    4.3 3.2  20.9  24.1  1.1  15.1  16.2 
Financial expense    4.3 (21.6) (25.9) (47.5) (15.4) (21.8) (37.2)
Net financial income/(expense) relating to defined  benefit pension schemes 4.5.3.3 0.2   0.2  (3.1)  (3.1)
Net financial expense     (18.2) (5.0) (23.2) (17.4) (6.7) (24.1)
Profit before tax     218.7  (56.0) 162.7  278.1  (32.4) 245.7 
Taxation    2.4.5 (48.1) 8.7  (39.4) (61.2) 8.3  (52.9)
Profit from continuing operations after tax    170.6  (47.3) 123.3  216.9  (24.1) 192.8 
Profit from discontinued operations after tax    2.5  6.7  6.7   478.5  478.5 
Total profit for the year     170.6  (40.6) 130.0  216.9  454.4  671.3 
Attributable to:          
  Owners of the parent       127.6    668.5 
  Non-controlling interests    4.8   2.4    2.8 
Profit for the year       130.0    671.3 
Earnings per share    2.3      
Basic - from profit for the year       47.2p   243.4p
Diluted - from profit for the year       46.8p   241.3p
Basic - from continuing operations       44.7p   69.2p
Diluted - from continuing operations        44.4p   68.6p
Basic - from adjusted profit for the year        62.2p   78.0p
Diluted - from adjusted profit for the year        61.7p   77.3p 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Results summary (on continuing operations and before exceptional items, 
see section 2.1.1)
Reported revenue decreased by 8% to £1,557m (2014: £1,686m). After 
adjusting for an adverse exchange rate impact of £72m and the contribution 
from acquisitions and disposals, organic revenue decreased 5%, reflecting 
difficult market conditions, particularly in Critical Engineering which was 
impacted by the lower oil price and a slowdown in capital spending globally.
Segmental operating profit of £239m (2014: £298m) fell by 20% on a reported 
basis and by 15% at constant exchange rates and excluding acquisitions 
and disposals. The segmental operating margin was 15.4% (2014: 17.7%). 
Operating profit was £186m (2014: £270m) after the deduction of exceptional 
items which are discussed in more detail below.
Continuing net interest costs on net borrowings were £18m (2014: £14m) and 
reflect the Group’s higher net debt following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther 
earlier in 2015. These were covered 15 times (2014: 23 times) by continuing 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 
of £275m (2014: £334m). The net pension financing income under IAS19 was 
£0.2m (2014: charge of £3m). This movement is as a result of our UK scheme 
being in surplus throughout 2015.
Profit before taxation and exceptional items was £219m (2014: £278m), a 
decrease on the previous year of 21%. 
The effective tax rate for the Group before exceptional items remained at 22% 
(2014: 22%). The total tax charge for the year on continuing operations was 
£48m (2014: £61m) and continuing profit after tax was £171m (2014: £217m). 
The Group seeks to manage its tax affairs within its core tax principles of 
compliance, fairness, value and transparency, in accordance with the  
Group’s Code of Conduct which is explained further in section 2.4.
Exceptional items
Operating profit was £186m (2014: £270m) after the deduction of exceptional 
items which are discussed below:
Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic 
hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together 
with the gains and losses on their settlements, are included in the segmental 
revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional 
item at the operating level reverses this treatment and the loss of £8m (2014: 
£4m) and records a charge within interest (see section 2.2.1). 
Restructuring costs
The restructuring costs treated as exceptional in 2015 of £27m (2014: £9m) 
are as a result of a number of significant restructuring projects across the 
Group, in particular within Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering. 
This restructuring is explained in more detail in section 2.2.2 on page 90. 
Restructuring costs of £2m (2014: £3m) that arose from normal recurring  
cost reduction exercises have not been treated as exceptional.
Pensions
During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure 
to defined benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, 
buy-outs and mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US which resulted in 
settlement gains of £5m. In addition, following the commencement of a significant 
restructuring exercise in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4m was realised. 
Impairment and acquired intangible amortisation
The Group recorded no exceptional impairment charges in 2015 (2014: £41m). 
Acquired intangible amortisation increased to £32m (2014: £20m) as a result of 
the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther.
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries
The Group disposed of Asterm in H1 resulting in a loss of £0.4m which is 
presented separately within reported operating profit, as based on its quantum, 
it did not meet our definition of an exceptional item. In H2 the Group made 
further disposals of IMI Scott Limited (‘Scott’), Zimmerman & Jansen South 
Africa (Pty.) Ltd (‘Z&J SA’) and the non-core elements of Nano Porous Solutions 
Limited (‘NPSL’). The H2 disposals resulted in losses of £8m (2014: profit of 
£34m) which are presented in the income statement as an exceptional item 
as, based on their quantum, they meet our definition of exceptional items. The 
losses on disposals are not disclosed within discontinued operations because 
none of these businesses represented a separate major line of business.
Acquisitions and disposal costs
There were no exceptional acquisition costs in 2015. Acquisition and disposal 
costs in 2014 comprised £2.2m of fees associated with the acquisition of Bopp 
& Reuther and a net release of £0.4m relating to deferred remuneration included 
within the post-employment contracts of the vendors for the AFP and NPSL 
acquisitions. The costs associated with the disposals in 2015 are included 
within the loss on disposal.
Financing costs
A net charge arose on the revaluation of financial instruments and derivatives 
under IAS39 of £5m (2014: £7m) principally reflecting movements in exchange 
rates during the year on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Taxation
An exceptional tax credit of £9m (2014: £8m) arose in connection with business 
restructuring and other exceptional costs.
Profit from continuing operations after tax and exceptional items
Profit after taxation and exceptional items was £123m (2014: £193m).
Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
The Board considers that a more meaningful indication of the underlying 
performance of the Group is provided by continuing earnings before exceptional 
items after tax. Details of this calculation are given in section 2.3 to the Group 
financial statements on page 91. Adjusted EPS from continuing operations was 
62.2p, a decrease of 20% on last year’s 78.0p. Statutory basic EPS was down 
81% to 47.2p (2014: 243.4p) and diluted EPS was 46.8p (2014: 241.3p), both 
decreasing largely as a result of the profit on disposal of the Retail Dispense 
businesses of £478m in the prior year.
Corporate costs
In 2014 and prior years corporate costs were allocated to each of the divisions 
to arrive at segmental operating profit. For our 2015 reporting we have 
separately disclosed the Group’s corporate costs in our segmental information. 
This change gives greater transparency of the underlying segmental operating 
profits for each division.
Exchange rates
The most important foreign currencies for the Group remain the euro and the 
US dollar and the relevant average rates of exchange for the consolidated 
income statement were:
2015 2014
Euro 1.38 1.24
US dollar 1.53 1.65
The movement in average exchange rates between 2014 and 2015 resulted 
in our reported 2015 segmental revenue and segmental operating profit each 
being 4% lower as the average euro rate was 11% weaker against sterling 
partially offset by the US dollar rate, which strengthened 7% against sterling.
If the average exchange rates for January 2016 of US$1.45 and €1.33 were 
projected for the full year and applied to our 2015 results, it is estimated 
that segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been 
approximately 3-4% higher. 78 IMI plc
For the year ended 31 December 2015
 2015 2014
       £m £m £m £m
Profit for the year        130.0   671.3 
Items reclassified to profit and loss in the year     
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) reclassified to income statement  on disposal of operations   2.0   (3.9) 
Realised gain on settlement of deal-contingent forward relating to  disposal proceeds reclassified  
to income statement       -   (11.2) 
Related tax effect on items reclassified to profit and loss      -   2.4  
          2.0   (12.7)
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss      
Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives     (11.0)  3.6  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge  settlements and funding revaluations  2.9   (14.7) 
Change in fair value on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds    -   (3.0) 
Fair value (loss)/gain on available for sale financial assets      (1.7)  1.1  
Related tax effect on items that may subsequently be reclassified  to profit and loss    (1.6)  1.0  
          (11.4)  (12.0)
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss      
Re-measurement gain on defined benefit plans      27.8   16.6  
Related taxation effect in the year        (5.6)  (2.2) 
Taxation in relation to restructure of UK Pension Fund      0.5   (6.6) 
Effect of taxation rate change on previously recognised items      (5.1)  -  
          17.6   7.8 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of taxation     8.2   (16.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation      138.2   654.4 
Attributable to:     
  Owners of the parent        135.8   651.6 
  Non-controlling interests        2.4   2.8 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation      138.2   654.4
COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE  
INCOME AND THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
Movements in shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2015 was £546m (2014: £509m). Movements 
in shareholders’ equity can be split into three categories: 
•   the profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of £128m (2014: 
£669m). This is discussed on the page opposite the income statement. 
•   other comprehensive income movements in the year increased shareholders’ 
equity by £8m (2014: £17m reduction). These are discussed below.
•   movements taken directly to equity in the year reduced shareholders’ equity  
by £99m (2014: £743m). These are discussed overleaf.
Other comprehensive income
When the Group makes unrealised gains or losses on assets and liabilities, 
instead of being recorded in the income statement, they are credited or 
charged to reserves and recorded in the statement of comprehensive income. 
In accordance with the amendment to IAS1, these items are allocated between 
those items that have been reclassified to the income statement, those that  
may be reclassified to the income statement and those items that will not 
subsequently be reclassified to the income statement. 
Any net investment hedge derivatives which have not settled by the year-end 
are marked to market on the balance sheet at the year-end and the movements 
are recorded in the hedging reserve. This movement is also included in other 
comprehensive income and in 2015, amounted to a loss of £10m (2014: income 
of £4m) including the related taxation effect. 
The Group’s foreign denominated net assets are translated into sterling using 
exchange rates prevailing at the year-end. To the extent that these differ from the 
rates used at the previous year-end to translate net assets at that date and from 
the average exchange rate used to translate foreign denominated income during 
the year, a difference on reserves arises, which is included in other comprehensive 
income, along with the settlement of net investment hedge derivatives and 
revaluations of foreign debt, which are used to protect the Group from this 
exposure. These items (including the related taxation effect) amounted to  
a loss of nil in 2015 (2014: loss of £13m).
Movements in available-for-sale assets, which are principally used to fund defined 
benefit obligations in the US, are also recorded in other comprehensive income and 
amounted to a loss of £1m (2014: gain of £1m) including the related taxation effect. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
For the year ended 31 December 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
   Share Capital    Total Non-  
  Share premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total 
  capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2014  85.3  171.8  7.9  19.0  16.7  300.2  600.9  46.6  647.5 
Profit for the year       668.5  668.5  2.8  671.3 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)     (8.3) (17.1) 8.5  (16.9)  (16.9)
Total comprehensive income/(expense)     (8.3) (17.1) 677.0  651.6  2.8  654.4 
Issue of share capital  0.1  1.8      1.9   1.9 
Issue of ‘B’ shares - capital option  151.9  (151.9)     -   - 
Issue of ‘C’ shares - income option  10.9  (10.9)     -   - 
Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares  (162.8)  162.8    (162.8) (162.8)  (162.8)
Cancellation of treasury shares  (3.7)  3.7     -   - 
Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares       (457.5) (457.5)  (457.5)
Dividends paid       (97.3) (97.3) (0.2) (97.5)
Share-based payments (net of tax)       3.2  3.2   3.2 
Shares acquired for:          
  employee share scheme trust       (30.7) (30.7)  (30.7)
Income earned by partnership         (4.4) (4.4)
As at 31 December 2014  81.7  10.8  174.4  10.7  (0.4) 232.1  509.3  44.8  554.1 
Changes in equity in 2015          
Profit for the year       127.6  127.6  2.4  130.0 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)     (10.1) 1.8  16.5  8.2   8.2 
Total comprehensive income/(expense)     (10.1) 1.8  144.1  135.8  2.4  138.2 
Issue of share capital  0.1  1.0      1.1   1.1 
Dividends paid       (102.5) (102.5) -  (102.5)
Share-based payments (net of tax)       0.1  0.1   0.1 
Shares issued by:           
  employee share scheme trust       2.3  2.3   2.3 
Income earned by partnership         (4.4) (4.4)
As at 31 December 2015  81.8  11.8  174.4  0.6  1.4  276.1  546.1  42.8  588.9 
COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE  
INCOME AND THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
Actuarial movements in the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are also 
recorded in other comprehensive income. These movements are explained in 
detail in section 4.5 on page 115. Together with the taxation effect, the gain in the 
year was £22m (2014: £14m).
Items recognised directly in equity
Movements in reserves which represent transactions with the shareholders of the 
Group are recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement or 
through other comprehensive income. 
0.2m (2014: 0.4m) shares were issued during the year, realising £1m (2014: £2m) 
in the share capital and share premium account. 
The 2014 final dividend of 24.0p (2014: 22.5p) per share and the 2015 interim 
dividend of 13.9p (2014: 13.6p) per share were paid during the year, which 
reduced equity by £103m (2014: £97m). 
The credit for share-based payments, which reverses the £1m (2014: £4m) 
charged through the income statement in the year, thereby deferring the reduction 
in reserves until such time as the options are exercised, is also recognised here, 
together with the reversal of the associated £1m tax credit (2014: £1m). 
The credit to reserves relating to the issue of shares by the employee trust to 
satisfy share options, net of amounts received from employees representing the 
price on exercise for those options was £2m (2014: charge of £31m), refer to 
section 4.6 for more information. 80 IMI plc
         2015 2014 
        Notes £m £m
Assets      
Intangible assets        3.2  457.2  367.7 
Property, plant and equipment        3.3  230.8  226.5 
Employee benefit assets        4.5  88.7  60.2 
Deferred tax assets        2.4.7 19.8  21.3 
Other receivables         4.6  6.0 
Total non-current assets         801.1  681.7 
Inventories        3.1.1 233.3  226.3 
Trade and other receivables        3.1.2 351.4  368.9 
Other current financial assets        4.4.6 2.8  10.5 
Current tax         10.4  14.9 
Investments        4.4.6 27.0  26.9 
Cash and cash equivalents        4.1  114.2  43.8 
Total current assets         739.1  691.3 
Total assets         1,540.2  1,373.0 
Liabilities   
Bank overdraft        4.1  (6.4) (23.0)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings        4.2  (54.1) (2.0)
Provisions        3.6  (25.1) (22.7)
Current tax         (44.6) (42.6)
Trade and other payables        3.1.3 (342.1) (333.9)
Other current financial liabilities        4.4.6 (8.9) (9.2)
Total current liabilities         (481.2) (433.4)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings        4.2  (290.6) (218.8)
Employee benefit obligations        4.5  (84.3) (94.9)
Provisions        3.6  (17.5) (16.4)
Deferred tax liabilities        2.4.7 (53.5) (27.2)
Other payables         (24.2) (28.2)
Total non-current liabilities         (470.1) (385.5)
Total liabilities         (951.3) (818.9)
Net assets         588.9  554.1 
Equity   
Share capital        4.6.1 81.8  81.7 
Share premium         11.8  10.8 
Other reserves         176.4  184.7 
Retained earnings         276.1  232.1 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent        546.1  509.3 
Non-controlling interests        4.8  42.8  44.8 
Total equity         588.9  554.1 
       
       
Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:    
Lord Smith of Kelvin  
Chairman
 
At 31 December 2015
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Net debt
Net debt at the year-end was £237m compared to £200m at the end of the 
previous year, largely reflecting the payment for the Bopp & Reuther acquisition 
offset by good operating cash delivery. The net debt is composed of a cash 
balance of £114m (2014: £44m), a bank overdraft of £6m (2014: £23m) and 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings of £345m (2014: £221m). 
The year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.9 times (2014: 0.6 times) based on 
continuing EBITDA before exceptional items. Following the drawdown of €150m 
during the year, at the end of 2015 the loan notes totalled £341m (2014: £218m), 
with a weighted average maturity of 4.6 years (2014: 3.4 years) and other loans 
including bank overdrafts totalled £10m (2014: £26m). Total committed bank  
loan facilities available to the Group at the year-end were £294m (2014: £272m), 
of which nil (2014: nil) was drawn.
Intangible assets
The value of the Group’s intangible assets increased to £457m at 31 December 
2015 (2014: £368m), a £118m increase in intangible assets arose in relation to 
the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, which comprised goodwill of £53m, customer 
relationships of £44m, order book of £9m, brand of £11m and software of £1m. 
Details of the acquisition accounting for Bopp & Reuther can be found in section 
3.4. Other additions to intangible assets were £20m (2014: £18m), including 
£14m of IT related capital expenditure, partly offset by the continuing amortisation 
charge, foreign exchange movements and disposals. 
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’)
The net book value of the Group’s PPE at 31 December 2015 was £231m (2014: 
£227m). Capital expenditure on PPE amounted to £51m (2014: £53m), with 
significant capital expenditure on our new manufacturing plant in South Korea 
and a new Chinese service centre in the Critical Engineering division. Including 
capitalised intangible assets, total capital expenditure was £71m (2014: £71m) 
and was 1.9 times (2014: 1.9 times) the depreciation and amortisation charge 
(excluding acquired intangible amortisation) for the year of £38m (2014: £38m). 
Working capital 
The reduction in the Group’ s trade and other receivables of £18m is due to favourable 
cash movements of £29m and foreign exchange movements of £6m, partially offset 
by an increase of £17m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year.
The Group’s inventory increased by £7m due to an increase of £7m following the 
acquisitions and disposals in the year and a further increase of £4m due to cash 
movements. These increases were partially offset by a £4m reduction due to 
foreign exchange movements. 
The Group’s trade and other payables increased by £4m due to an increase of 
£11m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year and movements in 
accruals of £4m. These increases were partially offset by cash movements of 
£7m and foreign exchange movements of £4m.
The working capital cash movements during the year are discussed in more  
detail in the narrative opposite the consolidated cash flow statement.
Taxation
The current tax asset fell by £5m to £10m (2014: £15m), as it was used to offset 
current year tax payments (which is discussed further at 2.4.3). Deferred tax 
liabilities increased by £27m during the year to £54m (2014: £27m). This largely 
arose as a result of the recognition of deferred tax on certain intangible assets 
relating to the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, together with the deferred tax taken 
to the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the pension funds.  
More analysis of the deferred tax movement in the year is shown in section 2.4.7.
Pensions
The Group has 63 (2014: 64) defined benefit obligations in existence as at 
31 December 2015. The Group recognises there is a funding and investment 
risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements and seeks to continue its 
programme of closing overseas defined benefit plans where possible and 
providing in their place appropriate defined contribution arrangements.
The net surplus for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 was £4m 
(2014: £35m net liability). The UK funds surplus was £89m as at 31 December 
2015 (2014: £60m) and constituted 88% (2014: 84%) of the total defined benefit 
liabilities and 95% (2014: 90%) of the total defined benefit assets. The improvement 
in the UK funds in 2015 principally arose from actuarial gains of £26m.
The deficit in the overseas funds as at 31 December 2015 was £84m (2014: 
£95m), including the impact of £4m from the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther. This 
reduction in the overseas deficit is as a result of a number of liability management 
exercises that were undertaken during the year, in particular in Switzerland and 
the United States.
Details of movements in actuarial assumptions are discussed in section 4.5.
Foreign exchange and interest rate risk
Further information on how the Group manages its exposure to these financial 
risks is shown in section 4.4 of the financial statements on page 106. The most 
important foreign currencies for the Group remain the euro and the US dollar and 
the relevant closing rates of exchange for the balance sheet were:
As at 31 December
2015 2014
Euro 1.36 1.29
US dollar 1.47 1.56
Return on capital employed 
Post tax return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) from continuing operations was 
14.3% compared to 18.3% in 2014. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 24.5p 
(2014: 24.0p) per share, an increase of 2.1% over the 2014 final dividend.  
This makes the total dividend for 2015 of 38.4p (2014: 37.6p). The cost of the 
final dividend is expected to be £66m (2014: £65m), leading to a total dividend 
cost of £104m (2014: £102m) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Dividend cover based on reported earnings for the continuing businesses is 
1.6 times (2014: 2.1 times). As detailed in note C9 of the Company financial 
statements on page 149, all of the retained earnings at both 31 December 2015 
and 31 December 2014 are considered to be distributable reserves.
Whilst the Group does not have a formal dividend policy or payout ratio, the 
Group’s aim is to continue with its progressive dividend policy, which typically 
increases at a steady rate for both the interim and final dividend payments, with 
an aim that the dividend should, through the cycle, be covered by at least two 
times reported earnings. In making its dividend recommendations, the Board 
considers the levels of cash and debt within the Group, forecasted operating 
and capital cash flow requirements and the availability of distributable reserves. 
The Board also monitors the Group’s dividend cover based on reported 
earnings for the continuing business. For more details refer to section 4.4.4.4.
Share price and shareholder return
The share price at 31 December 2015 was £8.62 (2014: £12.63) and the 
average for the year was £11.34 (2014: £14.02) representing a decrease  
of 32% and 19% respectively. Based on the 2015 average share price,  
the proposed total dividend of 38.4p represents a yield of 3.4%. 82 IMI plc
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit for the year from continuing operations        185.9  269.8 
Operating profit for the year from discontinued operations       0.9  1.0 
Adjustments for:  
  Depreciation and amortisation         70.4  57.6 
  Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets       6.9  43.5 
  Loss/(gain) on disposal of subsidiaries         8.8  (34.2)
  Gain on special pension events         (9.1) (7.0)
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment        (6.9) 1.2 
Equity-settled share-based payment expense        1.1  4.4 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories         (3.5) 5.8 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables        29.2  (37.7)
Decrease in trade and other payables         (7.3) (18.9)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits        5.6  (13.7)
Cash generated from the operations         282.0  271.8 
Income taxes paid         (36.2) (67.2)
Cash generated from the operations after tax        245.8  204.6 
Additional pension scheme funding - UK and overseas        (2.9) (87.0)
Net cash from operating activities         242.9  117.6 
Cash flows from investing activities  
Interest received         3.2  1.1 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment         12.0  1.1 
Purchase of investments         (0.8) (3.6)
Settlement of transactional derivatives         (5.0) (0.2)
Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet        29.0  36.7 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries net of cash         (106.2) - 
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and non-acquired intangibles      (70.6) (70.8)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries net of cash        0.6  696.3 
Net cash from investing activities         (137.8) 660.6 
Cash flows from financing activities  
Interest paid         (21.6) (15.4)
Payment to non-controlling interest         (4.4) (4.4)
Shares issued by/(acquired for) employee share scheme trust       2.3  (30.7)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes       1.1  1.9 
Net drawdown/(repayment) of borrowings         107.9  (80.7)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders and non-controlling interest       (102.5) (97.5)
Return of cash to equity shareholders         -  (620.3)
Net cash from financing activities         (17.2) (847.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents        87.9  (68.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year        20.8  90.3 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        (0.9) (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year*        107.8  20.8 
*  Net of bank overdrafts of £6.4m (2014: £23.0m).
     
Notes to the cash flow appear in section 4.1. 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED  
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Reconciliation of EBITDA to movement in net debt
The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is shown on the opposite 
page, which reconciles the operating profit for the year to the change in cash 
and overdrafts in the balance sheet as required for financial reporting purposes. 
However, because the Group’s debt financing also includes other interest-
bearing liabilities, it is more insightful to consider the effect of the transactions 
in the year on the net debt in the balance sheet. Accordingly, a reconciliation 
between EBITDA (after exceptional items) and net debt is shown in the column 
opposite, upon which this section provides commentary. 
Operating cash flow
The operating cash flow from continuing operations was £222m (2014: £205m). 
This represents a conversion rate of total Group segmental operating profit after 
restructuring costs of £210m (2014: £287m) into operating cash flow of 106% 
(2014: 71%). 
Net working capital balances decreased by £18m (2014: £51m increase) during 
the year. Inventory increased by £4m (2014: £6m decrease) due to an increase 
in inventory of £13m within Critical Engineering reflecting the timing of orders and 
customer shipments, partially offset by inventory reductions in Precision Engineering 
and Hydronic Engineering of £6m and £3m respectively as a result of lean initiatives. 
The Group’ s receivables decreased by £29m (2014: £38m increase) as a result  
of both a reduction in revenue and increased efforts across the Group to improve 
the collection of receivables. Payables decreased by £7m (2014: £19m) due to  
the timing of payments to suppliers across each of the divisions.
Cash spent on property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired 
intangibles in the year was £71m (2014: £71m) which was equivalent to  
1.9 times (2014: 1.9 times) depreciation and amortisation thereon. 
Continuing research and development spend including capitalised intangible 
development costs of £5m (2014: £6m) totalled £52m (2014: £52m). 
In 2015 the Group paid tax of £36m (2014: £67m) which was 75% (2014: 
109%) of the reported tax charge for the year. This reflects the timing of 
estimated tax payments on account and is discussed in more detail in  
section 2.4. 
In 2015 there was a £29m cash inflow (2014: £37m) following the settlement  
of currency derivatives hedging the balance sheet.
After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow generated from operations 
was £192m (2014: £154m).
Free cash flow before corporate activity
As noted in section 4.5, following the special pension events in Switzerland  
and the US, £2.9m of additional pension contributions were made. Free cash 
flow before corporate activity was £189m (2014: £67m).
Net cash outflow (excluding debt movements)
Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £103m (2014: £98m) and there was 
a cash inflow of £3m (2014: £29m outflow) for net share issues to satisfy 
employee share options. There was a cash outflow of £109m (excluding  
£3m net cash acquired) in relation to the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther.
The total net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) was £22m (2014:  
inflow of £41m).
Closing net debt
The opening net debt was £200m (2014: £199m). There were exchange rate 
losses of £8m (2014: £12m), principally on US dollar-denominated borrowings. 
After the net cash outflow in the year of £22m (2014: £41m inflow), net 
borrowings acquired of £6m and net cash disposed of £1m, closing net  
debt was £237m (2014: £200m).
 Movement in Net Debt
2015
£m
2014
£m
EBITDA* from continuing operations 263.2 370.9
Working capital movements 18.4 (50.8)
Capital and development expenditure (70.6) (70.8)
Loss/(gain) on disposal of subsidiaries 8.8 (34.2)
Gain on special pension events (9.1) (7.0)
Other 11.0 (3.0)
Operating cash flow from continuing operations 221.7 205.1
EBITDA from discontinued operations 0.9 1.0
Other - (7.6)
Operating cash flow from discontinued operations 0.9 (6.6)
Operating cash flow** 222.6 198.5
Tax paid (36.2) (67.2)
Interest/derivatives 5.6 22.2
Cash generation 192.0 153.5
Additional pension scheme funding - UK - (70.0)
Additional pension scheme funding - overseas (2.9) (17.0)
Free cash flow before corporate activity 189.1 66.5
Acquisitions (before net cash acquired) (109.2) -
Dividends paid to equity shareholders and  
non-controlling interest (102.5) (97.5)
Return of cash - (620.3)
Disposal of subsidiaries 1.4 725.3
Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4)
Net issue/(purchase) of own shares 3.4 (28.8)
Net cash flow (excluding debt movements) (22.2) 40.8
Opening net debt (200.0) (199.4)
Net cash disposed (0.8) (29.0)
Net debt acquired (5.6) -
Foreign exchange translation (8.3) (12.4)
Closing net debt (236.9) (200.0)
*   Earnings before interest (£23m), tax (£39m), depreciation (£33m), 
amortisation (£38m) and impairment (£7m).
**  Operating cash flow is the cash generated from the operations shown in the 
consolidated statement of cash flows less cash spent acquiring property, 
plant and equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets and investments; 
plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and the 
sale of investments. 84 IMI plc
1.1 
Introduction
IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.  
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company financial 
statements present information about the Company as a separate entity 
and not about the Group. The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law (‘IFRSs’). The Company has elected to 
prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with FRS 101 
and these are presented on pages 145 to 151. The financial statements were 
approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016. 
1.2 
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (which is the 
Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, 
except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are 
prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and 
liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments; available-
for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged 
items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.  
Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of  
their carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell.
The policies described in this section and in the accompanying sections have 
been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these 
consolidated financial statements except as discussed below. Refer to  
section 5.4 for the Group’s significant accounting policies.
i)  New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted  
by the Group during 2015
The following amended standards were adopted in these financial statements 
during 2015, none of which had any impact.
• IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payment’
• IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’
• IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’
• IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’
• IAS16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’
• IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits’
• IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’
• IAS38 ‘Intangible Assets’
ii)  Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and are not yet endorsed by the EU
The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new accounting standards and 
amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements. 
The following new standards in particular are expected to have an impact on 
the Group although the Group is yet to assess the full impact.
• IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (2014)
A finalised version of IFRS9 was issued in July 2014, incorporating requirements 
for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting  
and de-recognition. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS9.  
The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018.
• IFRS15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (2015)
IFRS15 provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all 
contracts with customers. Guidance is provided on topics such as the point 
at which revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs of 
fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various related matters. New disclosures 
about revenue are also introduced. The Group is still assessing IFRS15’s full 
impact, following the deferral of the effective date from 2017 to 2018. Early 
indications suggest our Critical Engineering business will be most likely to be 
impacted by any changes. The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018.
• IFRS16 ‘Leases’ (2015)
IFRS16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to 
recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months 
or less or the underlying asset has a low value. The Group is yet to assess 
IFRS16’s full impact, however a significant portion of leases currently accounted 
for as operating leases (therefore off balance sheet) would be expected to be 
recognised as assets with a corresponding liability under IFRS16. The standard 
will be adopted from 1 January 2019.
SECTION 1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
What you will find in this section 
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures 
explaining the Group’s results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings  
per share.
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
2.1  
Segmental information
  Reported revenues and profits for the Group are stated before exceptional items as presented in the consolidated income statement.
  Organic revenue growth and operating profit are the two short-term key performance indicators or measures that reflect the way the performance of the  
Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee. In this section the key constituents of these two KPI’s, being the Group’s revenues and  
segmental operating profits, are analysed by reference to the performance and activities of the Group’s segments and their operating costs. 
  Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, disposals and exchange  
rate movements. 
2.1.1  
Segmental information
Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting format 
reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures and represents the information that was presented to the chief operating decision-maker, being 
the Executive Committee. As described on page 2, each of the Group’s three divisions has a number of key brands across its main markets and operational 
locations. For the purposes of reportable segmental information, operating segments are aggregated into the Group’s three divisions, as the nature of the  
products, production processes and types of customer are similar within each division. Inter-segment revenue is insignificant. 
Continuing operations
IMI Critical Engineering
IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of critical flow control 
solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, 
cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
IMI Precision Engineering
IMI Precision Engineering specialises in developing motion and fluid control 
technologies for applications where precision, speed and reliability are essential.
IMI Hydronic Engineering
IMI Hydronic Engineering designs and manufactures technologies which deliver 
optional and energy efficient heating and cooling systems to the residential and 
commercial building sectors. 
Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the 
profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items and other 
restructuring costs (see section 2.2).
Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide 
economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and 
values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility  
in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating profits are therefore 
charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. In accordance with 
IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge 
accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental revenue and 
profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes  
of the consolidated income statement.
Corporate costs
In 2014 and prior years corporate costs were allocated to each of the divisions 
to arrive at segmental operating profit. Whilst our corporate costs do not meet 
the definition of an operating segment under IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’, for 
2015 reporting we have separately disclosed corporate costs before arriving  
at segmental operating profit so that reporting is consistent with the format  
that has been used for review by the chief operating decision maker from  
1 January 2015. As required by IFRS8, comparative amounts have been 
restated to reflect this change. This change gives greater transparency of  
the underlying segmental operating profits for each division.
Definitions
References to segmental revenue, segmental operating profit and segmental 
operating margins, unless otherwise stated, relate to amounts on a reported 
basis before exceptional items as noted on the face of the consolidated  
income statement. 
References to organic growth exclude the impact of exchange rate translation 
and acquisitions or disposals that are included in reported figures. The organic 
growth is derived from excluding any contribution from acquired businesses 
to revenue or profit in the current period until the first anniversary of their 
acquisition. It also excludes the contribution to revenue or profit in both the 
current and comparative period from any business that has been disposed.  
This organic revenue or profit will then be compared to the organic revenue  
or profit for the prior period after their re-translation at the current period 
average exchange rates to provide the organic growth rate. 86 IMI plc
The following table illustrates how the results for the segments reconcile to the overall results reported in the income statement.
  Revenue Operating profit Operating margin
        2014  2014 
     2015 2014 2015 restated* 2015 restated* 
     £m £m £m £m % %
Continuing operations            
  IMI Critical Engineering      631   692  93.1  131.4  14.8% 19.0%
  IMI Precision Engineering      662   710  117.7  138.5  17.8% 19.5%
  IMI Hydronic Engineering      264   284  51.8  56.8  19.6% 20.0%
  Corporate costs       (23.2) (28.6)  
Total segmental revenue/segmental operating profit and margin    1,557   1,686   239.4  298.1  15.4% 17.7%
Restructuring costs (non-exceptional)       (2.1) (2.6)  
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries (non-exceptional)      (0.4) -   
Total segmental revenue/operating profit and margin (before exceptional items)   1,557   1,686   236.9  295.5  15.2% 17.5%
Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains)     10   6  7.6  3.9   
Restructuring costs       (27.1) (8.6)  
Gains on special pension events       9.1   7.0   
Impairment losses       -   (40.8)  
Acquired intangible amortisation       (32.2) (19.6)  
(Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries       (8.4)  34.2   
Acquisition and disposal costs        -  (1.8)  
Statutory revenue/operating profit      1,567   1,692   185.9   269.8   
Net financial expense       (23.2) (24.1)  
Profit before tax from continuing operations      162.7  245.7
*Restatement reflects the separate disclosure of corporate costs.
The following table illustrates how revenue and operating profit have been impacted by movements in foreign exchange, acquisitions and disposals.
 Year ended 31 December 2015  Year ended 31 December 2014 
        Movement 
  As Acquisitions/  Reported Organic As in foreign Acquisitions/  
  reported disposals Organic growth (%) growth (%) reported exchange disposals Organic
Segmental revenue        
  IMI Critical Engineering  631  (52) 579  -9% -10% 692  (26) (23) 643
  IMI Precision Engineering  662  -  662  -7% -3% 710  (23) (1) 686
  IMI Hydronic Engineering  264  -  264  -7% 2% 284  (23) (2) 259 
Total  1,557  (52)  1,505  -8% -5%  1,686  (72) (26)  1,588
Segmental operating profit          
  IMI Critical Engineering  93.1  (1.2) 91.9  -29% -24% 131.4  (5.4) (5.7) 120.3
  IMI Precision Engineering  117.7   -  117.7  -15% -14% 138.5  (3.4) 1.7  136.8
  IMI Hydronic Engineering  51.8   -  51.8  -9% -1% 56.8  (4.3) (0.1) 52.4
  Corporate costs  (23.2)  -  (23.2)   (28.6)  -   -  (28.6)
Total   239.4  (1.2)  238.2  -20% -15% 298.1  (13.1) (4.1)  280.9
Segmental operating profit margin (%)  15.4%  15.8%   17.7%   17.7%
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Continued 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The following table illustrates how the segmental assets and liabilities reconcile to the overall total assets and liabilities reported in the balance sheet.
  Assets Liabilities
       2015 2014 2015 2014 
       £m £m £m £m
IMI Critical Engineering       682.1  590.2  196.9  183.6 
IMI Precision Engineering       419.2  430.6  90.7  91.9 
IMI Hydronic Engineering       165.6  149.7  53.7  45.8 
Total segmental assets/liabilities        1,266.9   1,170.5  341.3  321.3 
Corporate items       9.1  17.4  61.5  71.4 
Employee benefits       88.7  60.2  84.3  94.9 
Investments       27.0  26.9  -  - 
Net debt items       114.2  43.8  351.1  243.8 
Net taxation and others       34.3  54.2  113.1  87.5 
Total assets and liabilities in Group balance sheet       1,540.2   1,373.0   951.3   818.9 
The following table includes other information to show how certain costs are allocated between the segments of the Group.
 Restructuring Capital  
 costs* Expenditure Amortisation** Depreciation
   2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
IMI Critical Engineering   13.4  5.1  22.4  27.0  33.2  18.8  11.7  10.6 
IMI Precision Engineering   13.6  5.8  30.4  25.6  3.0  4.3  14.1  15.3 
IMI Hydronic Engineering   2.2  0.3  17.2  12.7  1.3  1.5  6.3  6.6 
     29.2  11.2  70.0  65.3  37.5  24.6  32.1  32.5 
Corporate costs   -   -  0.6  5.5  -   -  0.8  0.5 
Total    29.2  11.2  70.6  70.8  37.5  24.6  32.9  33.0 
* Restructuring costs include both exceptional and non-exceptional.
**  The amortisation figures above includes the amortisation of acquired intangibles. £30.8m (2014: £17.2m) is included in respect of Critical Engineering,  
the increase being due to the acquisition of Bopp and Reuther in the year, £1.2m (2014: £2.1m) is included in respect of Precision Engineering and  
£0.2m (2014: £0.3m) is included in respect of Hydronic Engineering.  88 IMI plc
The following table shows a geographical analysis of the location of the Group’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
UK          77.5  77.0 
Germany         223.2  130.9 
Rest of Europe         205.3  208.2 
USA         129.4  123.6 
Asia Pacific         39.0  35.4 
Rest of World         13.6  19.1 
Total          688.0  594.2 
Continuing revenue by destination (2014) Continuing revenue by destination (2015)
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Continued
Emerging 
Markets
33%
North America
21%
Western Europe
36%
Rest of the
World
4%
UK
6%
The following table shows a geographical analysis of how the Group’s revenue is derived by destination.
         2015 2014 
         Revenue Revenue 
         £m £m
UK          90  98 
Germany         219  235 
Other Western Europe         344  409 
Western Europe         563  644 
USA         311  300 
Canada         23  18 
North America         334  318 
Emerging Markets         505  544 
Rest of World         65  82 
Total segmental revenue         1,557  1,686 
Reversal of economic hedge contract losses         10   6 
Total         1,567  1,692
Emerging 
Markets
32%
North America
19%
Western Europe
38%
Rest of the
World
5%
UK
6% 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2.1.2  
Operating costs by function
  The following table is included to show how much of the operating costs 
deducted from revenue to arrive at the Group’s post-exceptional operating 
profit, relate to cost of sales, selling and distribution costs, administrative 
expenses and exceptional items.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Segmental revenue 1,557.0 1,686.0 
Cost of sales (866.7) (919.6)
Segmental gross profit 690.3 766.4 
Selling and distribution costs (199.9) (211.5)
Administrative expenses (251.0) (256.8)
Loss on disposal (0.4) - 
Restructuring costs (2.1) (2.6)
Operating profit before exceptional items 236.9 295.5 
Exceptional items* (51.0) (25.7)
Operating profit 185.9 269.8 
* The exceptional costs are analysed in detail in section 2.2. 
2.1.3  
Specific elements of operating costs
  Certain specific items of operating expenses are disclosed to provide the 
reader of financial statements with more information regarding these costs. 
This section provides this analysis. 
2.1.3.1 Employee information
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 
2015 2014
IMI Critical Engineering 4,236 3,971 
IMI Precision Engineering 5,482 5,748 
IMI Hydronic Engineering 1,862 1,878 
Corporate 131 151 
Total Group 11,711 11,748 
The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 427.9 436.7 
Share based payments 1.1 4.4 
Social security costs 77.0 84.3 
Pension costs* 2.2 10.1 
Total 508.2 535.5 
*  In 2015, pension costs include the gains on special pension events which are 
disclosed as exceptional items, see section 4.5.3.3. The 2014 comparatives 
include a gain of £3.5m in relation to our Swedish pension scheme. The £3.5m 
gain arising from the split of the UK Funds was excluded as this was in respect 
of former employees. 
The aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was 
£2.9m (2014: £10.6m). The remuneration, as defined in the Companies Act 
2006 Schedule 5, for the executive directors’ comprises fixed and annual 
variable pay as set out in the table on page 62 of the Remuneration Report. 
For details of the non-executive directors’ remuneration please refer to page 
70 of the Remuneration Report. In addition, in 2014 former executive director 
M J Lamb received remuneration of £0.5m and former non-executive director 
P Bentley received remuneration of £0.1m. These comparatives are required 
under IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ but are not required to be 
disclosed in the single figure table in the Remuneration Report.
2.1.3.2 Operating lease charges and operating lease commitments
  The Group enters into leases for property, plant and equipment assets  
when doing so represents a more cost-effective or lower risk option than 
purchasing them. This leads to an income statement charge for the year  
and future commitments for the Group in respect of these leases.
Continuing operating costs include a charge of £14.7m (2014: £14.4m)  
relating to the lease of properties and a charge of £7.7m (2014: £7.8m)  
relating to the lease of plant and machinery. The continuing commitments  
in respect of non-cancellable operating leases in place are shown in the 
following table by time period: 
  2015 2014
    Land and  Land and 
    buildings Others buildings Others 
    £m £m £m £m
Within one year 13.7  6.6  13.4  7.5 
In the second to fifth year 39.4  8.6  41.3  10.8 
After five years 20.7  -  35.0  1.5 
    73.8  15.2  89.7  19.8 
2.1.3.3 Research and development expenditure
The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly 
to the income statement was £46.7m (2014: £45.4m). In addition, amortisation 
of capitalised intangible development costs amounted to £2.5m (2014: £2.3m) 
and across the Group a further £5.3m (2014: £6.4m) was capitalised.
2.1.3.4 Exchange gains on operating activities net of  
hedging arrangements
The transactional foreign exchange losses in the Group were £1.3m (2014: £1.8m).
2.1.3.5 Audit Fees
The Group engages its auditor, EY, to perform assignments in addition to their 
statutory audit duties where their expertise, experience and knowledge of the 
Group should enable them to perform these assignments more efficiently than 
other similar service providers. 
The Group’ s policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report  
on page 55. Fees earned by EY and its associates during the year are set out below: 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fees earned by the Company’s auditor for the audit 
of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries,  
pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.5 
Tax compliance services 0.1 0.3 
Other assurance services 0.1 -
Total 2.9 3.0 90 IMI plc
2.2 
Exceptional items
  The Group uses the exceptional items category in the income statement to 
classify separately items of both income and expense which are sufficiently 
large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements 
to gain a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
The following items are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements.
2.2.1 
Reversal of net economic hedge contract 
losses/gains 
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic 
hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together 
with the gains and losses on their settlement, are included in the segmental 
revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional 
items at the operating level reverse this treatment. The financing exceptional 
items reflect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the 
financial institutions with whom they were transacted. The former comprised 
a reversal of a loss of £7.6m (2014: reversal of a loss of £3.9m) and the latter 
amounted to a loss of £5.0m (2014: loss of £6.7m). 
2.2.2 
Restructuring costs
The restructuring costs treated as exceptional in 2015 of £27.1m (2014: £8.6m) are 
as a result of a number of significant restructuring projects across the Group. These 
include £9.6m relating to a large European restructuring exercise across each of 
the divisions and £9.3m in relation to the restructuring of our Switzerland business, 
that both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operate from. Our Critical 
Engineering business in Switzerland will be merged with Bopp & Reuther 
along with our Canadian Nuclear business which is also being closed at a cost of 
£1.7m. £3.6m was incurred in relation to the closure of two of our Petrochemical 
sites in Italy and Germany, with further costs expected in 2016. As part of Critical 
Engineering’ s localisation plan in China, £1.1m of restructuring costs were incurred. 
Included within the costs above are £6.9m of impairment charges against property, 
plant and equipment directly resulting from these significant restructuring projects. 
Exceptional restructuring costs in 2014 related to the closure of IMI 
Components and the IMI Precision Engineering UK factory move (£8.6m). 
Further costs of £1.8m were incurred associated with these restructuring 
exercises in 2015. 
Other restructuring costs of £2.1m (2014: £2.6m) are not included in the 
measure of segment operating profit reported to the Executive Committee. 
These costs have been charged below segmental operating profit and included  
in reported operating profit as, based on their quantum, they do not meet  
our definition of exceptional items.
2.2.3 
Gains on special pension events
During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure to defined 
benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, buy-outs and 
mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US. These exercises resulted in settlement 
gains of £4.9m. Following the commencement of a restructuring exercise in 
Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m was realised. Gains on special pension 
events in the UK and Sweden of £7.0m were recognised in 2014. 
2.2.4 
Impairment losses and acquired  
intangible amortisation
As reported on page 98, following completion of the Group’s annual impairment 
review, no impairment charge has been recognised in 2015 against goodwill 
or intangible assets (2014: £40.8m). As described in 2.2.2, directly resulting 
from a number of significant restructuring projects was £6.9m of impairment of 
property, plant and equipment. An analysis by segment of acquired intangible 
amortisation is included in section 2.1.1.
2.2.5 
Losses on disposal of subsidiaries
Losses on the disposal of Scott, Z&J SA and part of our NPSL business are 
discussed in section 3.5.
2.2.6 
Acquisition and disposal costs 
There were no exceptional acquisition and disposal costs in 2015. Acquisition 
and disposal costs in 2014 comprised £2.2m of fees associated with the 
acquisition of Bopp & Reuther and a net release of £0.4m relating to deferred 
remuneration included within the post-employment contracts of the vendors  
for the AFP and NPSL acquisitions. 
2.2.7 
Taxation 
The tax effects of the above items are included in the exceptional column  
of the income statement.
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Continued 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
         2015 2014 
        Key million million
Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share     A 270.6  274.6 
Dilutive effect of employee share options         1.9  2.4 
Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share     B 272.5  277.0 
          Key £m  £m 
Profit for the year         130.0  671.3 
Non-controlling interests         (2.4) (2.8)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent      C 127.6  668.5 
Profits from discontinued operations, net of tax        (6.7) (478.5)
Continuing profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent      D 120.9  190.0 
Total exceptional charges included in profit before tax        56.0  32.4 
Total exceptional credits included in taxation        (8.7) (8.3)
Earnings for adjusted EPS        E 168.2  214.1 
           Key 2015  2014 
EPS measures    
Basic EPS         C/A 47.2p 243.4p
Diluted EPS         C/B 46.8p 241.3p
Basic continuing EPS         D/A 44.7p 69.2p
Diluted continuing EPS         D/B 44.4p 68.6p
Adjusted EPS measures   
Adjusted basic continuing EPS         E/A 62.2p 78.0p
Adjusted diluted continuing EPS         E/B 61.7p 77.3p 
       
The reduction in the weighted average number of shares is primarily as a result of the 7 for 8 share consolidation on 17 February 2014. 
Discontinued earnings per share
Basic discontinued earnings per share were 2.5p (2014: 174.2p). Diluted discontinued earnings per share were 2.4p (2014: 172.7p).
2.3 
Earnings per ordinary share
  Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share (excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust or by the Company). 
Basic EPS measures are calculated as the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the year. Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all outstanding share options priced below the market price, in arriving at the number of 
shares used in its calculation. 
  Both of these measures are also presented on an adjusted basis, to remove the effects of exceptional items, being items of both income and expense which are 
sufficiently large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements to get a better understanding of the underlying performance of the 
Group. The note below demonstrates how this calculation has been performed.  92 IMI plc
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Continued
2.4 
Taxation
   IMI operates through subsidiary companies all around the world that pay many 
different taxes such as corporate income taxes, VAT , payroll withholdings, social 
security contributions, customs import and excise duties. This note aggregates 
only those corporate income taxes that are or will be levied on the individual 
profits of IMI plc and its subsidiary companies for periods leading up to and 
including the balance sheet date. The profits of each company are subject to 
certain adjustments as specified by applicable tax laws in each country to arrive 
at the tax liability that is expected to result on their tax returns. Where these 
adjustments have future tax impact then deferred taxes may also be recorded.
2.4.1 
Tax governance, risk and strategy
IMI recognises its corporate responsibility to ensure that all businesses within 
the IMI group follow responsible tax practices. Accordingly, the IMI Tax Policy 
sets the core principles of compliance, fairness, value and transparency for the 
management of the Group’s tax affairs. This Policy has been approved by the 
Board, fully communicated to subsidiary businesses and is regularly reviewed 
to ensure responsible business practices across the Group are maintained. A 
robust tax governance framework has also been established under which the 
Executive Committee and the IMI Board are appraised on a timely basis of any 
material or significant tax matters, so that appropriate action can be effected.
IMI seeks to manage its taxation obligations worldwide in compliance with all 
applicable tax laws and regulations, as well as fully in line with the Group’s Code 
of Conduct. Accordingly, the tax contribution by the individual businesses is 
monitored and processes installed such that corporate tax returns should be 
accurately filed with the tax authorities around the world and taxes paid on time. 
In particular, IMI aims to build positive working relationships with tax authorities 
by co-operating in a constructive, open and timely manner. IMI seeks to disclose 
its tax affairs in its published accounts and taxation returns fully in accordance 
with the applicable standards and, where appropriate, will supplement its tax 
disclosures with further information to better inform, and to be transparent to, its 
stakeholders. As tax laws are often complex, there will be areas of differing legal 
interpretation. Where this occurs, IMI seeks to engage in proactive discussion with 
the fiscal authorities to obtain early resolution and seek to remove uncertainty and 
controversy. T ax risks are regularly assessed for all companies within the Group, 
promptly addressed and reported so that they may be appropriately provided  
and disclosed in the relevant accounts and tax returns. 
IMI seeks to record its profits across the subsidiary companies around the world on 
an arm’s length basis in accordance with internationally accepted best practices, 
recognising the relative contributions of people, assets, intellectual property and 
risks borne by the various businesses.
IMI manages the impact of taxation on its businesses in a responsible manner by only 
adopting legitimate, commercial and generally acceptable positions. In particular, IMI 
seeks to follow not only the law itself but the intention of the local laws where this can 
reasonably be ascertained. As a UK Headquartered group, IMI’ s profits are ultimately 
subject to UK taxation, although as the Group pays significant taxes overseas, the 
overall effective tax rate for the Group is marginally above the UK statutory tax rate. 
2.4.2  
UK corporation tax
The average weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK for the 2015 calendar 
year was 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). Changes to the rate of UK corporation tax 
were proposed in the budget of 8 July 2015 to reduce the rate to 19% from  
1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. These were substantively enacted 
on 26 October 2015. UK deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been 
calculated using a rate of 18% (2014: 20%), on the basis that no material items 
are forecast to reverse prior to 1 April 2020.
2.4.3  
Tax payments
During the year, the Group made payments of corporate income tax of £36.2m 
(2014: £67.2m), principally as follows:
Jurisdiction of Companies Making Corporate Income Tax Payments:
There is normally an element of volatility in the annual payments of corporate 
income taxes due to the timing of assessments, acquisitions and disposals, 
exceptional items and payments on account in the many countries in which 
the Group operates. In particular the level of payments made during 2015 was 
reduced compared to 2014 as the Group recovered certain tax prepayments that 
had built up during 2014. In addition, the 2014 payments included a one-off tax 
payment arising from restructuring of the UK defined benefit pension schemes, 
which was recognised through other comprehensive income.
The Group makes substantial other tax payments relating to employment, 
consumption, procurement and investment to local authorities around the world.
2.4.4  
Recognised in the income statement
This section sets out the current and deferred tax charges, which together 
comprise the total tax charge in the income statement.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current tax charge  
Current tax charge 34.6 46.3 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.3 (3.4)
 37.9 42.9 
Deferred taxation   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 12.5 
Total income tax charge 38.0 55.4 
Japan £6.9m
Switzerland £6.6m
UK £6.5m
Sweden £5.2m
Other £12.5m
Italy £7.8m
Germany £11.3m
US £10.4m
Germany £6.3m
Other £12.3m
Switzerland £4.7m
UK £1.1m
Sweden £0.8m
US £6.9m
Italy £3.7m
Japan £0.4m
2015 £36.2m
2014 £67.2m 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2.4.5 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
As IMI’s head office and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group references its effective tax rate to the UK corporation tax rate, despite only a small proportion 
of the Group’s business being in the UK. Therefore, the following tax reconciliation applies the UK corporation tax rate for the year to profit before tax, both before and 
after exceptional items. This resulting tax charge is reconciled to the actual tax charge for the Group, by taking account of specific tax adjustments as follows: 
 2015 2014
     Before Exceptional  Before Exceptional 
     exceptionals items Total exceptionals  items Total 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax from continuing operations    218.7  (56.0) 162.7  278.1  (32.4) 245.7 
Profit before tax from discontinued operations (section 2.5)     5.3  5.3  -  481.0  481.0 
Profit before tax     218.7  (50.7) 168.0  278.1  448.6  726.7 
Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%)  44.3  (10.3) 34.0  59.8  96.4  156.2 
Effects of:        
  Non-deductible items     2.7  1.5  4.2  2.9  4.7  7.6 
  Non-taxable loss/(profit) on disposal of businesses    0.1  0.5  0.6  -  (108.0) (108.0)
  Release of deferred tax asset     1.0  1.6  2.6  -  -  - 
  Utilisation of losses on which no deferred tax had been recognised   (2.6) -  (2.6) -  -  - 
  Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised  3.2  -  3.2  1.3  -  1.3 
  Change in future tax rate on UK deferred tax    (5.5) -  (5.5) -  -  - 
  Differing tax rates     0.1  (3.5) (3.4) 0.8  (1.7) (0.9)
  Under/(over) provided in prior years     4.8  0.1  4.9  (3.6) 2.8  (0.8)
Total tax in income statement (section 2.4)     48.1  (10.1) 38.0  61.2  (5.8) 55.4 
Income tax expense reported in the consolidated  income statement    48.1  (8.7) 39.4  61.2  (8.3) 52.9 
Effective rate of tax (continuing operations):      22.0%  24.2% 22.0%  21.5%
Income tax attributable to discontinued operations (section 2.5)     (1.4) (1.4)   2.5  2.5 
Effective rate of tax (discontinued operations):       -26.4%   0.5%
Total tax in income statement (section 2.4)     48.1  (10.1) 38.0  61.2  (5.8) 55.4 
Effective rate of tax (total Group):      22.0%  22.6% 22.0%  7.6%
               
The above income tax charge is apportioned between continuing and 
discontinued operations in the income statement as follows: 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current tax charge  
Continuing operations 39.3 39.9 
Discontinued operations (1.4) 3.0 
 37.9 42.9 
Deferred tax charge  
Continuing operations 0.1 13.0 
Discontinued operations  - (0.5)
0.1 12.5 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Total income tax charge  
Continuing operations 39.4 52.9 
Discontinued operations (1.4) 2.5 
38.0 55.4  94 IMI plc
SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR
Continued
2.4.6 
Recognised outside of the income statement
In addition to amounts charged to the income statement, some current tax and deferred tax is charged/(credited) directly to equity or through other comprehensive 
income, which can be analysed as follows: 
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Deferred tax:        
  On equity-settled transactions         0.9  5.2 
  On change in value of effective net investment hedge derivatives        (0.9) 0.7 
  On available for sale financial assets          (0.6) 0.4 
  On fair value gain on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds       - (3.0)
  On re-measurement gains and on defined benefit plans       10.7  2.2 
  On pension restructuring          - (3.0)
           10.1  2.5 
Current tax:        
  On pension restructuring          (0.5) 9.6 
  On foreign currency translation differences        3.1 (1.5)
  On equity-settled transactions         0.1 (4.0)
           12.8  6.6 
Of which the following amounts are charged/(credited):    
  to the statement of comprehensive income        11.8  5.4 
  to the statement of changes in equity         1.0  1.2 
           12.8  6.6
2.4.7 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred taxes record the tax consequences of temporary differences between the accounting and taxation recognition of certain items, as explained below: 
  Assets Liabilities Net
     2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets     1.9  3.7  (48.1) (40.8) (46.2) (37.1)
Inventories     3.1  3.5  (4.1) (4.1) (1.0) (0.6)
On revaluation of derivatives     0.7  1.9  (2.2) (2.4) (1.5) (0.5)
Employee benefits and provisions     30.0  35.2  (15.9) (5.4) 14.1  29.8 
Other tax assets     0.9  2.5  -  -  0.9  2.5 
       36.6  46.8  (70.3) (52.7) (33.7) (5.9)
Offsetting within tax jurisdictions     (16.8) (25.5) 16.8  25.5  -  - 
Total deferred tax assets and liabilities     19.8  21.3  (53.5) (27.2) (33.7) (5.9) 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The movement in the net deferred tax balances has been recognised in the financial statements as analysed below:
      Recognised Recognised  
      in the outside the   
     Balance at  income income   Acquisitions Balance at 
     1 Jan 15 statement statement Exchange /disposals 31 Dec 15 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets      (37.1) 8.3  - 2.0   (19.4) (46.2)
Inventories      (0.6)  (0.2) -  (0.2) - (1.0)
On revaluation of derivatives      (0.5)  (1.8) 0.9   (0.1) - (1.5)
Employee benefits and provisions     29.8   (5.1)  (11.0) 0.3  0.1  14.1 
Other tax assets     2.5   (1.3) -  (0.3) - 0.9
Net deferred tax asset/(liability)      (5.9)  (0.1)  (10.1) 1.7   (19.3) (33.7)
 
      Recognised Recognised  
      in the outside the   
     Balance at  income income    Balance at 
     1 Jan 14 statement statement Exchange Disposals 31 Dec 14 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets      (53.5) 7.1   -   (0.2) 9.5  (37.1)
Inventories     0.1   (2.4)  -   (0.2) 1.9  (0.6)
On revaluation of derivatives      (1.8)  (0.9) 2.3   (0.1)  -  (0.5)
Employee benefits and provisions     54.6   (15.8)  (4.8)  -   (4.2) 29.8 
Other tax assets     4.0   (0.5)   (0.3)  (0.7) 2.5
Net deferred tax asset/(liability)     3.4   (12.5)  (2.5)  (0.8) 6.5  (5.9) 
All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. 
2.4.8 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets of £48.9m (2014: £39.8m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £32.8m (2014: £16.1m), interest of £59.0m (2014: £40.4m) 
and capital losses of £123.2m (2014: £113.3m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date. No deferred tax asset has been recognised for these temporary 
differences due to uncertainty over their offset against future taxable profits and therefore their recoverability.
It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £74.3m (2014: £81.7m) of those earnings 
may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are 
not expected to exceed £5.3m (2014: £8.1m), of which £4.7m (2014: £2.0m) has been provided on the basis that the Group expects to remit these amounts. The balance 
has not been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of dividends and does not expect to pay up these amounts in the foreseeable future.
2.5  
 Discontinued operations
  When the Group has assets and liabilities that are likely to be sold rather than being held for continuing use and when accounting standards require, these assets 
and liabilities are included in current assets and liabilities and denoted ‘held for sale’ rather than in their usual categories. 
  If they represent a significant enough proportion of the Group, they are also treated as discontinued operations. This means that their trading performance, i.e. their revenues, 
costs and other items of income and expense, are no longer reported within the headline figures in the income statement and are instead reported in a separate line, net of 
tax, called ‘discontinued operations’. These amounts no longer form part of continuing earnings per share. Comparative figures are restated to be shown on the same basis. 
  This enables the income statement for the current and prior year to be presented on a consistent basis and to convey a more forward-looking version of the 
results for the year. 
A pre-tax and post-tax gain of £4.4m was recognised in the current year as a result of the finalisation of a number of matters relating to the disposal of the Retail Dispense 
businesses, which were sold on 1 January 2014 and a pre-tax gain of £0.9m and post-tax gain of £2.3m relating to other discontinued operations.
The prior year comparative includes a post-tax gain on disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses of £477.5m and a pre-tax and post-tax gain of £1.0m  
relating to other discontinued operations. 96 IMI plc
What you will find in this section 
This section shows the assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. 
Liabilities relating to the Group’s financing activities are addressed in Section 4. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are shown in Section 2.4.7. On the following pages there are sections covering working capital, non-current assets, 
acquisitions, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions.
3.1  
Working capital
  Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates 
through its trading activities. The Group therefore defines working capital  
as trade and other receivables, inventory and trade and other payables. 
Working capital is managed very carefully to ensure that the Group can  
meet its trading and financing obligations within its ordinary operating cycle. 
  To provide the Executive Committee with insight into the management 
of working capital, an important measure monitored is cash conversion. 
Cash conversion is defined as the operating cash flow (as defined in the 
commentary on the cash flow statement) divided by the segmental operating 
profit which therefore represents the proportion of segmental operating profit 
generated during the year that has been converted into cash. 
3.1.1  
Inventories
      2015  2014  
      £m  £m 
Raw materials and consumables   78.8  87.0 
Work in progress   99.7  71.9 
Finished goods   54.8  67.4 
      233.3  226.3 
 
In 2015 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense (being segmental 
cost of sales) amounted to £866.7m (2014: £919.6m). The Group’s inventory 
increased by £7m due to an increase of £7m following the acquisitions and 
disposals in the year and a further increase of £4m due to an increase in 
inventory of £13m within Critical Engineering, reflecting the timing of orders 
and customer shipments, partially offset by inventory reductions in Precision 
Engineering and Hydronic Engineering of £6m and £3m respectively as a result 
of lean initiatives. These increases were partially offset by a £4m reduction due 
to foreign exchange movements.
In 2015 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £5.8m 
(2014: £7.9m). The reversal of write-downs amounted to £2.5m (2014: £3.9m). 
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to on-going assessments of 
inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale  
values across all of the Group’s businesses.
3.1.2  
Trade and other receivables
      2015  2014  
      £m  £m
Current 
Trade receivables   291.3  318.0 
Other receivables   39.8  34.8 
Prepayments and accrued income   20.3  16.1 
      351.4  368.9 
Receivables are stated after:    
Allowance for impairment   8.9  7.1 
The reduction in the Group’s trade and other receivables of £18m is due to 
favourable cash movements of £29m and foreign exchange movements of 
£6m, partially offset by an increase of £17m following the acquisitions and 
disposals in the year.
The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other 
receivables is disclosed in section 4.4.
3.1.3  
Trade and other payables  
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
Current    
Trade payables   171.2  164.4 
Social security and other taxation   21.1  26.1 
Other payables   5.9  7.5 
Accruals and deferred income    143.9  135.9 
      342.1  333.9 
Non-current  
Other payables   24.2  28.2 
      366.3  362.1
The Group’s trade and other payables increased by £4m due to an increase of 
£11m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year and movements in 
accruals of £4m. These increases were partially offset by cash movements of 
£7m and foreign exchange movements of £4m.
SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3.2 
Intangible assets
  The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, 
order books, patents, development costs and software development costs. The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they 
have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights. 
  In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities 
acquired. The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources, but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition 
synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce. The value of the Group’s intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of  
years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement. 
  The Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets  
the definition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2. 
  Where there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer 
relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business 
acquired is below expectations, the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values. If this has happened,  
a one-off impairment charge is recognised. This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the specific judgements  
and estimates made by the directors in arriving at these values.
3.2.1 
Analysis of intangible assets
         Non-acquired 
     Acquired Other Total Other non- intangibles 
     customer acquired acquired acquired under 
    Goodwill relationships intangibles intangibles intangibles construction Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost            
As at 1 January 2014    330.0  137.2  85.4  552.6  48.2   -  600.8 
Exchange adjustments    (9.3) (6.0) (3.3) (18.6) (2.5)  -  (21.1)
Additions     -   -   -   -  7.3  10.9  18.2 
Transfers from assets in the course of construction    -   -   -   -  0.2  (0.2)  - 
Disposals     -   -   -   -  (0.6)  -  (0.6)
As at 31 December 2014    320.7  131.2  82.1  534.0  52.6  10.7  597.3 
Exchange adjustments    (4.5) (7.7) (1.8) (14.0) 0.2  (0.1) (13.9)
Acquisitions     52.5  43.9  20.7  117.1  1.0   -  118.1 
Disposals of subsidiaries    (2.4) (1.0) (15.0) (18.4)  -   -  (18.4)
Additions     -   -   -   -  5.9  14.1  20.0 
Transfers from assets in the course of construction    -   -   -   -  6.0  (6.0)  - 
Disposals     -   -   -   -  (0.9)  -  (0.9)
As at 31 December 2015    366.3  166.4  86.0  618.7  64.8  18.7  702.2 
Amortisation       
As at 1 January 2014     -  79.2  62.8  142.0  28.5   -  170.5 
Exchange adjustments     -  (3.2) (2.8) (6.0) (1.8)  -  (7.8)
Disposals     -   -   -   -  (0.5)  -  (0.5)
Impairment    27.8   -  12.9  40.7  2.1   -  42.8 
Amortisation for year     -  16.9  2.7  19.6  5.0   -  24.6 
As at 31 December 2014    27.8  92.9  75.6  196.3  33.3   -  229.6 
Exchange adjustments    (1.3) (2.9) (0.6) (4.8) (0.3)  -  (5.1)
Disposals of subsidiaries    (0.9) (0.7) (14.5) (16.1)  -   -  (16.1)
Disposals     -   -   -   -  (0.9)  -  (0.9)
Amortisation for year     -  19.7  12.5  32.2  5.3   -  37.5 
As at 31 December 2015    25.6  109.0  73.0  207.6  37.4   -  245.0 
Net book value at 31 December 2014    292.9  38.3  6.5  337.7  19.3  10.7  367.7 
Net book value at 31 December 2015    340.7  57.4  13.0  411.1  27.4  18.7  457.2 
          98 IMI plc
3.2.2
Goodwill impairment testing
  Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge. Instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash flows of the business  
to which it relates (the cash generating unit, or ‘CGU’). These cash flows are discounted to reflect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with 
the growth rates assumed in the cash flow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) based on the synergies 
expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose. The 
Group has 20 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated, compared 
to 24 in the prior year. The change in the composition of CGUs follows changes 
in both the way in which cash inflows are generated and the internal reporting 
structure. Where our businesses operate closely with each other we will continue 
to review whether they should be treated as a single or combined CGU.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment of 
assets against their recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount of a CGU is 
the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is 
determined using cash flow projections from financial budgets, forecasts and 
plans approved by the Board covering a five-year period and include a terminal 
value multiple. The projected cash flows reflect the latest expectation  
of demand for products and services.
The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and 
the discount rates applied to forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement 
of the forecasts themselves. Long-term growth rates are based on long-term 
economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical 
regions in which the cash generating unit operates. Pre-tax discount rates 
specific to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group 
post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of 8% (2014: 9%) for the 
tax rate relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the 
unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical 
regions from which the cash flows are derived.
This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the  
key assumptions:
 
       2015 2014 
      % %
Pre-tax discount rate   9.9 – 16.2 9.8 – 16.4
Long-term growth rate   1.0 – 2.1 1.0 – 3.8
For the purpose of assessing the significance of CGUs, the Group uses a 
threshold of 20% of the total goodwill balance. Goodwill of £78.4m associated 
with the Control Valves CGU in Critical Engineering is considered to be 
significant. The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from a value 
in use calculation. The key assumptions for the value in use valuation are 
the discount rate, growth rate and operating cashflows. These estimates are 
determined using the methodology discussed above. The discount rate applied 
for Control Valves is 12.5% and a growth rate of 1.6% is applied into perpetuity.
No other CGUs have goodwill that is considered significant in the context 
of the Group’s total goodwill balance, nor do any CGUs use the same key 
assumptions for the purposes of impairment testing in either this year or  
the last. 
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 
2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and 
incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, 
amounted to £364m. The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to 
goodwill is £34m (2014: £34m).
SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Continued 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3.3 
Property, plant and equipment
  The following section concerns the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include manufacturing, distribution and 
office sites, as well as equipment used in the manufacture of the Group’s products. The cost of these assets represents the amount initially paid for them. 
  With the exception of the Group’s land and assets under construction which have not yet been brought into use, a depreciation expense is charged to the  
income statement to reflect the annual wear and tear and the reduction in the value of the asset over time. Depreciation is calculated by reference to the assets’ 
useful lives, by estimating the number of years over which the Group expects the asset to be used. As we do for our intangible assets (see section 3.2), if there 
has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their 
depreciated value. If an asset’s value falls below its depreciated value, a one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
         Assets in the 
       Land & Plant & course of 
       buildings equipment construction Total 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost            
As at 1 January 2014        173.6   568.9   17.2   759.7 
Exchange adjustments        (8.7)  (25.2)  (0.6) (34.5)
Disposals of subsidiaries        (2.9)  (6.1)  (0.3) (9.3)
Additions        1.0   26.9   24.7   52.6 
Transfers from assets in the course of construction       1.2   19.8   (21.0)  - 
Disposals        (0.8)  (50.5)  -  (51.3)
As at 31 December 2014        163.4   533.8   20.0   717.2 
Exchange adjustments        (3.0)  (9.4)  0.1  (12.3)
Acquisitions        0.4   3.8   -   4.2 
Disposals of subsidiaries        (0.4)  (3.0)  -  (3.4)
Additions        1.8   22.9   25.9   50.6 
Transfers from assets in the course of construction       5.3   19.0   (24.3)  - 
Disposals        (8.0)  (42.5)  -  (50.5)
As at 31 December 2015       159.5  524.6  21.7  705.8 
Depreciation    
As at 1 January 2014       80.7  456.2  -  536.9 
Exchange adjustments       (4.3) (20.2)  -  (24.5)
Disposals of subsidiaries       (1.6) (4.7)  -  (6.3)
Disposals       (0.6) (48.5)  -  (49.1)
Impairment charge        -  0.7   -  0.7 
Depreciation        3.5  29.5   -  33.0 
As at 31 December 2014       77.7  413.0  -  490.7 
Exchange adjustments       (1.4) (7.0)  -  (8.4)
Disposals of subsidiaries       -  (1.7)  -  (1.7)
Disposals       (3.4) (42.0)  -  (45.4)
Impairment charge        5.1  1.8   -  6.9 
Depreciation        3.3  29.6   -  32.9 
As at 31 December 2015       81.3  393.7  -  475.0 
NBV at 31 December 2014       85.7  120.8  20.0  226.5 
NBV at 31 December 2015       78.2  130.9  21.7  230.8 
         
A net impairment charge of £6.9m relating to continuing operations occurred during the year (2014: £0.7m charge) as described in section 2.2. The recoverable 
amount of these assets has been determined using their fair value less costs to sell, estimated by both internal and external valuation specialists.  
Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date relating to the continuing business amounted to £6.9m 
(2014: £7.6m). 
Included in the total net book value of plant and equipment is £0.7m (2014: £1.0m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on 
these assets was £0.3m (2014: £0.3m). 100 IMI plc
SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Continued
3.4  
Acquisitions
  The following section discusses businesses acquired by the Group, which have given rise to the additions to the acquired intangible assets (including goodwill) 
reported in section 3.2 and which contributed to the Group’s profits, working capital and other balance sheet assets and liabilities. 
On 2 January 2015, the Group acquired the entire share capital of B&R Holding GmbH (‘Bopp & Reuther’) for a cash consideration of £109.2m (€140.8m).
Bopp & Reuther is a leading manufacturer of safety, control and shut-off valve technology for process industries as well as conventional fossil and nuclear power 
plants worldwide. Its head office and manufacturing plant is located in Mannheim, Germany and it has service centres in Germany, Austria, Romania and China.  
The senior management team and all of its approximately 400 employees transferred upon completion of the acquisition by the Group.
Bopp & Reuther joins the IMI Critical Engineering division and over the course of the year has been effectively integrated into its control valve business (‘CCI’).
The final fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are summarised below:
          £m
Customer relationships           43.9 
Order book           9.3 
Brand           11.4 
Property, plant and equipment           4.2 
Other intangibles - software           1.0 
Inventories           10.4 
Trade and other receivables           21.1 
Cash and cash equivalents           3.0 
Interest-bearing liabilities and borrowings          (8.6)
Trade and other payables          (14.9)
Taxation balances           (20.3)
Employee benefit obligations          (4.4)
Other assets           0.6 
Total identifiable net assets           56.7 
Goodwill arising on acquisition           52.5 
Total purchase consideration           109.2 
Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below:
          £m
Cash consideration            109.2
Net cash and cash equivalents acquired          (3.0)
Net cash paid on acquisition           106.2
Acquisition costs (included in cash flows from operating activities)         1.8 
Total cash flow on acquisition of controlling interests          108.0
The goodwill recognised is primarily attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Bopp & Reuther with those 
of the Group. The goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition costs of £2.2m were incurred in 2014 and were recorded as an exceptional item in the income statement. The cash flows associated with these 
acquisition costs in 2015 are shown in the table above.
At the date of the acquisition, the fair value and gross amount of the trade receivables was £21.1m. At 31 December 2015, £0.1m of the trade receivables have 
been impaired. 
From the date of acquisition, Bopp & Reuther has contributed £46m of revenue and a profit of £1.3m to the operating profit of the Group. In addition, the effective 
integration of Bopp & Reuther within IMI Critical Engineering’s existing large control valve business has resulted in strong revenue synergies elsewhere within  
the Group. 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3.5  
Disposals
 Disposals in the current year 
During the year, the Group disposed of Asterm SAS (‘Asterm’), IMI Scott Limited (‘Scott’), Zimmerman & Jansen South Africa (Pty.) Ltd (‘Z&J SA’) and the non-core 
elements of Nano Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’), with the remainder of the NPSL business being transferred to Norgren UK. 
These disposals resulted in losses of £8.8m and with the exception of Asterm, are presented in the income statement as an exceptional item as, based on their 
quantum, they meet our definition of exceptional items. The losses on disposals are not disclosed within discontinued operations because none of these businesses 
represented a separate major line of business. 
A summary of the proceeds received, assets disposed and resulting losses on disposal are included in the table below:
      Asterm Scott Z&J SA NPSL 
      21 January 30 October 13 November 16 December  Total 
      2015 2015  2015  2015  2015 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Sale consideration      0.4  1.2  0.2  0.7  2.5 
Net assets disposed      (0.7) (2.7) (2.2) (2.0) (7.6)
Costs of disposal      (0.1) (0.6) (0.4) (0.6) (1.7)
Foreign exchange loss reclassified on disposal      -   -  (2.0)  -  (2.0)
Loss on disposal      (0.4) (2.1) (4.4) (1.9) (8.8)
Net cash flow arising on disposal     
Sale consideration      0.4  1.2  0.2  0.7  2.5 
Cash disposed of      (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.8)
Cash costs of disposal      (0.1) (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (1.1)
Net cash flow arising on disposal of operations      0.1  0.5  (0.5) 0.5  0.6 
      
Disposals in the prior year 
Retail Dispense    
The Group disposed of the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014 for proceeds of £691.2m resulting in a post-tax gain on disposal of £477.5m.  
Eley    
The Group disposed of Eley Limited, Accles and Shelvoke Limited and Eley Americas Inc (together ‘Eley’) on 4 October 2014 for proceeds of £41.6m resulting in a gain 
on disposal for the Group of £33.1m, after disposing of £6.5m of net assets and incurring £2.0m of associated costs.  
AFP    
The Group disposed of Mecanique Analytique Inc (trade name ‘AFP’) on 23 October 2014 for proceeds of £3.4m resulting in a gain on disposal for the Group of £1.1m, 
after disposing of £1.3m of net assets and incurring £1.0m of associated costs.
The gains on disposal of Eley and AFP were presented in the income statement as an exceptional item. They were not disclosed as discontinued operations because 
they did not represent a separate major line of business. 102 IMI plc
3.6 Provisions
  A provision is recorded instead of a payable (see section 3.1.3) when there is less certainty over how much cash will be paid and when the payment might be made. 
When the Group has an obligation relating to previous events and when it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, a provision rather than a payable is recorded.  
In this situation, an estimate is required. 
 The principal estimates made in respect of the Group’s provisions concern the timing and amount of payments required to:
 • cover the costs of known restructuring projects;
 • reimburse customers for potential product warranty claims; 
 • ensure that current and former manufacturing sites meet relevant environmental standards;
 • reflect the estimated outcome of ongoing legal disputes; and
 • provide against indemnities following the disposal of subsidiaries.
Analysis of the Group’s provisions:
          Environmental, 
        Trade  legal & 
       Restructuring warranties  indemnity Total  
       £m £m £m £m
Current       4.4  6.9  11.4  22.7 
Non-current       1.2  7.4  7.8  16.4 
At 1 January 2015       5.6  14.3  19.2  39.1 
Arising during the year       24.4  2.6  (4.7) 22.3 
Utilised during the year       (16.4) (1.3) (0.3) (18.0)
Exchange adjustment       (0.2) (0.1) (0.5) (0.8) 
At 31 December 2015       13.4  15.5  13.7  42.6 
Current       12.5  9.3  3.3  25.1 
Non-current       0.9  6.2  10.4  17.5 
         13.4  15.5  13.7  42.6 
         
The restructuring provision reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects.
Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically one to two years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than 
and greater than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent the directors’ best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing 
of resolution with customers.
Environmental and legal provisions recognise the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites, together with current legal 
cases for which a settlement is considered probable. Because of the long-term nature of the liabilities, the timescales are uncertain and the provisions represent the 
directors’ best estimates of these costs.
Provisions for indemnities included in the agreed terms of disposals of subsidiaries are provided for based on the expected probability of indemnified losses that may be 
suffered by the purchaser.
SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Continued 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
What you will find in this section 
This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related financing costs. The directors determine the 
appropriate capital structure for the Group, specifically, how much cash is raised from shareholders (equity) and how  
much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in the future.  
The directors consider the Group’s capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing results 
in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan. 
The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily flexed and in particular raising new equity would normally be  
likely only in the context of an acquisition. Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but frequent adjustments  
lead to high transaction costs and debt holders are under no obligation to accept repurchase offers.
4.1 Net debt
  Net debt is the Group’s key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt, net of the current cash resources. Some of the Group’s borrowings (and cash)  
are held in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates affect the sterling value of the net debt. 
a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents
 
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents in current assets        114.2  43.8 
Bank overdraft in current liabilities         (6.4) (23.0)
Cash and cash equivalents          107.8  20.8 
b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings
       
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents excluding foreign exchange and net cash disposed/acquired   85.7  (39.9)
Net (drawdown)/repayment of borrowings         (107.9) 80.7 
(Increase)/decrease in net debt before acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange     (22.2) 40.8 
Net cash disposed         (0.8) (29.0)
Net debt acquired         (5.6) - 
Currency translation differences         (8.3) (12.4)
Movement in net borrowings in the year         (36.9) (0.6)
Net borrowings at the start of the year         (200.0) (199.4)
Net borrowings at the end of the year         (236.9) (200.0)
      104 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
c) Analysis of net debt
  Borrowings and  
 finance leases due  
          Cash and cash within after more Total 
        equivalents one year than one year net debt 
        £m  £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2015       20.8  (2.0) (218.8) (200.0)
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed of       (0.8)   (0.8)
Net cash/(debt) acquired       3.0  -  (8.6) (5.6)
Cash flow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet and net cash disposed of/acquired 53.8  (49.1) (58.8) (54.1)
Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet      31.9    31.9 
Currency translation differences       (0.9) (3.0) (4.4) (8.3)
At 31 December 2015       107.8  (54.1) (290.6) (236.9)
4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
  The Group borrows money from financial institutions in the form of bonds and other financial instruments. These generally have fixed interest rates and are for a 
fixed term or are drawn from committed borrowing facilities that generally have floating interest rates. 
This section provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to 
interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4.3. 
 
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Current liabilities    
Unsecured loan notes and other loans         53.6  1.3 
Finance lease liabilities         0.5  0.7 
           54.1  2.0 
Non-current liabilities  
Unsecured loan notes and other loans         290.2  218.2 
Finance lease liabilities         0.4  0.6 
           290.6  218.8 
The increase in unsecured notes and other loans is primarily due to the drawdown of £107.9m of loans in the year, following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther.
Continued 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.3 Net financing costs
  This section details the income generated on the Group’s financial assets and the expense incurred on borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities.  
The finance income and expense taken into account in arriving at reported earnings only includes the income and expense arising on cash balances,  
borrowings and retirement benefit obligations. The finance income or expense on mark-to-market movements on interest and foreign exchange derivatives  
and other financing costs are excluded from adjusted earnings per share. 
Recognised in the income statement
 2015 2014
      Financial   Financial  
     Interest instruments Total Interest  instruments Total 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income on bank deposits     3.2   3.2  1.1   1.1 
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss:       
  Designated hedges      -  -   0.8  0.8 
  Other economic hedges        
  - current year trading      14.5  14.5   7.1  7.1 
  - future year transactions      6.4  6.4   7.2  7.2 
Financial income     3.2  20.9  24.1  1.1  15.1  16.2 
Interest expense on interest-bearing loans and borrowings   (21.6)  (21.6) (15.4)  (15.4)
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss:       
  Designated hedges      -  -   (0.8) (0.8)
  Other economic hedges       
  - current year trading      (16.8) (16.8)  (7.2) (7.2)
  - future year transactions      (9.1) (9.1)  (13.8) (13.8)
Financial expense     (21.6) (25.9) (47.5) (15.4) (21.8) (37.2)
Net financial income/(expense) relating to defined  benefit pension schemes  0.2   0.2  (3.1)  (3.1)
Net financial expense     (18.2) (5.0) (23.2) (17.4) (6.7) (24.1)
                 
Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes 
are included in segmental revenue and operating profit (see section 2.1). For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and 
expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows. 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
         2015 2014 
         £m £m
Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges       (11.0) 3.6 
Foreign currency translation differences         2.9  (14.7)
Settlement of/change in fair value of deal contingent forward        -  (14.2)
Change in fair value of other financial assets         (1.7) 1.1 
Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income       (1.6) 3.4 
Total items recognised in other comprehensive income (net of tax)       (11.4) (20.8)
Recognised in:   
  Hedging reserve         (10.1) (8.3)
  Translation reserve         (0.2) (13.2)
  Retained earnings         (1.1) 0.7 
           (11.4) (20.8) 106 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.4  
Financial risk management
  The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: interest rate, 
foreign exchange and base metal price movements in addition to funding and 
liquidity risks. The financial instruments used to manage the underlying risks 
themselves introduce exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk. 
  This section presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of 
these risks; the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring 
and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s 
management of capital.
4.4.1  
Overview
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of 
the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 44 the Executive Committee monitors risk and 
internal controls and the Audit Committee monitors financial risk, while the  
other Board committees also play a part in contributing to the oversight of risk.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with 
the Group’ s financial risk management policies and procedures and reviews the 
adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the financial risks faced 
by the Group. The Group Assurance department undertakes both regular and  
ad-hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of  
which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The following sections discuss the management of specific financial risk factors  
in detail, including credit risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity 
risk and liquidity risk. 
4.4.2  
Credit risk
  Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or 
counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, 
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash  
and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other financial assets.  
At the end of 2015 these totalled £417.9m (2014: £388.9m).
4.4.2.1  
Managing credit risk arising  
from customers 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer 
base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers 
operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. Our largest single customer 
accounted for 2% of our 2015 revenues (2014: 3%).
Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s 
contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at 
executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including 
potential credit and foreign exchange risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised 
through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash 
flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate.
4.4.2.2  
Exposure to credit risk in respect  
of financial assets
The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their 
carrying value and is analysed below: 
     Carrying amount
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents   107.8  43.8 
Investments    18.7  19.0 
Forward exchange contracts*   0.1  8.1 
      126.6  70.9 
*  Forward exchange contracts include the net amount receivable by each entity 
in the Group, from each financial institution, reflecting the Group’s maximum 
credit exposure since individual entities within the Group have the right but  
not the obligation to settle these net.
4.4.2.3  
Exposure to credit risk in respect  
of trade receivables
     Carrying amount
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
UK    18.4  23.7 
Germany   25.9  23.5 
Rest of Europe   77.0  89.3 
USA   43.6  51.2 
Asia Pacific   74.1  90.9 
Rest of World   52.3  39.4 
      291.3 318.0 
     
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date 
by segment was as follows:
     Carrying amount
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
IMI Critical Engineering   156.8  170.7 
IMI Precision Engineering   95.6  111.2 
IMI Hydronic Engineering   38.9  36.1 
      291.3  318.0 
     107 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.4.2.4 
Impairment provisions for trade receivables
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
    2015 2014
    Gross Impairment Gross Impairment  
    £m £m £m £m
Not past due 247.9  (0.3) 273.1  (0.5)
Past due 1-30 days 22.9  (0.5) 26.8  (0.6)
Past due 31-90 days 14.4  (0.7) 13.8  (0.6)
Past due over 90 days  15.0  (7.4) 11.4  (5.4)
Total 300.2  (8.9) 325.1  (7.1) 
The net movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade 
receivables during the year was as follows:
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
Net balance at 1 January   7.1  8.1 
Utilised during the year   (1.0) (1.5)
Charged to the income statement   3.5  2.3 
Released   (0.4) (1.1)
Exchange   (0.3) (0.7)
Net balance at 31 December    8.9  7.1 
     
The net impairment charge recognised of £3.1m (2014: charge of £1.2m) 
relates to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery 
from a range of customers across all of its businesses.
4.4.2.5  
Managing credit risk arising  
from counterparties 
A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services,  
with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives  
are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure  
to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the 
counterparties. At the end of 2015 credit exposure including cash deposited  
did not exceed £23.2m with any single institution (2014: £7.5m). 
4.4.3  
Market risk
  Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign 
exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Group’s 
income and cash flows or the value of its financial instruments. The objective 
of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters.
  Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters 
into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial 
liabilities in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out 
within the guidelines set by the Board and are undertaken only if they relate to 
underlying exposures.
4.4.3.1  
Foreign exchange risk
  The Group publishes consolidated accounts in sterling but conducts much 
of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks 
associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs 
(‘transactional risk’), translation of foreign profits (‘profit translation risk’)  
and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations (‘asset 
translation risk’). 
a) Management of transactional risk
The Group’ s wide geographical spread both in terms of cost base and customer 
locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange 
rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the 
Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and 
purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time 
of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using 
currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of 
forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging 
is periodically adjusted following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the 
Group’s annual exposures to transactional risk are likely to be hedged at any point 
in time and the Group’s net transactional exposure to different currencies varies 
from time to time.
As discussed in the commentary on the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income the Group used a deal-contingent forward to hedge 
the foreign exchange exposure on the US denominated proceeds for the Retail 
Dispense businesses resulting in a net pre-tax gain of £8.2m in the prior year.
b) Management of profit translation risk
The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign 
currencies into the sterling-based income statement. The interest cost related 
to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this 
exposure. Short-term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited 
protection against sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation 
of US dollar and euro-based profits represent the most significant translation 
exposures for the Group.
c) Management of asset translation risk
The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way 
of external currency loans and forward currency contracts. The intention is to 
manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting 
from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates.
To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign 
operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is 
recognised directly in reserves. Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.  108 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
d) Currency profile of assets and liabilities
      Assets  
      subject 
     Exchange to interest Other Total Total
    Cash* Debt contracts rate risk net assets net assets net assets 
    2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling    65   -  270  335  77  412  426 
US dollar    5  (231) 85  (141) 141  -  26 
Euro    3  (111) (209) (317) 377  60  (10)
Other    35  (3) (146) (114) 231  117  112 
Total    108  (345) -  (237) 826  589  554 
* Cash is stated net of overdrafts. 
Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets.
4.4.3.2 
Interest rate risk
  The Group is exposed to a number of global interest rates through assets and liabilities denominated in jurisdictions to which these rates are applied, most notably 
US, Eurozone and UK rates. The Group is exposed to these because market movements in these rates will increase or decrease the interest charge recognised in 
the Group income statement. 
a) Management of interest rate risk
The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest 
rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s income statement is manageable.
Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short-term debt 
which bears interest at short-term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter-bank rates.
All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as floating rate investments.
Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short-term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the following analysis. 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.4.3.3 
Commodity risk
  The commodity inputs to the Group’s production process typically consist  
of base metals. Commodity risk for the Group is the risk that the prices of 
these inputs could rise, thus reducing Group profits.
a) Overview
The Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components and 
are therefore exposed to changes in commodity prices.
b) Management of commodity risk
The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging 
copper, zinc and aluminium using a combination of financial contracts and local 
supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short-term margins. 
4.4.3.4 
Liquidity risk 
  Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial 
obligations as they fall due.
a) Management of liquidity risk
The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible,  
that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when they  
fall due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions.  
This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and 
comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series 
of US loan note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities 
and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 
12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions 
and corporate activity, including acquisitions, organic growth plans and share 
buybacks. In addition, we undertake regular covenant compliance reviews to 
ensure that we remain fully within those covenant limits. At the end of 2015 the 
Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £294m (2014: £272m) and 
was holding cash and cash equivalents of £114m (2014: £44m). There are no 
significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas 
for the Group. 
4.4.4  
Capital management 
  Capital management concerns the decision as to how the Group’s activities 
are financed and specifically, how much of the Group capital is provided by 
borrowings (or debt) and how much of it is financed with equity raised from 
the issue of share capital. 
  The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital  
base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business 
including acquisitions. This section discusses how the Board views the  
capital base of the Group and the impact on leverage, distribution policy  
and investment policy. 
b) Interest rate risk profile
The following table shows how much of our cash, interest-bearing liabilities and exchange contracts attract both fixed and floating rate interest charges,  
and how this is analysed between currencies: 
    
      Assets    Weighted 
      Debt and Cash and subject   Weighted average 
    exchange exchange to interest Floating Fixed average period 
    contracts contracts rate risk rate  rate  fixed for which 
    2015  2015  2015 2015  2015  interest rate rate is fixed 
    £m £m £m £m £m % years
Sterling    -   335   335   335  -   
US dollar     (231)  90   (141)  90   (231)  6.8   2.4 
Euro     (320)  3   (317)  (207)  (110)  1.4   9.3 
Other     (149)  35   (114)  (114) -   
Total     (700)  463   (237)  104   (341)     
               
      Assets    Weighted 
      Debt and Cash and subject   Weighted average 
    exchange exchange to interest Floating Fixed average period 
    contracts contracts rate risk rate  rate  fixed for which 
    2014  2014  2014 2014  2014  interest rate rate is fixed 
    £m £m £m £m £m % years
Sterling    -   343   343   343  -   
US dollar     (218)  106   (112)  106   (218)  6.8   3.4 
Euro     (303)  6   (297)  (297) -   
Other     (172)  38   (134)  (134) -   
Total     (693)  493   (200)  18   (218)    
                110 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.4.4.1 
Overview
The Board monitors the geographical spread of its shareholders and 
employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying 
capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. 
Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended 
capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed 
further in section 4.5 of the financial statements. Undrawn committed funding 
facilities are maintained as described in section 4.4.5.1 to provide additional 
capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity 
requirements as discussed above. 
4.4.4.2 
Capital base
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
Total equity    589   554 
Gross debt including overdrafts    351   244 
Gross cash   (114) (44)
Capital base    826  754 
Employee benefits and deferred tax assets  (24)  13 
Extended capital base    802   767 
Undrawn funding facilities    294   272 
Available capital base    1,096   1,039 
Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base 
of the assets being funded as described in the asset translation risk section.
4.4.4.3 
Debt or equity 
The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Group is 
considered regularly by the Board in light of market conditions, business 
forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to continuing EBITDA 
before exceptional items. Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a 
maximum of 3.0 times EBITDA. The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 
2015 was 0.9 times (2014: 0.6 times). Through the life of our five year plan,  
the Board would consider appropriate acquisitions that could take net debt  
up to 2.5 times EBITDA on acquisition, provided that a clear plan exists to 
reduce this ratio back to under 2.0 times. It is expected that at these levels 
our debt would continue to be perceived as investment grade. The potential 
benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and 
the cost and availability of funding. The Board will consider raising additional 
equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group.
4.4.4.4  
Dividend policy and share buy-backs
As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate 
reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder 
dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives  
and any on-market share buyback programme.
The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend 
should, through the cycle, be covered by at least two times reported earnings. 
In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient investment opportunities 
through capital expenditure, organic growth initiatives and acquisitions, the 
return of funds to shareholders through share buybacks or special dividends  
will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly 
bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the 
exposure under certain management incentive plans. Details of these  
purchases are shown in section 4.6.2 to the financial statements.
4.4.4.5 
Weighted average cost of capital
The Group currently uses a post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) 
of 8% (2014: 9%) as a benchmark for investment returns. This is reviewed 
regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks the Group’s 
return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers 
returns in excess of the WACC.
4.4.5 
Debt and credit facilities 
  This section provides details regarding the specific borrowings that the Group 
has in place to satisfy the debt elements of the capital management policy 
discussed above. 
4.4.5.1 
Undrawn committed facilities
The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities 
available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had  
been met were as follows:
      2015  2014  
      £m £m
Expiring within one year    22.1   48.3 
Expiring between one and two years    75.0   23.2 
Expiring after more than two years    197.1   200.0 
       294.2   271.5 
The weighted average life of these facilities is 3.2 years (2014: 2.9 years). 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.4.5.2 
Terms and debt repayment schedule
The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows:
   Effective Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to  4 to  5 years 
  interest rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years and over 
  % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2015                   
Cash and cash equivalents  Floating 114.2  114.2  114.2      
US loan notes 2016  7.26% (50.9) (53.0) (53.0)     
US loan notes 2018  5.98% (101.7) (114.8) (6.1) (6.1) (102.6)   
US loan notes 2019  7.61% (67.8) (86.4) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (70.8)  
US loan notes 2022  7.17% (10.2) (15.1) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.6)
US loan notes 2025  1.39% (110.4) (124.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (117.0)
Finance leases  Various (1.0) (1.0) (0.5) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1)  
Bank overdrafts  Floating (6.4) (6.4) (6.4)     
Unsecured bank loans  Floating (2.7) (2.9) (2.7) (0.1) (0.1)   
Total    (236.9)  (289.9)  38.1   (13.9)  (110.2)  (73.1)  (2.2) (128.6)
2014                   
Cash and cash equivalents  Floating 43.8  43.8  43.8      
US loan notes 2016  7.26% (48.1) (53.6)  (3.5)  (50.1)    
US loan notes 2018  5.98% (96.2) (114.4)  (5.8)  (5.8)  (5.8)  (97.0)  
US loan notes 2019  7.61% (64.1) (86.5)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (4.9)  (66.9) 
US loan notes 2022  7.17% (9.6) (15.1)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7)  (0.7) (11.6)
Finance leases  Various (1.3) (1.3)  (0.6)  (0.4)  (0.2)  (0.1)  
Bank overdrafts  Floating (23.0) (23.0)  (23.0)     
Unsecured bank loans  Floating (1.5) (1.8)  (1.4)  (0.2)  (0.1)  (0.1)  
Total    (200.0)  (251.9)  3.9   (62.1)  (11.7)  (102.8)  (67.6) (11.6)
                   
Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by 
reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. 112 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.4.6 
Fair value
  Financial instruments included in the financial statements are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. The measurement of this fair value can in some 
cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The Group generally calculates its own fair values using comparable observed  
market prices and a valuation model using the respective and relevant market data for the instrument being valued.
4.4.6.1 
Total financial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2015  
and 31 December 2014. Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the  
income statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties.  
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
       Fair value
      Other Available for At Total 
     Designated derivatives sale assets amortised carrying Fair value 
     at fair value at fair value at fair value cost value if different 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
2015                   
Cash and cash equivalents       114.2   114.2  
Bank overdrafts        (6.4) (6.4) 
Borrowings due within one year        (54.1) (54.1) (55.6)
Borrowings due after one year        (290.6) (290.6) (308.3)
Trade and other payables*        (352.6) (352.6) 
Trade receivables        291.3  291.3  
Investments       18.7  8.3  27.0  
Other current financial assets/(liabilities)      
  Derivative assets**      2.8    2.8  
  Derivative liabilities***     (2.9) (6.0)   (8.9) 
Total     (2.9) (3.2) 132.9  (404.1) (277.3) 
2014             
Cash and cash equivalents       43.8   43.8 
Bank overdrafts        (23.0) (23.0)
Borrowings due within one year        (2.0) (2.0)
Borrowings due after one year        (218.8) (218.8) (248.7)
Trade and other payables*        (361.4) (361.4)
Trade receivables        318.0  318.0 
Investments       19.0  7.9  26.9 
Other current financial assets/(liabilities)     
  Derivative assets**     8.1  2.4    10.5 
  Derivative liabilities***      (9.2)   (9.2)
Total     8.1  (6.8) 62.8  (279.3) (215.2) 
               
*  Trade and other payables exclude corporation tax and other tax liabilities and include liabilities of £10.5m (2014: £15.4m) falling due after more than one year 
**  Includes £0.2m (2014: nil) falling due after more than one year.
***  Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.3m (2014: £0.4m) falling due after more than one year: £0.3m in 1-2 years and nil in 2-3 years (2014: £0.4m in 
1-2 yrs and nil in 2-3 yrs). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The decrease in value of net 
investment hedge derivatives (from an asset to a liability) in the year of £11.0m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (net of tax).
There are no other financial liabilities included within payables disclosed above and finance leases disclosed in section 4.4.5.2. 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The following table shows the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value.
        Quoted prices in  
        active markets  Significant 
       for identical  other 
       assets and  observable Unobservable 
       liabilities inputs inputs  
       Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
       £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2015 
Financial assets measured at fair value      
Equity instruments*       18.7    18.7 
Cash and cash equivalents       114.2    114.2 
Foreign currency forward contracts        2.8   2.8 
         132.9  2.8  -  135.7 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value    
Foreign currency forward contracts        (8.9)  (8.9)
         -  (8.9) -  (8.9)
As at 31 December 2014 
Financial assets measured at fair value    
Equity instruments*       19.0    19.0 
Cash and cash equivalents       43.8    43.8 
Foreign currency forward contracts        10.5   10.5 
         62.8  10.5  -  73.3 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value    
Foreign currency forward contracts        (9.2)  (9.2)
         -  (9.2) -  (9.2)
* Equity instruments relate to investments in funds in order to satisfy long-term benefit arrangements.    
Valuation techniques for level 2 inputs      
Derivative assets and liabilities of £2.8m and £8.9m respectively are valued by level 2 techniques. The valuations are derived from discounted contractual cash  
flows using observable, and directly relevant, market interest rates and foreign exchange rates from market data providers.
Valuation techniques for level 3 inputs
The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair value using significant unobservable (level 3) inputs.
4.4.6.2 
Valuation methodology
Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, trade payables and trade receivables are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the 
short-term nature of the instruments.
Long-term and short-term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not 
be repaid prior to maturity, where this option exists. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. 
Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows.
Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal hedges, are valued using comparable observed market 
prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities.
Investments are primarily in publically-quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities. The fair value is determined by the unadjusted price quotation  
at the reporting date. 114 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.4.6.3
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. 
4.4.7 
Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments
 This section shows how the fair value of financial instruments presented can change for a given change in market rates. 
  The values shown in the table below are estimates of the impact on financial instruments only. The underlying risks that these financial instruments have been 
acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction.
4.4.7.1 
Overview
In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity. The analysis is 
for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential 
losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets. As such this table should not be considered as  
a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments.
4.4.7.2 
Financial derivatives sensitivity table
The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial derivatives  
and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge.   
      1%  1%    10%  10%  
     decrease increase 10% 10% decrease in increase in 
     in interest in interest weakening strengthening base metal base metal 
     rates rates in sterling in sterling costs costs  
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2015            
Impact on income statement (loss)/gain     -  -  (0.7) 0.7  0.3  (0.3)
Impact on equity (loss)/gain     -  -  (55.3) 55.3  -  - 
At 31 December 2014      
Impact on income statement (loss)/gain     -  -  (1.4) 1.4  (0.1) 0.1 
Impact on equity (loss)/gain     -  -  (52.1) 52.1  -  -  115 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.5 Retirement benefits
  IMI offers a number of defined benefit arrangements to employees that will not be paid until more than a year after the period in which they are earned,  
for example pension benefits, jubilee plans, post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements. 
  There is a significant degree of estimation involved in predicting the ultimate benefits payable under these defined benefit arrangements in respect of which  
the Group holds net liabilities on its balance sheet. This section explains how the value of these benefits payable and any assets funding the arrangements  
are accounted for in the Group financial statements and gives details of the key assumptions upon which the estimations are based.
  Assets and liabilities for defined contribution arrangements are minimal as they relate solely to short-term timing differences between the period during which 
benefits have accrued and when contributions are paid into schemes. 
  Defined contribution (‘DC’): Arrangements where the employer pays fixed contributions into an external fund on behalf of the employee (who is responsible for 
making the investment decision and therefore assumes the risks and rewards of fund performance). Contributions to these arrangements are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred. 
   Defined benefit (‘DB’): A defined benefit pension plan is a pension arrangement in which the employer promises a specified annual benefit on retirement that is 
predetermined by a formula based on the employee’s earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than depending directly on individual investment returns. 
In some cases, this benefit is paid as a lump sum on leaving the Company or while in the service of the Company rather than as a pension. The Group underwrites 
one or more risks in meeting these obligations and therefore any net liability or surplus in these arrangements is shown on the Group balance sheet. 
4.5.1 
Summary information 
Net pension surplus: £4.4m (2014: deficit of £34.7m)
The net pension surplus or ‘net asset for defined benefit obligations’ (‘DBO’) at 31 December 2015 was £4.4m (2014: deficit of £34.7m). The assets and liabilities  
of the schemes are aggregated, recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and shown within non-current liabilities or in non-current assets if a scheme is in 
surplus and it is recoverable.
Number of defined benefit arrangements: 63 (2014: 64)
During the year, following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, the Group took on the Bopp & Reuther Pension & Jubilee plans and also recognised the CCI Long 
Service Plan in Australia. The Group fully settled the IMI Americas inc & CCI inc Pension plans and the Asterm retirement indemnity plan, following disposal. It is 
anticipated the number of DBOs will reduce in 2016 following the merger of the five Swiss plans into the IMI Switzerland Pension Fund from 1 January 2016 and  
the formal wind-up of the IMI Pension Fund.
The following table shows a summary of the geographical profile of the Group’s DBOs:       
 
          Surplus/   
      Quantity Assets  DBO (deficit) Quantity 
      2015  £m £m £m 2014
Australia      2 - (0.3) (0.3) 1
Austria      6 - (2.4) (2.4) 6
France      3 0.1 (0.9) (0.8) 4
Germany      27 5.0 (45.8) (40.8) 25
India      6 - (0.4) (0.4) 6
Italy      6 - (2.9) (2.9) 7
Spain      2 - (0.1) (0.1) 2
Switzerland      5 68.3 (86.7) (18.4) 5
US*      3 - (18.2) (18.2) 5
UK       3 1,272.9 (1,184.0) 88.9 3
Asset ceiling       (0.2)  (0.2) 
        63 1,346.1 (1,341.7) 4.4 64
*  The US deficit above excludes £18.7m of assets relating to unqualified plans classified as investments (see section 4.4.6). 116 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
      %  % 
      of total  of total  
    Qty Assets assets DBO liabilities 
Type of scheme No.  £m % £m %
2015 
Final salary* 21   1,273.0  95%  (1,233.4)  92%
Cash balance** 11   68.3  5%  (89.4)  7%
Jubilee*** 13   -  0%  (2.0)  0%
Other 18   5.0  0%  (16.9)  1%
Total  63   1,346.3  100%  (1,341.7)  100%
Asset ceiling    (0.2)   
Revised assets    1,346.1       
2014
Final salary* 23   1,369.8  93%  (1,362.7) 90%
Cash balance** 12   101.0  7%  (127.4) 9%
Jubilee*** 11   -  0%  (2.0) 0%
Other 18   5.0  0%  (18.3) 1%
Total  64   1,475.8  100%  (1,510.4) 100%
Asset Ceiling   (0.1)   
Revised assets    1,475.7       
* Final Salary scheme: The pension available to a member in a final salary 
arrangement will be a proportion of the member’s salary at or around their 
retirement date. This proportion will be determined by the member’s length  
of pensionable service, their accrual rate and any particular circumstances  
under which the member retires (for example early ill-health retirement).
** Cash Balance: A cash balance scheme is a form of defined benefit pension 
under which the member has the right to a defined lump sum on retirement rather 
than a defined amount of pension receivable. For example a cash balance plan 
may have minimum or guaranteed rates of return on pension contributions.  
The amount of pension to which that lump sum may be converted is  
determined by the annuity rates prevailing at the time of conversion.
*** Jubilee: Jubilee plans provide for cash award payments which are based  
on completed lengths of service. These payments are often made on cessation  
of service with the Company, subject to a minimum period of service.
    
The Group provides pension benefits through a mixture of funded and unfunded 
defined benefit and defined contribution (‘DC’) arrangements, although its 
strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined 
contribution arrangements wherever possible to minimise the liability of the 
Group. Assessments of the obligations of the defined benefit plans are carried 
out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. An 
historical split of the types of defined benefit schemes in operation is as follows: 
Asset profile of schemes     
The following table sets out the profile of the overall assets of the schemes (to 
give an indication of their risk profile), the comparative amounts of the funded  
and unfunded DBO and a split of the balance sheet impact between schemes 
with a net pension surplus and a net pension deficit. 
       2015  2014  
       £m £m
Quoted equities    77.8  22.9
Quoted bonds     661.8   703.1
Total quoted assets    739.6   726.0 
Private equities    92.3 85.0
Insurance policies    273.9   287.9
IMI Scottish Limited Partnership    17.4   15.1
Hedge funds    142.7   185.4
Property    30.1   34.8
Private finance initiatives    -   76.8
Other*    50.3   64.8
Total unquoted assets    606.7   749.8
Fair value of assets    1,346.3   1,475.8 
Restriction due to asset ceiling    (0.2) (0.1)
DBOs for funded schemes    (1,277.1) (1,445.0)
DBOs for unfunded schemes    (64.6) (65.4)
Net surplus/ (deficit) for DBOs    4.4  (34.7)
Schemes in net pension deficit    (84.3) (94.9)
Schemes in net pension surplus    88.7  60.2 
    
*  ‘Other’ assets include the market value of interest, inflation, equity and 
currency swaps relating to UK scheme assets and liabilities. 
The overseas assets of £73.2m (2014: £152.1m) comprise equities of  
£12.5m (2014: £22.9m), bonds of £22.2m (2014: £88.7m), insurance of 
£28.8m (2014: nil), property of £6.5m (2014: £9.5m) and other assets of  
£3.2m (2014: £31.0m).
Funded: The majority of the Group defined benefit and other post-employment 
benefit arrangements are funded, which means they are linked to specific plan 
assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. 
Unfunded: Plans that are not funded are those that are not backed by 
segregated assets. These include some pension plans but also a number of other 
long-term arrangements for the benefit of our employees, with benefits payable 
while they are employed by the Group but more than 12 months after the related 
service is rendered. Actuarial gains and losses on other long-term arrangements 
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Average duration by geography
The following table shows the weighted average number of years (or duration) 
over which pension benefits are expected to be paid:
Location     Years
UK     15.6
Switzerland    18.1
USA    9.2
Eurozone    14.7 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.5.2  
The UK and overseas pension funds 
4.5.2.1  
The UK Funds
The United Kingdom constitutes 88% (2014: 84%) of total defined benefit 
liabilities and 95% (2014: 90%) of total defined benefit assets. Historically the 
IMI Pension Fund offered final salary benefits to UK employees until it closed to 
new entrants in 2005 and to future accrual on 31 December 2010. In December 
2014 winding-up procedures commenced and those members who were 
not eligible or did not take up the offer of a single cash lump sum transferred 
to one of two new Funds (IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund or the IMI 2014 Deferred 
Fund – ‘the UK Funds’). Ongoing pension benefits in the UK are provided via 
the Trustee’s defined contribution plan - The IMI Retirement Savings Plan. All 
UK pension assets are run on behalf of the Trustee by the Board of the IMI 
Common Investment Fund.
The Trustee has determined an investment objective to achieve, over time, a 
position of self-sufficiency, defined using a discount rate of gilts + 0.25% and  
at the March 2015 valuation the UK Funds were 91.5% funded on this level. 
Asset allocation
The Trustee has, over recent valuations, continued to reduce asset volatility and 
sensitivity to UK interest rates, inflation and foreign currencies. The Trustee has 
been able to do this due to asset outperformance and significant contributions 
from IMI (£173m from 2011-2014). It has been agreed as part of the 2015 
Valuation that the percentage of external assets categorised as Fixed Income 
will be gradually increased in 2016 towards:
      
IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund    100%
IMI 2014 Deferred Fund    84%
As at 31 December 2015 the two UK Funds were, in total, 62% (2014: 64%) 
hedged against interest rates and 81% (2014: 70%) hedged against UK  
inflation on the Trustee’s self-sufficiency basis. 
Liability management
As discussed above, in December 2014 over 2,500 members (£25.2m of 
payments) accepted either minimal commutation payments or winding-up lump 
sums as full settlement of their pension. A further trivial commutation exercise 
was carried out in summer 2015 with a further £10.1m of settlements resulting 
in a settlement gain of £0.2m (see section 2.2.3). It is anticipated that further 
exercises to manage the Trustee’s liabilities will be carried out in 2016. 
Contributions
The recovery plan from the 2011 valuation agreed annual contributions of 
£16.8m until 2016. The Trustee agreed, as part of the 2015 valuation, the 
payments for 2015 and 2016 were not to be paid and instead a contingent 
contribution plan was agreed for the IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund. The amount  
of contributions due, if any, will depend on asset performance over the next 
three triennial valuations with contributions payable where asset returns are  
less than 1.5% over gilts. The maximum amounts payable, where asset  
returns are less than or equal to 0.7% over gilts would be:
£13m    due 30 June 2019
£12m    due 30 June 2022
£12m    due 30 June 2025
4.5.2.2  
Overseas pension funds 
In September 2015 liabilities relating to all pensions in payment in Switzerland 
were settled via an insurance contract with Patrimonia (this related to two 
autonomous plans). Payments of £40.3m were made to settle £45.1m of 
liabilities resulting in a settlement gain of £4.8m. Following the commencement 
of a restructuring exercise in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m  
was realised.
In the US, termination proceeds commenced for the IMI Americas inc and 
CCI inc pension plans and all liabilities were settled via lump sum payments or 
insurance contracts. In total £47.5m of payments were made to settle £48.1m 
of liabilities resulting in a settlement gain of £0.6m in 2015. 
Following the deduction of fees of £0.7m associated with these settlements,  
all three of these events led to the special pension events which are classified  
as exceptional items (see section 2.2.3).
4.5.3  
Specific effect on financial statements 
The corresponding entries for increases and decreases in the net pension  
deficit reported in the balance sheet are reflected as follows: 
•  Cash flow statement: When the Group makes cash contributions to fund 
the deficit they are reflected in the cash flow statement and reduce the net 
deficit/increase the net surplus. 
•  Income statement: Movements in the overall net pension deficit are 
recognised in the income statement when they relate to changes in the 
overall pension promise, due to either an additional period of service (known 
as ‘current service cost’), changes to pension terms in the scheme rules 
(known as ‘past service cost’), or closure of all or part of a scheme (known as 
‘settlements and curtailments’). The interest charge/income on the net deficit/
surplus position is also recognised in the income statement.
•  Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’): Movements in the overall net 
pension deficit are recognised through OCI when they relate to changes in 
actuarial assumptions or the difference (‘experience gain or loss’) between 
previous assumptions and actual results. 
The table below reconciles the movement in the UK and overseas defined 
benefit surplus/(obligation) between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015.
      UK Overseas Total 
      £m £m £m
Net defined benefit surplus/(obligation)  
at 1 January 2015  60.1  (94.8) (34.7)
Movement recognised in:    
  Income statement  2.7  2.9  5.6 
  OCI  25.9  1.9  27.8 
  Cash flow statement   -  9.7  9.7 
Acquisitions  -  (4.0) (4.0)
Net defined benefit surplus/(obligation)  
at 31 December 2015  88.7  (84.3) 4.4  118 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.5.3.1 
Cash flow impacts 
             
  2015  2014 
      UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts from employees       -  2.8   2.8  -  3.1  3.1 
Amounts from employers      -  5.2   5.2  70.0  4.4  74.4 
Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group      -   4.5   4.5   -  22.2   22.2 
Total       -   12.5   12.5  70.0  29.7  99.7 
The expected contributions to the defined benefit arrangements in 2016 are £2.2m of normal employer contributions and £2.2m of normal employee contributions, 
both in relation to overseas pension funds. 
4.5.3.2 
Other comprehensive income
Movements in pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from  
the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised in equity via other comprehensive income. These movements are analysed below: 
   2015  2014 
    Overseas Overseas   Overseas Overseas 
    post non-post   post non-post 
   UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total 
   £m  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Change in discount rate   28.2  2.8  -  31.0  (170.1) (41.3) -  (211.4)
Change in inflation    -  0.4  -  0.4  64.5  0.5  -  65.0 
Change in other assumptions   (8.0) 0.9  -  (7.1) 6.4  (3.1) -  3.3 
Actuarial experience    31.6  (2.6) -  29.0  12.1  1.0  -  13.1 
Asset experience   (25.9) 0.5  -  (25.4) 136.9  9.5  -  146.4 
Actuarial gains/(losses) in the year   25.9  2.0  -  27.9  49.8  (33.4) -  16.4 
Change in the asset ceiling   -  (0.1) -  (0.1) -  0.2  -  0.2 
Exchange gains/(losses)   -  0.1  (0.1) -  -  3.9  (0.1) 3.8 
Gains/(losses) recognised through equity  25.9  2.0  (0.1) 27.8  49.8  (29.3) (0.1) 20.4 
                   
IMI takes advice from independent actuaries regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit 
obligations. These assumptions include the discount rate applied to the assets and liabilities, the life expectancy of the members, their expected salary and  
pension increases and inflation. The assumptions used for this purpose in these financial statements are summarised below:
           Weighted Averages
   31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013
        UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas 
     % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Inflation - RPI     3.1  n/a 3.1  n/a 3.5  n/a
Inflation - CPI     2.1  1.5  2.1  1.7  2.5  1.8 
Discount rate     3.7  1.7  3.6  2.1  4.5  3.3 
Expected salary increases     2.5  1.7  n/a 2.2  n/a 2.3 
Rate of pension increases     3.1  0.4  3.1  0.3  3.5  0.5  119 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
    
      2015  2014   2013  
      Years  Years  Years
Life expectancy at age 65 (UK Funds only) 
Current male pensioners      21.1   21.2   21.0 
Current female pensioners      24.0   24.0   23.9 
Future male pensioners      23.2   23.0   22.8 
Future female pensioners      26.3   26.0   25.9 
The mortality assumptions used for the UK Funds above reflect its scheme specific experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time.  
The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2014, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2015  
and 2014 reflect the results of this review. 
The table below left illustrates how the UK Funds’ net pension surplus would decrease (excluding the impact of inflation rate and interest rate hedging),  
as at 31 December 2015, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key assumptions above. 
The table below right shows how the net pension deficit for IMI’s non-UK plans would increase, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key  
assumptions above.
4.5.3.3 
Income statement
In accordance with IAS19, pension costs recorded through the income statement primarily represent the increase in the defined benefit obligation based on  
employee service during the year and the interest on the net liability or surplus for defined benefit obligations in respect of employee service in previous years.  
The table below shows the total cost reported in the income statement in respect of pension obligations and therefore also includes the cost of DC schemes. 
   2015  2014 
    Overseas Overseas   Overseas Overseas 
    post non-post   post non-post 
   UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total 
   £m  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost   -  5.0  0.9  5.9  -  4.1  0.8  4.9 
Past service credit   -  -  -  -  -  (0.1) -  (0.1)
Settlement/curtailment   (0.2) (9.7) 0.1  (9.8) (3.5) (4.5) -  (8.0)
Recognition of (gains)/losses   -  -  (1.5) (1.5) -  -  1.0  1.0 
DC employer contributions   3.5  4.1  -  7.6  3.4  5.4  -  8.8 
Pension (income)/expense - operating costs  3.3  (0.6) (0.5) 2.2  (0.1) 4.9  1.8  6.6 
Interest on DBO   43.8  4.1  0.4  48.3  52.5  6.7  0.5  59.7 
Interest on assets   (46.3) (2.2) -  (48.5) (52.4) (4.2) -  (56.6)
Interest (income)/expense - financing costs   (2.5) 1.9  0.4  (0.2) 0.1  2.5  0.5  3.1 
                   
During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure to defined benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, buy-outs  
and mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US. These exercises resulted in a settlement gain of £5.6m. Following the commencement of a restructuring exercise  
in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m was realised. Fees of £0.7m were incurred as part of these settlements resulting in a net settlement gain of £9.1m in  
the income statement. 
UK
Discount rate 0.1% pa lower     £16.1m
Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher*   £10.8m
Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65    £37.7m
10% fall in non-bond-like assets**    £48.2m
Overseas
Discount rate 0.1% pa lower     £2.2m
Salary increases 0.1% higher     £0.4m
Increase of one year in life expectancy at age 65   £3.3m
In each case all other assumptions are unchanged.
* This is an in-payment pension increase sensitivity. 
**  Fund assets excluding cash, bonds, insurance policies and the Funds’ interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. 120 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.5.4 
Overall reconciliation of changes in the net surplus/(liability) for defined benefit obligations
   2015  2014 
      Net defined    Net defined 
   Defined   benefit Defined   benefit 
   benefit  Asset asset/ benefit  Asset asset/ 
   obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) 
   £m  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Brought forward at start of year     (1,510.4)  1,475.8   (0.1)  (34.7)  (1,450.2)  1,292.6   (0.3) (157.9)
Current service cost     (5.9) -  -   (5.9)  (4.9) -  -  (4.9)
Past service cost   -  -  -  -   0.1  -  -   0.1 
Settlement/curtailment    108.2   (98.4) -   9.8   33.0   (25.0) -   8.0 
Net interest (cost)/income on net defined benefit  
(liability)/asset    (48.3)  48.5  -   0.2   (59.7)  56.6  -  (3.1)
Immediate recognition of gains/(losses)     1.5  -  -   1.5   (1.0) -  -  (1.0)
Total credited/(charged) to income statement   55.5   (49.9) -   5.6   (32.5)  31.6  -  (0.9)
Actuarial gain due to experience     29.0  -  -   29.0   13.1  -  -   13.1 
Actuarial gain/(loss) due to financial assumption changes   23.7  -  -   23.7   (146.4) -  -  (146.4)
Actuarial gain due to demographic assumption changes    0.6  -  -   0.6   3.3  -  -   3.3 
Return on plan assets* (lower)/greater than discount rate   -   (25.4) -   (25.4) -   146.4  -   146.4 
Change in effect of asset ceiling   -  -   (0.1)  (0.1) -  -   0.2   0.2 
Total remeasurements recognised in other  
comprehensive income    53.3   (25.4)  (0.1)  27.8   (130.0)  146.4   0.2   16.6 
Employer contributions   -   5.2  -   5.2  -   74.4  -   74.4 
Employee contributions    (2.8)  2.8  -  -   (3.1)  3.1  -  - 
Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group   4.5  -  -   4.5   22.2  -  -   22.2 
Benefits paid from plan assets    68.0   (68.0) -  -   65.0   (65.0) -  - 
Net cash outflow/(inflow)    69.7   (60.0) -   9.7   84.1   12.5  -   96.6 
Acquisitions    (4.0) -  -   (4.0)  11.0   (3.9) -   7.1 
Changes in exchange rates    (5.8)  5.8  -  -   7.2   (3.4) -   3.8 
Total other movements     (9.8)  5.8  -   (4.0)  18.2   (7.3) -   10.9 
Carried forward at end of year    (1,341.7)  1,346.3   (0.2)  4.4   (1,510.4)  1,475.8   (0.1) (34.7)
* Net of asset management costs 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.6 
Share capital
  The ordinary shareholders of the Group own the Company. This section shows how the total number of ordinary shares in issue has changed during the  
year and how many of these ordinary shares are held as treasury shares or in Employee Benefit Trusts, to be used to satisfy share options and awards to 
directors and employees of the Company, as part of employee share ownership programmes. This section also sets out the dividends paid or proposed to  
be paid to shareholders. 
4.6.1 
Number and value of shares
  2015 2014 
   Ordinary  Ordinary Ordinary   Deferred 
   Shares  Shares Shares ‘B’ Shares ‘C’ Shares shares 
   28 4/7p per  25p per  28 4/7p per 200p per 0.001p per 0.001p per  
   share  share share share share share
   Number (m) Value (£m) Number (m)  Number (m)  Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Value (£m)
In issue at the start of the year   286.0  81.7  341.0   -   -   -   -  85.3 
Share cancellations    -   -  (14.6)  -   -   -   -  (3.7)
Share consolidation    -   -  (326.4) 285.6   -   -   -   - 
Issued to satisfy employee share schemes   0.2  0.1   -  0.4   -   -   -  0.1 
Issue of ‘B’ shares - immediate capital option   -   -   -   -  75.9   -   -  151.9 
Issue of ‘B’ shares - deferred capital option    -   -   -   -  5.5   -   -  10.9 
Redemption of ‘B’ shares at nominal value    -   -   -   -  (81.4)  -   -  (162.8)
Issue of ‘C’ shares - income option    -   -   -   -   -  228.7   -   - 
Dividend paid on ‘C’ shares    -   -   -   -   -  (228.7) 228.7   - 
Cancellation of deferred shares    -   -   -   -   -   -  (228.7)  - 
In issue at the end of the year   286.2  81.8   -  286.0   -   -   -  81.7 
All issued share capital at 31 December 2015 is fully paid and conveys the same rights. 
Share consolidation          
The ‘B’ and ‘C’ share scheme in the prior year was accompanied by a share consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s 
share price after the return of capital is broadly equivalent to the share price prior to the return of capital, which ensures that targets and prices in the Group’s 
various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate. 122 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.6.2 
Share movements in the year
Movements in shares due to share issues and purchases during the year were as follows:  
  
    Number of ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each (million)
        Employee  
       Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total
In issue at 31 December 2014       1.7  14.3  270.0  286.0 
New issues to satisfy employee share scheme awards       -   -  0.2  0.2 
Shares allocated under employee share schemes       (0.8)  -  0.8   - 
At 31 December 2015       0.9  14.3  271.0  286.2 
 
During the year 0.2m (2014: 0.4m) shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £0.9m (2014: £1.8m). 
Employee Benefit Trust
The Employee Benefit Trust made market purchases of a total of nil (2014: 2.9m) shares with an aggregate market value of nil (2014: £40.0m) and a nominal value 
of nil (2014: £0.8m). Associated transaction costs amounted to nil (2014: nil).
Share options exercised in 2015 were settled using the shares in the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust. In 2015 0.8m (2014: 2.8m) shares were issued for cash of 
£2.3m (2014: £9.3m).
Of the 15.2m (2014: 16.0m) shares held within retained earnings, 0.9m (2014: 1.7m) shares with an aggregate market value of £8.0m (2014: £21.5m) are held in 
trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. 
4.6.3 
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income  
tax consequences.
          2015 2014 
         £m £m
Current year final dividend - 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 24.0p)  66.4 64.9
  
The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year:
     
          2015 2014 
         £m £m
Prior year final dividend paid - 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 22.5p)      64.9  60.6 
Current year interim dividend paid - 13.9p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 13.6p)     37.6  36.7 
           102.5  97.3  123 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.7 
Share-based payments
  The Group uses share option schemes to reward and retain its employees. The estimated cost of awarding these share options is charged to the income 
statement over the period that the Group benefits from the employees’ services. This cost is then added back to retained earnings, to reflect that there is no 
overall impact on the Group’s balance sheet until the shares are issued to the employees when the options are exercised. 
  The individual share option schemes, the number of options outstanding under each of them, the estimated cost of these options recognised in the income 
statement and the assumptions used in arriving at this estimated cost are described in this section.
4.7.1 
Outstanding share options
At 31 December 2015, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to, but not yet exercised by, participants of IMI share option schemes as follows:
      Date of Number 
     grant of shares Price  Dates from which exercisable
IMI Sharesave Scheme     06.04.10  912  510.92p  01.08.15
       06.04.11  18,122  849.02p  01.08.16
       10.04.12  40,216  890.01p  01.08.15 or 01.08.17
       05.04.13  45,247  1196.50p  01.08.16 or 01.08.18
       06.05.14  40,944  1384.02p  01.08.17 or 01.08.19
       05.06.15  212,485  1075.32p  01.08.18 or 01.08.20
         357,926    
Global Employee Share Purchase Plans     19.12.11  22,255  849.02p  01.08.14 or 01.08.16
       10.04.12  1,682  890.01p  01.08.15 or 01.08.17
       26.08.14  25,165  1225.00p  01.08.16
       01.09.15  63,038  911.52p  01.09.17
         112,140    
IMI Incentive Plan     07.05.15  781,784   -  07.05.17 or 07.05.18
         781,784    
IMI Share Option Plan     03.09.09  7,989  440.93p  03.09.12
       22.03.10  24,500  645.00p  22.03.13
       23.03.11  246,840  971.83p  23.03.14
       04.05.12  509,400  980.67p  04.05.15
       27.11.12  14,400  1007.33p  27.11.15
       23.03.13  474,870  1322.70p  23.03.16
       10.05.13  10,000  1294.33p  10.05.16
       22.10.13  74,000  1518.33p  22.10.16
       11.03.14  475,913  1467.00p  11.03.17
         1,837,912    
IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share Plan)  03.04.06  2,454   -  03.04.09
       05.04.07  2,146   -  29.03.10
       04.04.08  4,500   -  04.04.11
       10.03.09  40,705   -  10.03.12
       12.03.13  102,380  -  12.03.16
       22.10.13  98,792  -  22.10.16
       11.03.14  146,688  -  11.03.17
         397,665    
Share Matching Plan     22.03.10  135,549  -  22.03.13
       28.03.11  100,791  -  28.03.14
       10.05.12  366,757  -  10.05.15
       12.03.13  473,807  -  12.03.16
       01.04.14  335,465  -  01.04.17
         1,412,369    
Total      4,899,796 124 IMI plc
4.7.2 
Schemes under which options  
are outstanding 
The options in the above table relate to the following share-based  
payment schemes:
IMI Sharesave Scheme (‘SAYE’)
This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including 
the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a 
discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject 
to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to 
use their own money to purchase IMI shares. SAYE options may be exercised 
within six months of the date they first become exercisable. 
Global Employee Share Purchase Plans (‘GESPP’) 
These plans were introduced in 2011 for the US and Germany. The German 
and US GESPP’s offer the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a fixed price at 
a future date. The German GESPP mirrors the UK Sharesave scheme, with a 
minimum/maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of three to 
five years. The US GESPP also operates in a similar way to the UK Sharesave 
Scheme, with a minimum/maximum savings limit per month, but the contract 
duration is for a fixed period of two years and different taxation conditions apply 
for the exercise period. No further awards are intended to be granted under the 
German GESPP .
IMI Share Option Plan (‘SOP’) 
Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and 
certain other employees under the SOP . These awards are not subject to 
performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period. The 
purpose of the SOP is to give selected IMI employees (who are not executive 
directors of the Company) the opportunity to share in the benefits of share price 
growth and to increase their IMI shareholding.
IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share 
Plan (‘PSP’))
Awards have been granted to the Company’s executive directors and selected 
senior managers within the Group. Awards have been granted subject to 
stretching performance targets, the nature of which differs depending upon  
the year in which the award was granted. No further awards can be granted 
under the PSP .
4.7.3 
Other share-based payment arrangements 
The Group also operates the following employee share plans:
Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) 
The delivery of the executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual 
bonuses is governed by the individual’s achievement of a Share Ownership 
Guideline (‘SOG’). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary 
as IMI shares and, if achieved, any bonus is paid in cash. The SMP has been 
operated on the basis that if the SOG is not achieved a proportion of any annual 
bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares 
under the SMP . This mandated investment (if the SOG is not achieved) has 
been matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%. These matching shares 
can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period  
are met.
Qualifying employees have also been able to elect voluntarily to defer all or part 
of the remainder of their bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum 
of 100% of their annual bonus opportunity. Additional shares, in the form of 
a matching award, may be earned (up to a maximum of 200% of the ‘gross 
equivalent’ number of shares invested in the SMP) if performance conditions 
over the three year vesting period are met.
The performance measures for SMP matching awards differ depending upon 
the year in which the award was granted. No further awards can be granted 
under the SMP . Refer to the Remuneration Report for information on the 
proposed new schemes.
Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) 
The SIP is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including 
the executive directors. This scheme covers two separate opportunities for 
employees to share in IMI’s success as follows:
•  Partnership shares – allow employees to invest up to the statutory maximum 
from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares.
•  Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to the 
statutory maximum.
Shares acquired or awarded under the SIP are not subject to performance 
conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their 
shareholdings with the Company.
The IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’)
In light of the expiry in 2015 of both the PSP and SMP , the IIP was introduced 
to act as the Company’s sole senior executive long-term incentive plan. The 
IIP acts as an umbrella plan which allows the Company to grant different types 
of award to different employee groups in an efficient way. The IIP is to be used 
annually to grant ‘Performance Share Awards’ in respect of ordinary shares 
to the executive directors and other members of senior management subject 
to performance conditions. The IIP will also be used annually to grant ‘Bonus 
Share Awards’ below board level. The IIP also gives the Company the ability 
to grant ‘Restricted Stock Unit Awards’ and ‘Share Options’. It is currently 
intended that Restricted Stock Unit Awards and share options will only be 
granted in response to specific business requirements.
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4.7.4 
Options granted during the year 
 
     Number of Weighted 
     options average Normal 
     granted option exercisable 
         (thousand) price date
SAYE   
  2014   103  1384p 2017-2019
  2015   227  1075p 2018-2020
GESPP   
  2014   33  1225p 2016 
  2015   66  912p 2017 
SOP   
  2014    594  1467p 2017 
  2015   - - - 
 
       Number of 
       options Normal 
       granted exercisable 
           (thousand) date
PSP    
  2014     163  2017 
  2015     - - 
SMP  
  2014      396  2017 
  2015    - - 
IIP  
  2014      -  - 
  2015    783  2017-2018 
4.7.5 
Movement in outstanding options in the year
        Options  
       granted at  
      Options not granted at nil cost
 (1)
 nil cost
 (2)
  Total
      Number of  Weighted Number of Number of 
      options Range of average options options 
       (thousand) option prices option price (thousand) (thousand)
Outstanding at 1 January 2014       4,266  201-1518p 966p  4,157   8,423
Exercisable at 1 January 2014       259  358-645p 499p  1,255   1,514 
Granted       730  1225-1467p 1444p  559   1,289 
Exercised       1,440  201-1384p 780p  1,553   2,993 
Lapsed       854  201-1518p 1087p  306   1,160 
Outstanding at 31 December 2014       2,702  201-1518p 1157p  2,857   5,559 
Exercisable at 31 December 2014        368  201-972p 862p  508   876 
Granted       293  912-1075p 1038p  783   1,076 
Exercised       382  201-1384p 858p  487   869 
Lapsed       305  201-1467p 1239p  561   866 
Outstanding at 31 December 2015      2,308  441-1518p 1180p 2,592   4,900 
Exercisable at 31 December 2015      814  441-1007p 961p  653   1,467 
                 
(1)  
Options not granted at nil cost include options granted under the following schemes: IMI Sharesave Scheme, Global Employee Share Purchase Plans,  
IMI Share Option Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme.
(2)  
Options granted at nil cost are those granted under the Performance Share Plan, Share Matching Plan and IMI Incentive Plan. 126 IMI plc
SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS
Continued
4.7.6 
Share-based payment charge for the year 
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments 
was £1.1m (2014: £4.4m) which comprises a charge of £12.9m (2014: £14.4m) 
for the year offset by a credit of £11.8m (2014: £10.0m) in respect of lapses. 
£3.5m (2014: £4.9m) of the total charge and £4.2m (2014: £3.3m) of the total 
credit is in respect of options granted to directors.
4.7.7 
Share-based payment valuation 
methodology
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are 
measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a 
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2015 
included a dividend yield of 3.4% (2014: 2.8%), expected share price volatility 
of 22% (2014: 31%), a weighted average expected life of 3.5 years (2014: 
3.5 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 0.6% (2014: 1.1%). The 
expected volatility is wholly based on the historical volatility (calculated based 
on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any 
expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
4.7.8  
Other share-based payment disclosures 
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options 
outstanding as at 31 December 2015 is 6.87 years (2014: 7.24 years) and  
the weighted average fair value of share options granted in the year at their 
grant date was £9.15 (2014: £8.03).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options 
exercised during the year was £11.90 (2014: £14.68).
4.8  
Non-controlling interests
  Non-controlling interests are recorded as reductions from the income and 
equity recorded in the Group’s financial statements. In accordance with IFRS, 
these arise because if the Group controls an operation, it accounts for that 
operation as if the Group were the only party holding an interest in it, but in 
spite of this control, when other parties have an interest in the operation,  
that interest should be reflected. 
  The deduction from income and equity therefore reflects the reduction in  
the Group’s interest resulting from the third party’s interest.
      Shanghai 
      CCI SLP Total 
      £m £m £m
Non-controlling interests as at  
1 January 2015  2.5  42.3  44.8 
Profit for the year attributable to  
non-controlling interests   (0.4) 2.8  2.4 
Income earned by partnership   (4.4) (4.4)
2015 movement in  
non-controlling interest  (0.4) (1.6) (2.0)
Non-controlling interest as  
at 31 December 2015  2.1  40.7  42.8 
       
The non-controlling interest denoted Shanghai CCI in the above table 
represents the 30% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of Shanghai  
CCI Power Control Equipment Co Limited held by Shanghai Power Station 
Auxiliary Equipment Works Co Limited.
The non-controlling interest denoted SLP relates to an interest in the IMI 
Scottish Limited Partnership which is held jointly by the Funds and provides  
the Funds with a conditional entitlement to receive income of £4.4m per annum 
unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Funds are  
fully funded. 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES
5.1  
Contingent liabilities 
  A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for 
recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding  
its outcome.
Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of 
business and other items amounted to £161m (2014: £144m).
5.2  
Related party transactions
  Related parties are solely the key management personnel. The Board is 
considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. 
       2015 2014 
       £m £m
Short-term employee benefits*   4.6  5.1 
Share-based payments**   (0.7) 1.6 
Total   3.9  6.7 
     
*  Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers’ social 
contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for  
the year.
**  For details of the shared based payment (credit)/charge for key management 
personnel, see section 4.7.6.
There are no other related party transactions.
5.3  
Subsequent events
  Events that occur in the period between 31 December and the date of 
approval of the Annual Report can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting 
depending on whether the condition existed at 31 December. If the event is an 
adjusting event, then an adjustment to the results is made. If a non-adjusting 
event after the year end is material, non-disclosure could influence decisions 
that readers of the financial statements make. Accordingly, for each material 
non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose the nature of the 
event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an 
estimate cannot be made.
There were no adjusting or non-adjusting subsequent events after the balance 
sheet date of 31 December 2015.
5.4  
Significant accounting policies
A. Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc  
and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December.  
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as associates  
or joint ventures as at 31 December 2015.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on 
which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date 
that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is 
achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable 
or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The 
financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent 
company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intragroup balances 
and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, 
is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a 
subsidiary, it:
•  derecognises the assets (including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary)  
and liabilities of the subsidiary;
• derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest;
• derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity;
• recognises the fair value of the consideration received;
• recognises the fair value of any investment retained;
• recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; and
•  reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised  
where applicable.
Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly 
or indirectly, to the parent company and the UK Funds’ interest in the IMI Scottish 
Limited Partnership (‘the Partnership’). Non-controlling interests are presented 
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable 
to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are proportionally attributed  
to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
B. Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,  
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
i. Judgements, estimates and assumptions
The key judgements and assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are described below. The Group bases 
its assumptions and estimates on information available when the consolidated 
financial statements are prepared. Market changes or circumstances arising 
beyond the control of the Group are reflected in the assumptions when they 
occur. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which 
the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit 
exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs 
to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on a discounted cash flow  128 IMI plc
model. Cash flows are derived from the Group’s long-term forecasts for the 
next three to five years. The principal assumptions in these calculations are the 
long-term growth rates and the discount rate applied to forecast cash flows in 
addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves. Further information  
on this process and the assets affected is included in section 3.2.
Acquired businesses
The Group has over the years acquired a number of businesses. IFRS3 
‘Business Combinations’ requires the acquired assets to be recognised at their 
fair value at the acquisition date. The valuation of these acquired assets involves 
the use of estimates and assumptions, in particular with respect to the valuation 
of acquired intangibles for which there are significant unobservable inputs.
Disposed businesses
The Group has over the years disposed of a number of businesses. The sale 
agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases,  
the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, 
sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts 
reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.  
These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised  
where necessary.
Share-based payments
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by 
reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are 
granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires 
determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on 
the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination 
of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected  
life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions. 
These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for share-
based payment transactions are disclosed in section 4.7.
Taxes
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, 
changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given 
the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature 
and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the 
actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, 
could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income and expense already 
recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for 
possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries 
in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, 
such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax 
regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. Such differences 
of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions 
prevailing in the respective domicile of the Group companies.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be 
utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount 
of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and 
the level of future taxable profits.
Trading provisions
The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its products 
are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and to customer 
specifications, there will always be a risk of products requiring modification, which 
can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete inventory, collection risk 
regarding receivables and other trading provisions. Provisions are held against 
these risks, which are estimated based on past experience of claims and by 
measuring the likely use of inventory in the future against past usage. The degree 
of dependence on future events makes these estimates inherently subjective.
Employee benefits
The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and other post-
employment benefits are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual 
developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, 
inflation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. 
These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis thereon, are included  
in section 4.5. Due to the complexity of the valuation and its long-term nature,  
a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
In particular, although only constituting a minor proportion of the assets, 
the valuation of the UK Funds’ interests in the Scottish Limited Partnership 
is a highly subjective area because their valuation depends on an actuarial 
assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, 
taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either 
cease in the event that the two UK Pension Funds both became fully funded or 
become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders.
Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership (‘SLP’) and inclusion 
of the UK Pension Funds’ interests in this special purpose entity as a 
non-controlling interest
In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund 
of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited 
Partnership (‘SLP’) , an entity controlled by the Group, which conferred upon 
the Fund conditional rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, 
or until the Fund becomes fully funded. One of the judgements involved in this 
issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined 
by SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’, and whether, in applying 
this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated. It was determined that 
the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and 
furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was 
determined that consolidation was appropriate. The Partnership Agreement 
includes a clause under which the payments in the year are deferred in the 
event that the Group has not paid a dividend in the preceding year and 
therefore, because the Group has the ability to defer these payments indefinitely 
and is in control of the circumstances under which the arrangement can be 
terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and 
therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32. As such the Pension Funds’ 
interests in this SLP have been recorded as non-controlling interests, as a 
component of equity. During the prior year the IMI Pension Fund commenced 
winding up procedures and the relevant liabilities were transferred to one of two 
new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund (together 
‘The Funds’). The interest in the SLP is now held jointly by the Funds.
Development costs
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set 
out in IAS38: Intangible Assets. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on 
management’s judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility 
of the asset, and only when a product development project has reached a 
point where such determinations can be made. In testing these assets for 
impairment, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future 
cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected 
period of benefits. Further detail is provided in section 3.2.
C. Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured. 
The nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group 
enters means that:
•  the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks 
and rewards to the customer. Where such discrete elements are present, 
revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the 
sale of goods.
•  the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the total 
contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis. Where 
this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Group’s revenue is 
recognised on a sale of goods basis.
SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES
Continued 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue  
earned by the Group are set out below:
i. Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net 
of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable 
measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the 
consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding 
associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products 
sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under 
internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as 
revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer 
risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for 
the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are 
generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
ii. Rendering of services
As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually 
insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided  
on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the  
service is complete.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in 
proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date. 
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement 
with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date 
in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. Revenue recognition 
commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured. 
Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion 
on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which 
case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a 
significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised 
separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage 
of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality 
of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a 
construction contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of 
goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
iii. Construction contracts
As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements 
separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. However, where 
such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is 
recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference 
to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in 
comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in 
revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met. Variations 
are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged 
liability for the variation in principle. Claims are included when negotiations 
with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is 
certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included when a contract 
is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards 
triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such 
contracts can be reliably assessed. On all contracts, full provision is made for 
any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
D. Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement and 
excluded in arriving at reported results, where the quantum, the one-off nature or 
volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance.
The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in 
these financial statements:
•  gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative financial 
instruments;
•  restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the 
closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in 
workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities. Non-
significant restructuring costs are not disclosed as exceptional items;
•  special pension events, which comprises settlement gains or losses relating to 
the Group’s defined benefit schemes; 
•  impairment losses recorded against goodwill, intangible assets and other 
operating assets;
• the amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets; 
• gains or losses on disposals of subsidiaries; 
•  costs associated with acquisitions and disposals, which principally represent:
 -  costs payable to the legal and financial advisors assisting with the origination 
and completion of the transactions; and
 -  contingent consideration payments, which because they might be forfeited 
in some of the instances in which the vendors’ post-acquisition employment 
contracts may be terminated, are required by IFRS3 (revised) to be treated 
as remuneration. 
The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items.
E. Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.  
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of non-
controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the 
acquiree’ s identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction 
basis. Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in 
administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets  
the definition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and 
liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions 
as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives 
in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the 
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability 
will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other 
comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity,  
it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the 
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination 
is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’ s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination. Assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations,  
such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration 
arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in 
accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets are 
recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing a present 
obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured. 130 IMI plc
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred 
and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing 
interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash generating units) that are 
expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets 
or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of 
units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the 
entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes  
and shall not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation 
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when 
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of 
in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation 
disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
F. Financial income and expense
Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income 
from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the 
income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it 
accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is 
recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using 
the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and 
losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. 
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in  
the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the 
assumed interest on the difference between employee benefit plan liabilities and 
the employee benefit plan assets.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the 
respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they 
occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs 
in connection with the borrowing of funds.
G. Income tax
Current tax payable/receivable represents the expected tax payable/receivable 
on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in 
respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is 
not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of 
goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing 
of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured 
at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences 
reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively  
enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference  
can be utilised.
H. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Where applicable, on initial classification as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal 
groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale 
are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are 
impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof. 
Once classified as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised. 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents 
a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or 
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale
I. Foreign currencies
i. Foreign currency transactions
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at 
the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in the income 
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
ii. Foreign operations
The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at 
the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to 
year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value 
adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly 
as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date 
of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation 
reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant 
amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
J. Financial instruments and fair value hedging
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable 
transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a 
hedge (see below). Subsequent measurement depends on the designation  
of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39:
•  fixed deposits, principally comprising funds held with banks and other financial 
institutions are classified as ‘available for sale assets’ under IAS39, and held 
at fair value. Short-term borrowings and overdrafts are classified  
as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
•  derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts 
and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are 
classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated 
as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at 
fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when 
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such 
derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net 
financial income or expense.
•  long-term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Where the long-term 
loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded 
as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in 
fair value of the hedge.
•  trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
•  trade payables are stated at cost.
SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES
Continued 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
•  financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when 
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
•  available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses 
being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised 
in the income statement.
K. Other hedging
i.  Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or  
forecast transactions
Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the 
foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary 
asset or liability, financial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet 
the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is 
applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging 
instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction 
for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the deal-contingent 
forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements relating to 
the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, movements 
in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income to the extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the 
effectiveness of the hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount  
to be received and the movement in the fair value of the derivative designated  
as the hedge.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges 
that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with 
the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues 
and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
ii. Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally 
designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in 
the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity via 
other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge is effective. The Group 
assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value 
changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign 
currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated  
as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
L. Intangible assets
Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between 
acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets. Amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in 
accounting policy D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility. 
The accounting policy for goodwill is described in accounting policy E.
i. Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining 
new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the 
income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to 
a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products 
and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be 
reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and 
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention 
to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. 
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy 
‘Impairment’) and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired 
category of intangible assets depending on its origin.
ii. Software development costs
Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host 
computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets at 
cost. Cost comprises the purchase price plus directly attributable costs incurred 
on development of the asset to bring it into use. Following initial recognition, 
software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting 
policy ‘Impairment’) and are included in the other acquired or other non-
acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin.
iii. Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets
Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the 
Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated 
by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group 
from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate. 
Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised  
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iv. Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (other 
than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged on a sum  
of digits basis) over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. 
Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes  
available for use. The estimated useful lives for:
•  capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset (usually a 
maximum of 10 years)
•  software development costs are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)
•  customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)
•  other intangible assets (including order books, brands and software) are the 
life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years)
M. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy 
‘Impairment’).
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components 
having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group 
for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution 
received from customers and are included in plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless 
such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) so as to write down the 
cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives 
within the following ranges:
• Freehold buildings - 25 to 50 years
• Plant and equipment - 3 to 20 years
N. Leased assets
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership are classified as finance leases.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount 
equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) 
and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’).
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate 
under the terms of the lease. The majority of leasing transactions entered into 
by the Group are operating leases. 132 IMI plc
O. Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Due to 
the varying nature of the Group’s operations, both first in, first out (‘FIFO’) and 
weighted average methodologies are employed. In respect of work in progress 
and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the 
appropriate proportion of production overheads.
P. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.  
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of  
the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and  
cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Q.  Impairment
The carrying values of the Group’s non-financial assets other than inventories 
(see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) and deferred tax assets (see accounting 
policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets 
within its cash generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised 
whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit  
exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in  
the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
i. Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than financial assets 
held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash 
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. 
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual 
assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash 
generating unit (based upon the latest Group forecast and extrapolated using 
an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity 
consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth). 
These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. Management believe that this approach, including the use 
of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical 
experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate 
the fair value of investment opportunities. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the 
smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii. Reversals of impairment
As required by IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or 
available for sale financial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets,  
an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications 
that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the 
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’ s carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
R. Dividends
Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are 
approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in 
respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. Interim dividends payable are 
recognised on the date they are declared.
S. Employee benefits
i. Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an 
expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii. Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is 
calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; 
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any 
plan assets are deducted. Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on 
the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that  
the Group recognises restructuring-related costs. The discount rate is the yield 
at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate 
currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations.  
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit  
credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the 
recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service  
costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions  
in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.  
Any deduction made by the tax authorities in the event of a refund of a surplus 
would be regarded by the Group as an income tax.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
iii. Long-term service and other post-employment benefits
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other post-
employment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior 
periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method 
and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets 
is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high 
quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating 
those of the Group’s obligations.
iv. Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits 
as set out in section 4.7. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.  
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any 
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options is 
determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of 
original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
For newly issued shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium 
when the options are exercised.
T. Provisions
Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required  
to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved 
a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either 
commenced or has been announced publicly.
SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES
Continued 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Results and dividend
The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 76. Segmental 
operating profit amounted to £239m (2014: £298m) and profit before taxation 
and discontinued operations amounted to £163m (2014: £246m).
The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p per share (2014: 24.0p per 
share) on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval,  
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on  
the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016. Together with the interim 
dividend of 13.9p per share paid on 18 September 2015, this final dividend will 
bring the total distribution for the year to 38.4p per share (2014: 37.6p per share).
Research and development
See section 2.1.3.3 to the financial statements on page 89.
Shareholders’ funds
Shareholders’ funds increased from £509m at the end of 2014 to £546m  
at 31 December 2015.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s share capital comprised a single class 
of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. Details 
of the share capital of the Company are set out in section 4.6 to the financial 
statements on page 49. The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) programme for 
which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary. The ADRs are traded on the US over-
the-counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR represents two 
ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2015, 925,169 shares were held in an employee trust for use 
in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.3% of the issued 
share capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The independent trustee 
of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder. Participants in option 
schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
During the year, 144,709 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share 
schemes: 136,749 under save as you earn plans and 7,960 under executive 
share plans. Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank 
equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set 
out in the Company’s articles of association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK, from the Company’s website or by writing 
to the Company Secretary. Changes to the articles of association must be 
approved by a special resolution of the shareholders (75% majority required) 
in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. Subject to applicable 
statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company 
may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such resolution or so far as it 
does not make specific provision) as the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s report and 
accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company,  
and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may 
receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition 
a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General 
Meetings. Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and 
the treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions  
of assets.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company  
other than:
•  certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example insider trading laws); and
•  pursuant to the Company’ s share dealing code whereby the directors and certain 
employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Company’ s shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights. 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the 
ordinary shares held in treasury. Electronic and paper proxy appointments and 
voting instructions must be received by the Company’s registrars not later  
than 48 hours (excluding any non-working days) before a general meeting,  
or (subject to the Company’s articles of association) any adjournment thereof.
Own shares acquired by the Company
In 2015 the Company did not make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on  
7 May 2015 to purchase up to 40,774,071 of its ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 5 May 2016 where shareholders will be asked to give a similar 
authority, details of which are contained in the separate Notice of Annual  
General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2015, 14,248,836 ordinary shares (nominal value £4,071,096) 
were held in treasury representing 5.2% of the issued share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) at that time. The maximum number of shares held in treasury 
during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 14,248,836.
Substantial shareholdings
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the 
Company’s website. As at 31 December 2015, the following voting interests in 
the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company:
1
 As of the date in the notification to the Company
Subsequent to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the 
Company was notified that the interests of MFS Investment Management were 
10.17%.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings 
in the Company other than those noted above.
Statement on corporate governance
The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on 
pages 49 to 53 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The Strategic Report is on pages 8 to 43. 
% Held 
1
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited 7.77%
MFS Investment Management 5.04%
Blackrock Inc 5.01%
Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.01%
Legal & General Group plc 3.03% 134 IMI plc
Employment policies
The Group continues to invest in employee involvement at all levels of the 
organisation. Since the global intranet was put in place in 2014, we have had 
over 4 million hits from employees. It has been instrumental in developing cross 
business collaboration and sharing of best practice. To date we have invested 
£1.6m in developing the intranet recognising the importance we place on 
keeping employees informed and connected with Group and individual business 
developments. Each Division has now launched its own Divisional intranet to 
communicate and support business developments specific to its particular needs 
and markets. The Group also continues to publish its cross-divisional newsletter, 
the ‘IMI eye’, bi-annually which features news stories from sites around the globe 
and is distributed to employees and key stakeholders. The Company’s European 
Works Council, which has been in operation since 2003, meets at least once a 
year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group. At the date 
of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of the European Works Council 
comprising 13 employee representatives nominated from among employees 
from each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, with the balance 
being Company appointees. The Group’s financial results and important 
initiatives such as health and safety, training and development, and employee 
engagement are communicated through a number of mechanisms including  
the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and 
the Company’s website and ‘town hall’ meetings. A Global Benefits Review, 
which commenced in early 2015, is underway across the Group to harmonise  
the remuneration for our employees across each country and align to local 
market practice. 
Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward 
package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership. Further details 
of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages  
59 to 71 and in section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 123 to 126.
A number of people initiatives, including development, employee engagement, 
global benefits and diversity are co-ordinated across the Group. These initiatives 
and the Company’s approach to investment in these areas are explained on 
pages 26 to 29.
Our policy on employee diversity and inclusion is to comply with relevant 
legislation in the countries in which we operate and to actively promote our 
diversity goal to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities 
and to reflect the diverse nature of our global business. Every effort is made to 
ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and 
fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, 
succession planning and promotion. Further details of our approach to diversity 
and inclusion are set out in pages 29 and 57 and are incorporated into this 
report by reference.
At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected in the 
composition of our Board; further details of the Board composition along with 
biographies are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Health, safety and the environment
It is Group policy to continuously improve healthy and safe working conditions 
and to always operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
Our carbon reporting statistics indicate that our recent performance in gross 
tonnes of CO 2e has continued to improve: 2012-71,000, 2013-69,000, 2014-
62,500, 2015-61,250. Of the 2015 total, our direct (Scope 1) emissions of CO 2e, 
essentially gas, diesel and fuel oil consumed, amounted to 18,250 tonnes.  
Our indirect (Scope 2) emissions of C0 2e, essentially the emissions generated  
on our behalf to provide our electricity, amounted to 43,000 tonnes.
In addition to gross tonnes of CO 2e, we report CO 2e intensity relative to £million 
sales. There has been a slight deterioration in our CO 2e intensity metric to  
39.5 (tonnes/£m sales) in 2015 (2014: 37.4), largely on account of exchange  
rate movement. On a normalised line-for-line basis however, the IMI carbon 
intensity metric has comfortably achieved our 2015 year-end target of a 7.5% 
reduction over 2012 performance. Using 2015 as our new baseline, we plan  
to continuously improve our emissions performance going forward, building  
on the results from the European Energy Directive audits undertaken in 2015  
and cascading these lessons throughout our non-European facilities.
Our CO 2e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes  
all material emissions across IMI.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year.
Directors
The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given 
on pages 46 and 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference. Roberto 
Quarta resigned as Chairman and Director with effect from the end of the Annual 
General Meeting held on 7 May 2015. Lord Smith of Kelvin was appointed as 
a director on 7 May 2015 and was appointed as Chairman of the Board at the 
end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015. Douglas Hurt and Anita 
Frew retired from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 
May 2015. Daniel Shook became Finance Director Designate on 1 January 2015 
and become Finance Director on 1 March 2015. Isobel Sharp was appointed to 
the Board on 1 September 2015.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in 
the Company’s articles of association. Each new appointee to the Board is 
required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment. In addition, the Company’s articles of association require each 
director to stand for re-election at least once every three years. However, in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), all directors 
wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual 
General Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and all 
directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
which were in place during the financial year. At the date of this Annual Report 
there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the  
costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against 
them, in their capacity as a director, subject always to the limitations set by  
the Companies Act 2006.
Role of the Board
The role of the Board is: 
• to promote the success of the Company;
• be guardians of stakeholders’ interests;
• to set/monitor leadership behaviour and culture;
• to select and appoint the executive management team;
• to provide supportive challenge to the executive management team;
• to approve business plans and strategy;
• to oversee governance, risk and the control environment; and
• to monitor and oversee the businesses and management.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and 
oversees business and management performance. The Board has adopted a 
corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list 
of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees 
and the executive management. Board reserved matters include strategy and 
key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment 
decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in 
writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated 
authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for 
the Chief Executive. The Group has a clear organisational structure and well- 
established reporting and control disciplines. Managers of operating units 
assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running  
day-to-day trading activities. They do this within a framework of clear rules, 
policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of 
proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject  
to regular senior management reviews of performance.
Continued
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Division of responsibilities amongst directors 
Chairman:
• building a well-balanced Board
• chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time
•  ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate  
and decisions
•  promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement  
and challenge around the boardroom table
• setting the tone and high standards of governance practice
• getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief 
Executive, which is reflected in the written corporate governance framework 
approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive 
powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the executive management 
team in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans 
under authority delegated by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to 
an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently 
in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the 
Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in 
accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant 
regulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the 
standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for  
any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense 
and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Chief Executive:
• leadership of the executive management team
• formulating strategy, business plans and budgets
• ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained
• developing organisation structure
• resourcing, talent development and succession plans
Directors’ powers
The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles 
of association of the Company in force from time to time. The directors were 
authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases 
of the Company’s ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its 
Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015 by the passing of new resolutions, 
in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. The current authorities  
will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on  
5 May 2016, at which new authorities will be sought.
Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and 
purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the persons (including the interests of any connected persons) 
who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, 
and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on 
page 70.
Management of conflicts of interest
The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the 
activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website. 
These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board 
of potential conflicts of interest. These procedures apply, inter alia, to external 
directorships and it is the Board’s view that they operated effectively during 2015.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in 
which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly 
may conflict with the interests of the Company. This duty is in addition to the 
duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any 
transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company. If any director 
becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that 
director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the 
articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict. The information is 
recorded in the Company’s register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation  
letter is issued to the relevant director. 
Change of control
The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may 
allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts 
and employee share plans. Other than as referred to in the next paragraph,  
none of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its  
likely impact on the Group as a whole.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Group’s main funding 
agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment 
for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically 
resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Company’s share 
schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and 
employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
Information included in the Strategic Report
All disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions (as required to be 
disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013) are contained on the previous page. Likely future 
developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.4R
Internal control
The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal 
control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the 
Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting 
Council’s September 2014 publication, ‘Guidance on Risk Management,  
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting’.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in 
detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board. 
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings 
of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board. Minimum 
standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and 
monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group. Certified annual reports 
are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance 
with Group financial reporting requirements. The internal audit function, Group 
Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews 
at selected operating units. Additionally, visits to operations are carried out 
by senior Group finance personnel. These internal assurance processes are 
co-ordinated with the activity of the Company’s external auditor.
Listing Rule Detail Page
9.8.4R (1-2)(5-14) Not applicable N/A
9.8.4R (4) Long-term incentive schemes 59 to 71 136 IMI plc
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, 
authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals 
referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their 
materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board 
regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those 
relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental 
issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. 
Compliance and internal audit reports are made available to the Board, the 
Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and 
developments to be monitored. 
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made 
to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement 
proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control 
system. The internal control declaration process introduced in 2014 is now 
fully embedded and is enabling improvement in control through bi-annual self-
assessments from all operating units. Action plans to improve controls as a result 
of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee. 
We are committed to further strengthen the key financial control processes.  
More information in relation to risk is given on page 32 under the heading 
‘Principal Risks and Uncertainties’.
Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the 
effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2015 and up 
to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of 
internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Financial reporting processes
The use of the Group’s accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements 
by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Group’s 
accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately 
reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard 
reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is 
presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Viability statement
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors 
have assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into 
account the Group’s financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual 
Report, the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 32 to 35 and the 
five year business plan reviewed by the Board in September 2015. Based on 
this assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the 
directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company  
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due  
over the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2020. 
The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2020 constitutes 
an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability. Whilst the 
directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer 
timing horizon, the five year period to 31 December 2020 was chosen as it aligns 
with the Company’ s business and strategic planning timing horizon and is a 
sensible period for such an assessment. It is believed this period provides readers 
of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which to assess the 
Company’ s prospects although future outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty.
In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing 
the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity. A summary of these risks can be found on 
pages 32 to 35 of the Annual Report.
The five year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the Company’s 
facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under scenarios where 
its principal risks materialise. The analysis considered both ‘running business’ 
risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as one-off ‘event’ risks 
such as product recalls. The Board also considered the Company’s ability to raise 
capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing actions undertaken to prevent 
occurrence and the potential actions to mitigate the impact of any particular risk.
The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Company’s 
operations. The Company’s wide geographical and sector diversification, and the 
lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business 
interruption. Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company 
is not overly reliant on a few large customers. Our largest customer constitutes 
only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over  
16% of Group revenue. In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces  
our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions. 
Going concern
Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable 
for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on 
a going concern basis. The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43. Principal risks are detailed on pages 32 to 35. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the financial statements. In addition, section 4.4 to the 
financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk. Section 4.5 to the financial statements addresses the management  
of the funding risks of the Group’s employee benefit obligations.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing 
relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across 
different geographic areas and industries. The Group’s forecasts and projections, 
taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate 
that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on 
31 December 2015, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further 
facilities before 25 February 2016. As a consequence, the directors believe that 
the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the 
uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook. Such uncertainties as 
have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose  
of the going concern assessment.
After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Financial Statements.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director 
has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make 
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole 
Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on 5 May 2016 at 10am.  
Notice of the meeting will be published on the Company’s website.
Auditor
Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the 
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea
Company Secretary
25 February 2016
IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275
Continued
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements. 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, 
and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for 
that period. In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
•  state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
•  state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the 
parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that:
•  the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
•  the Annual Report (which includes the Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business  
and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, 
the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
John O’Shea
Company Secretary
25 February 2016 138 IMI plc
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended  
31 December 2015 set out on pages 76 to 151. In our opinion:
•  IMI plc’s Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements 
(the financial statements) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
•  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group  
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: 
Group  Parent Company
Consolidated balance sheet as at  Balance sheet as at 
31 December 2015  31 December 2015
Consolidated income statement for  Statement of changes in 
the year then ended  equity for the year then ended
Consolidated statement of comprehensive  Related notes C1 to C11 to the 
income for the year then ended financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity for the year then ended 
Consolidated cash flow statement  
for the year then ended 
Related notes 1 to 5 to the  
financial statements 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company 
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Overview of our audit approach
Risks impacting audit strategy -  Revenue and profit recognition
      -  Inventory valuation
      -  Valuation of the overall pension scheme 
liabilities
      -  The assessment of the carrying value of 
goodwill and acquired intangible assets
      -  Accounting for the acquisition of  
Bopp & Reuther
Audit scope   -  We performed an audit of the complete 
financial information of 14 entities and audit 
procedures on specific balances for a further 
29 entities.
      -  The entities where we performed full or 
specific audit procedures accounted for 
85% of profit before tax adjusted for non-
recurring items, 66% of revenue and 83%  
of total assets.
Materiality   -  Overall Group materiality of £9.4m which 
represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted 
for non-recurring items.
What has changed   -  The accounting for the acquisition of Bopp 
& Reuther has been included as a risk of 
material misstatement. Bopp & Reuther has 
also been included as a full scope entity. 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the 
audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of 
the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
Revenue and Profit Recognition (£1,557m, PY 
comparative £1,686m)
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); 
Accounting policies (page 128); and section 
2.1.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(page 85)
Revenue recognition is a significant audit risk 
across all divisions within the Group. Specifically 
there is a risk of inappropriate revenue and 
profit recognition if deliveries are recorded 
within the wrong accounting period, contract 
loss provisions are misstated or revenue is not 
accounted for in line with contractual terms.  
The cyclical nature of deliveries within the  
Critical Engineering division’s results in significant 
shipments near the December period end which 
increases the risk of a cut-off error. 
We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing of 
revenue recognition;
We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past 
experience, management’s forecasts and, where possible, external market data;
We obtained support for individually unusual and/or material revenue journals;
We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been 
appropriately recorded in the income statement. We verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of the 
products had been transferred to the customer by: 
•  analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements of 
the contract; confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation; 
•  confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history; and 
•    tracing the costs of the transactions to bills of materials and expenses incurred; 
We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party 
delivery note documentation and customer acceptance.
In respect of the Critical Engineering division we audited management’s assessment of forecast costs to 
complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions against historic experience and future production plans 
to confirm that any contract losses are appropriately recognised.
We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 34 locations 
where revenue is in scope, which represents 66% of the total revenue balance.
We also performed specific procedures over £268m of revenue recognised in the 50 Precision and Hydronic 
divisions’ marketing companies. These companies purchase IMI manufactured products, either directly from 
the manufacturing IMI entity or through the Group’s centralised warehousing, and sell into local markets.  
The specific procedures performed included verifying the occurrence and completeness of a sample of 
sales transactions recognised by the marketing companies through to goods despatch documentation.  
We also test a sample of transactions recognised in these companies to determine that the valuation 
of revenue recognised is consistent with the Group’s transfer pricing policies and the inter-company 
transactions eliminate on consolidation.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee:
Our year-end audit procedures did not identify any concerns regarding revenue or profit recognition in the Group. All transactions tested have been recognised in 
accordance with contractual terms. 140 IMI plc
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
Continued
Risk Our response to the risk
Inventory Valuation (£233m, PY comparative 
£226m)
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); 
Accounting policies (page 132); and section 
3.1.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(page 96)
The valuation of inventory across the Group is 
dependent on establishing appropriate valuation 
controls and physical counting procedures. 
This includes reliance on manual processes. 
Management judgement is applied to formulaic 
calculations for standard costing and excess and 
obsolete inventory provisions. If these judgements 
are not appropriate then this increases the risk 
that inventory is inappropriately stated. 
We carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately;
We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, confirming that the valuation reflected the products’ 
stage of completion including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended;
We tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory valuation by analysing the nature of 
costs being absorbed and verifying the level of costs absorbed based on production data; and
We audited the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory by verifying received 
orders, inspecting approved budgets, considering historical usage and the historical accuracy of 
provisioning and understanding management’s future plans to utilise the inventory.
We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 28 locations 
where inventory is in scope, which represents 81% of the total inventory balance.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee:
Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision. Our audit procedures confirmed the 
variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been correctly calculated.
Risk Our response to the risk
Valuation of the overall pension scheme 
liabilities (£1,342m, PY comparative £1,510m) 
within the net pension asset of £4m
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); 
Accounting policies (page 132); and section  
4.5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(page 115)
The actuarial assumptions used to value the 
UK and overseas pension scheme liabilities 
are judgemental and sensitive. Due to the 
significance of the value of the pension 
obligation, a small change in assumptions  
may result in a material difference to the  
amounts reported. 
The risk has marginally reduced on the valuation 
of pension scheme liabilities reflecting further 
scheme closures in the current year, although the 
UK scheme represents the vast majority of the 
total liability and the assumptions continue to  
be subject to judgement. 
Using external data we benchmarked the key actuarial assumptions, as detailed in section 4.5.3.2 of the 
consolidated financial statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation under IAS 
19(R) to determine that their assumptions were appropriate, met the requirements of IFRS and were in line 
with market practice. 
This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and 
discount rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating 
the independence, qualifications and results of work performed by management’s experts involved in the 
valuation process.
We used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures. 
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee:
The actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the year end liabilities are well within the acceptable range when compared to external benchmarks.  
We consider the valuation of pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate. 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Risk Our response to the risk
Accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & 
Reuther (Consideration of £109m, Goodwill 
and intangibles of £118m). New risk for FY15
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); 
Accounting policies (page 129); and section 3.4 of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 100)
The identification and valuation of intangible 
assets arising on the Bopp & Reuther acquisition 
is considered to be a significant risk for the IMI 
plc group audit. Management has exercised 
significant judgement in determining the 
appropriate fair value adjustments in respect of 
the assets and liabilities acquired. In particular, 
the judgement in determining the fair value and 
estimated useful economic life of intangible assets 
acquired such as customer relationships, the 
order book and the Bopp & Reuther brand. 
We obtained and inspected the key contracts associated with the acquisition, including the sale and purchase 
agreement, to confirm that significant terms and conditions have been appropriately accounted for.
With involvement of EY business valuations specialists, we evaluated management’s determination of the 
fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, and in particular the valuation of intangible assets. This 
included corroborating the key assumptions made by management, such as the useful economic lives, 
discount rates and growth rates applied. These assumptions were also benchmarked against historic  
IMI acquisitions and other transactions in the sector.
We worked with EY tax audit specialists to determine the completeness and accuracy of the current and 
deferred tax balances included in the acquisition balance sheet including the impact on the tax balances  
of the fair value adjustments applied in the acquisition accounting.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee:
We confirmed management had used appropriate valuation techniques to determine the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities acquired.  
Accordingly, we concluded the goodwill and intangibles of £118.1m were correctly recognised.
Risk Our response to the risk
The assessment of the carrying value of 
goodwill and acquired intangible assets 
(£411m, PY comparative £338m)
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); 
Accounting policies (page 129); and section 3.2.2 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 98)
As a consequence of the Group’s growth strategy 
a significant value of goodwill and intangible 
assets has arisen from acquisitions. There is a 
risk that cash generating units (‘CGUs’) may not 
achieve the anticipated business performance 
to support the carrying value of these assets 
leading to an impairment charge that has not 
been recognised by management. Significant 
judgement is required in assessing the future cash 
flows of the CGU, together with the rate at which 
they are discounted.
During 2015, and as a result of changes to the 
operational activities within the Group to integrate 
the activities of acquired business, transfer 
technology and increase the incidence of cross-
selling by its businesses, management have 
redefined the groups of CGUs within the Critical 
engineering division to which goodwill is allocated. 
In particular, some previously separate CGUs have 
been combined to reflect those groups which now 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent 
of the others. These changes led management to 
restructure its internal reporting accordingly. A risk 
exists that the CGUs used in the impairment testing 
are not appropriate. 
We walked through management’s controls in respect of their assessment of the valuation of goodwill  
and acquired intangible assets and determined these to be designed and placed in operation;
We examined management’s methodology, as detailed in section 3.2 of the consolidated financial 
statements, and models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to confirm the 
composition of management’s future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up. 
This included confirming that the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets;
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, management performed an 
impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill allocated. 
For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before an 
impairment conclusion was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring.
In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or low levels of head room we performed 
detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash flows including:
•  corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and 
benchmarking it against comparable organisations; 
•  validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts; and
•  analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash flows  
are reliable based on past experience. 
We considered the appropriateness of the amortisation rates and useful economic lives of intangible assets 
allocated to CGUs on acquisition with reference to their expected usage and future economic inflows. 
We obtained evidence of increased cross-selling within the Critical businesses and interdependencies 
of cash flows within this division. We confirmed the change in internal reporting has occurred and the 
CGUs considered for impairment testing are aligned to this new basis of internal reporting on financial 
performance.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee:
We concurred with management’s conclusion that none of the CGUs are required to be impaired as at 31 December 2015. Based on the change in the way  
in which cash inflows are generated and the changes in the associated internal reporting structure, we consider the CGUs to be appropriate. 142 IMI plc
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
Continued
The scope of our audit 
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 
of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the 
Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We take into account the level of Group revenue and 
operating profit, risk profile (including country risk, risk determined to be 
associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, 
historical knowledge and discussions with management and the level of 
growth in the entity), the number of significant accounts based on performance 
materiality and any other known factors when assessing the level of work to  
be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, 
and to achieve adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the  
financial statements, of the 128 reporting entities of the Group, we selected  
43 entities, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 43 entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial 
information of 14 entities (‘full scope entities’) which were selected based on their 
size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 29 entities (‘specific scope entities’), 
we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we 
considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts  
in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their 
risk profile. 
The reporting entities where we performed audit procedures accounted for 85% 
(2014: 85%) of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 
66% (2014: 65%) of the Group’s revenue and 83% (2014: 82%) of the Group’s 
total assets. 
We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision 
and Hydronic divisions’ marketing companies, which provided additional 
coverage of 17% in respect of the Group’s Revenue.
Excluding full and specific scope entities, there are a further 85 reporting entities 
with average revenues of £6.1m and average profit before tax adjusted for 
non-recurring items of £0.3m. In addition, these locations do not have common 
systems and controls. As a consequence, we consider the likelihood of any 
systematic error arising within this population to be low. Notwithstanding 
this, for the remaining 85 entities we performed other procedures, including 
analytical review and enquiries of management to address the residual risk  
of material misstatement.
The charts to the right illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed  
by our audit teams.
Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - CY / (PY)
Total assets - CY / (PY)
Revenue - CY / (PY)
15% (15%)
Other procedures
17% (18%)
Other procedures
17% (18%)
Other procedures
59% (68%) 
Specific scope entities
63% (56%) 
Full scope entities
17% (17%)
Procedures on  
marketing companies
26% (27%)
Specific scope entities
26% (17%) 
Full scope entities
20% (26%) 
Specific scope entities
40% (38%)
Full scope entities 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Involvement with entity teams
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the 
type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the entities by us, as 
the group audit team, or by entity teams from other EY global network firms 
operating under our instruction. Of the 43 full scope and specific scope entities, 
where the work was performed by entity teams, we determined the appropriate 
level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had 
been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the group 
audit team to the entity teams in China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, 
Mexico, Sweden, Switzerland and the USA. These visits involved meeting 
with our entity team to discuss and direct their audit approach, reviewing 
and understanding the significant audit findings in response to the risk areas 
including revenue, profit recognition and inventory valuation, holding meetings 
with local management, undertaking factory tours and obtaining updates on 
local regulatory matters including tax, pensions and legal. The group audit team 
interacted regularly with the entity teams where appropriate during various 
stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for 
the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional 
procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our 
opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating 
the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the 
aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for 
determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
•  We determined materiality for the Group to be £9.4m (2014: £12.4m), which is 
5% (2014: 5%) of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items. We believe 
that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described in the table, provide us 
with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most 
relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
•  During the course of our audit, we reassessed and reduced materiality 
from preliminary materiality of £10.9m to final materiality of £9.4m following 
a reduction to the forecasted profitability of the Group. This was due to a 
combination of adverse exchange differences, lower profit within the Critical 
Engineering division due to the economic weakness observed in China and 
a weakening in market conditions in Europe affecting the Precision and 
Hydronic Engineering divisions which developed throughout the period. 
     • Profit before tax - £162.7m
     • For the year ended 31 December 2015
     •  Loss on disposals of businesses - £8.4m  
(Note 3.5 to the Financial Statements)
     •  Gain on special pension events - (£9.1m)  
(Note 2.2.3 to the Financial Statements)
     •  Restructuring - £27.1m 
(Note 2.2.2 to the Financial Statements)
 
     •  Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - 
£189.1m (basis for materiality)
     • Materiality - £9.4m (5% of £189.1m)
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set 
at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the 
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
•  On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the 
Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that performance 
materiality was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £4.7m (2014: 
£6.2m). Our objective in adopting this approach was to conclude that undetected 
audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level. 
Audit work at entity locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over 
significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage 
of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each entity 
is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and 
our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity. In the current year,  
the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was £0.45m to 
£1.35m (2014: £0.7m to £1.8m). 
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being 
clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all 
uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.5m (2014: £0.6m), which is set  
at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that,  
in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative 
measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative 
considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us 
in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out 
on page 137, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters  
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report  
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Starting basis
Adjustments
Materiality 144 IMI plc
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC
Continued
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: 
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in 
the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as 
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s 
performance, business model and strategy; and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we 
communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•   adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review:
•   the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 136, and longer-term viability,  
set out on page 136; and
•   the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception:
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the items above.
Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
•   the directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
•   the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
•  the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
•   the directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period 
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Conclusion:
We have nothing to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above.
Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham 
25 February 2016
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 
presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
At 31 December 2015
           2015  2014  
        Note £m  £m 
Fixed assets      
Investments        C5 173.2  173.2 
Current assets   
Debtors        C6 397.3  447.3 
Deferred tax assets        C7 1.9  4.3 
Cash at bank and in hand         11.3  3.4 
           410.5  455.0 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year   
Other creditors        C8 (2.9) (41.2)
Net current assets         407.6  413.8 
Total assets less current liabilities         580.8  587.0 
Net assets         580.8  587.0 
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital        C9 81.8  81.7 
Share premium account        C9 11.8  10.8 
Capital redemption reserve        C9 174.4  174.4 
Profit and loss account        C9 312.8  320.1 
Equity shareholders’ funds         580.8  587.0 
Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Lord Smith of Kelvin 
Chairman 146 IMI plc
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for the year ended 31 December 2015
        Share Share Redemption Retained Parent 
      capital premium reserve earnings equity 
      £m £m £m  £m £m
At 1 January 2014      85.3  171.8  7.9  333.9  598.9 
Retained profit for the year         730.1  730.1 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares         (97.3) (97.3)
Shares issued in the year      0.1  1.8    1.9 
Issue of ‘B’ shares - capital option      151.9  (151.9)   - 
Issue of ‘C’ shares - income option      10.9  (10.9)   - 
Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares      (162.8)  162.8  (162.8) (162.8)
Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares         (457.5) (457.5)
Cancellation of treasury shares      (3.7)  3.7   - 
Share-based payments         4.4  4.4 
Shares acquired for:           
  employee share scheme trust         (30.7) (30.7)
At 31 December 2014      81.7  10.8  174.4  320.1  587.0 
Retained profit for the year         91.8  91.8 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares         (102.5) (102.5)
Shares issued in the year      0.1  1.0    1.1 
Share-based payments         1.1  1.1 
Shares issued by:     
  employee share scheme trust         2.3  2.3 
At 31 December 2015      81.8  11.8  174.4  312.8  580.8 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
C1. Significant accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing  
with items considered material in relation to the financial statements,  
except where otherwise noted below:
Basis of accounting
The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (‘FRS 101’).
The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as 
permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously extant UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented. Transition tables 
showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note C11.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions 
under FRS 101:
a)  the requirements of paragraphs 45 (b) and 46-52 of IFRS2 ‘Share based 
Payment’;
b) the requirements of IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments’;
c) the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’;
d)  the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79(a)
(iv) of IAS1;
e) the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f) and 134-136 of IAS1;
f) the requirements of IAS7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’;
g)  the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 ‘Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’;
h) the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’; and
i)  the requirements in IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related 
party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, 
provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned 
by such a member. Related party transactions with the Company’s key 
management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 
59 to 71 and in section 5.2 on page 127 of the Group financial statements.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for 
income and expenses during the year. However, the nature of estimation means 
that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Foreign currencies
The Company’s functional currency and presentation currency is sterling. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling 
at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date 
and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for 
impairment. The Company’s cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is 
stated at the aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal 
value of the shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies 
Act 2006 applies or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s 
shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account 
taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have 
arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by IAS12 ‘Income Taxes’. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. A 
deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation 
benefits as set out in section 4.7 to the Group financial statements. The fair 
value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options 
is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is 
no net charge recorded in the Company’s financial statements. The recharged 
amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-
market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options at 
the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number 
of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of 
original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share 
premium when the options are exercised.
Treasury shares
The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares 
is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. Consideration 
received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any 
difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share 
premium. If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of 
the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption 
reserve. No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of 
treasury shares.
Dividends 
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability 
at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the 
discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria  
are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
C2. Remuneration of directors
The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and 
options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 
59 to 71 and section 2.1.3 of the Group financial statements.
C3. Staff numbers and costs
The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during 
the year was 32 (2014: 28) all of whom were employed in administrative roles. 
The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit 
schemes in which the assets are held independently. The total net defined 
benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and 
therefore in accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised 
in the Company’s financial statements. Section 4.5 to the Group financial 
statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit schemes.
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148 IMI plc
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued
C4. Dividends            
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
Prior year final dividend paid - 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 22.5p)      64.9  60.6 
Current year interim dividend paid - 13.9p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 13.6p)     37.6  36.7 
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year        102.5  97.3
Dividends paid in the year of £102.5m represent 37.9p per share (2014: 36.1p).
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
Current year final dividend - 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 24.0p)      66.4  64.9
         
Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid. This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends 
differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
C5. Fixed assets - investments
        Subsidiary undertakings
           2015 2014 
          £m  £m 
At 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 cost and net book value      173.2  173.2
         
Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 are shown on pages 152 to 153. 
C6. Debtors
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
Falling due for payment after more than one year:   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings         316.4  334.3
Falling due for payment within one year:   
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings         80.9  113.0 
           397.3  447.3
 
C7. Deferred tax
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:          
Employee benefits and share based payments        1.9  4.3 
Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet        1.9  4.3
  
          £m
Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset:          
At 1 January 2015          4.3 
Deferred tax charge in the profit and loss account         (2.4)
At 31 December 2015          1.9 
It was announced in the Budget of July 2015 that the UK corporate tax rate will reduce to 19% and 18% in 2017 and 2020 respectively. These rates were 
substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to 
reverse, which is mainly 18% (2014: 20%). 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
C8. Other creditors falling due within one year
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings          1.0   39.5 
Other payables          1.9   1.7 
           2.9   41.2
C9. Share capital and reserves
        Share Share Redemption Retained Parent 
      capital premium reserve earnings equity 
      £m £m £m  £m £m
At 1 January 2014      85.3  171.8  7.9  333.9  598.9 
Retained profit for the year         730.1  730.1 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares*         (97.3) (97.3)
Shares issued in the year      0.1  1.8    1.9 
Issue of ‘B’ shares - capital option      151.9  (151.9)   - 
Issue of ‘C’ shares - income option      10.9  (10.9)   - 
Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares      (162.8)  162.8  (162.8) (162.8)
Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares         (457.5) (457.5)
Cancellation of treasury shares      (3.7)  3.7   - 
Share-based payments         4.4  4.4 
Shares acquired for*:           
  employee share scheme trust         (30.7) (30.7)
At 31 December 2014      81.7  10.8  174.4  320.1  587.0 
Retained profit for the year         91.8  91.8 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares*         (102.5) (102.5)
Shares issued in the year      0.1  1.0    1.1 
Share-based payments         1.1  1.1 
Shares issued by*:     
  employee share scheme trust         2.3  2.3 
At 31 December 2015      81.8  11.8  174.4  312.8  580.8 
               
*  Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in section 4.6 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and 
proposed in the year are shown in note C4. 
All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are considered to be distributable reserves.
Share capital     
     
           2015  2014  
         £m £m
Issued and fully paid      
286.2m (2014: 286.0m) ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each        81.8  81.7
C10. Contingencies            
Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £64.4m (2014: £73.5m).
There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to 
be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it 
becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.  150 IMI plc
C11. Transition to FRS 101             
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with previously extant United 
Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (‘UK GAAP’).
Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual financial statements which comply with FRS 101 and the significant accounting policies meeting those 
requirements are described in the relevant notes.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the Company’s date of transition to FRS 
101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption of FRS 101. As such, this note explains the 
principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 prepared under previously extant UK GAAP and its previously 
published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2014
     
              
           FRS 101  
          reclassifications and   
          UK GAAP re-measurements  FRS 101  
         £m £m £m
Fixed assets   
Investments       573.4  (334.3) 239.1 
Current assets   
Debtors       88.0  334.3  422.3 
Deferred tax assets       -  -  - 
Cash at bank and in hand       -  -  - 
         88.0  334.3  422.3 
Creditors:   
amounts falling due within one year   
Bank overdraft       (2.5) -  (2.5)
Borrowings       (19.0) -  (19.0)
Other creditors       (41.0) -  (41.0)
Net current assets       25.5  334.3  359.8 
Total assets less current liabilities       598.9  -  598.9 
Net assets       598.9  -  598.9 
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital       85.3  -  85.3 
Share premium account       171.8  -  171.8 
Capital redemption reserve       7.9  -  7.9 
Profit and loss account       333.9  -  333.9 
Equity shareholders’ funds       598.9  -  598.9
COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2014
     
              
           FRS 101  
          reclassifications and   
          UK GAAP re-measurements  FRS 101  
         £m £m £m
Fixed assets   
Investments       507.5  (334.3) 173.2
Current assets   
Debtors       43.0  404.3  447.3
Deferred tax assets       3.5  0.8  4.3
Cash at bank and in hand       3.4  -  3.4
         49.9  405.1  455.0
Creditors:   
amounts falling due within one year   
Other creditors       (41.2) -  (41.2)
Net current assets       8.7  405.1  413.8
Total assets less current liabilities       516.2  70.8  587.0
Net assets       516.2  70.8  587.0
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital       81.7  -  81.7
Share premium account       10.8  -  10.8
Capital redemption reserve       174.4  -  174.4
Profit and loss account       249.3  70.8  320.1
Equity shareholders’ funds       516.2  70.8  587.0 
   
a) Loans to subsidiary undertakings
Under UK GAAP at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014, the Company recognised £334.3m of long-term loans to subsidiary undertakings as fixed asset 
investments in accordance with FRS15. Under FRS 101, these amounts have been reclassified as debtors falling due after more than one year.
b) Defined benefit pension costs
Under UK GAAP , the Company was unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the IMI UK Funds and consequently was required to 
account for pension costs as if the schemes were defined contribution schemes in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b). 
As a result of a contractual arrangement, the total net defined benefit obligation of these Funds are now borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore in 
accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised in the Company’s financial statements. The £70.0m pension costs recognised in the  
profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been restated to comply with IAS19.
c) Deferred tax asset
Under UK GAAP , the Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2014 of £0.8m relating to future tax relief for pension contributions  
paid in 2014. Upon transition to FRS 101, this deferred tax asset has been recognised. 152 IMI plc
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 is included below. Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated 
in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. 
IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd 
which is held directly by IMI plc.
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts. The Group has taken 
advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this 
qualifying partnership to these accounts. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House.
Aero Dynamiek B.V. Netherlands
Aero-Dynamiek BVBA Belgium
Anson Cast Products Limited 
Ashford Valves Limited 
B&R Holding GmbH Germany
Bopp & Reuther Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter 
Haftung Austria
Bopp & Reuther Sicherheits- und Regelarmaturen 
GmbH Germany
Bopp & Reuther Zikesch Maintenance Group s.r.l. 
Romania
Brookvale International Insurance Limited Bermuda
Buschjost GmbH Germany
C.H. Zikesch Armaturen GmbH Germany
CCI (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore
CCI AG Switzerland
CCI America do Sul Comercio de Equipamentos 
Industriais Ltda Brazil
CCI Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic
CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co Ltd China
CCI International Limited 
CCI Italy Srl Italy
CCI KK Japan
CCI Limited Korea, Republic of
CCI Switzerland AG Switzerland
CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden
CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria
Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands
Church Bell Financial Services Limited 
Commtech Limited 
Control Component India Pvt Limited India
Control Components Inc United States
Deeside Titanium Limited (18%)
Engineering Appliances Limited 
EVU Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Sweden
FAS Medic SA Switzerland
FCX Ireland Limited Ireland
FCX North America Limited 
FCX Pension Trustees Limited 
Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany
Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland
Fluid Automation Systems Technologies SA 
Switzerland
Heimeier GmbH Germany
Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany
Holford Estates Limited 
IMI Americas Inc United States
IMI Australia Pty Limited Australia
IMI CIF Trustee Limited 
IMI Components Inc United States
IMI Components Limited 
IMI Consulting (Shanghai) Co Limited China
IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH Germany
IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG Germany
IMI Deutschland Limited 
IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH Germany
IMI Euro Finance Limited 
IMI Fluid Controls (Finance) Limited 
IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc United States
IMI France SARL France
IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG Germany
IMI Germany Limited 
IMI Group Inc United States
IMI Group Limited 
IMI Group Services Limited 
IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri  
Ltd Sti Turkey
IMI Holdings Limited 
IMI Holdings LLC United States
IMI Holland Limited 
IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Luxembourg
IMI Hydronic Engineering A/S Denmark
IMI Hydronic Engineering AB Sweden
IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Norway
IMI Hydronic Engineering BV Netherlands
IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland  
GmbH Germany
IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE  
United Arab Emirates
IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Austria
IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc United States
IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA 
Switzerland
IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited 
IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Brazil
IMI Hydronic Engineering NV Belgium
IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Finland
IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd Singapore
IMI Hydronic Engineering s.r.l. Italy
IMI Hydronic Engineering SA France
IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Spain
IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB Lithuania
IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG 
Switzerland
IMI Indoor Climate AB Sweden
IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd China
IMI Interamerica Inc. United States
IMI International EOOD Bulgaria
IMI International Co Srl Romania
IMI International d.o.o Slovenia
IMI International d.o.o.  
Beograd Serbia and Montenegro
IMI International d.o.o. Croatia
IMI International Kft. Hungary
IMI International LLC Russian Federation
IMI International s.r.o. Czech Republic
IMI International Sp. z.o.o. Poland
IMI Kynoch Limited 
IMI Lakeside Five Limited 
IMI Lakeside Four Limited 
IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited Ireland
IMI Lakeside NZ Limited New Zealand
IMI Lakeside One Limited 
IMI Lakeside Three Limited 
IMI Lakeside Two Limited 
IMI Marston Limited 
IMI Netherlands Holdings BV Netherlands
IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited India
IMI Norgren Limited Ireland
IMI Norgren Limited Canada
IMI Norgren Pneumatics (Shanghai) Co Limited 
China
IMI Norgren SA (Sociedad Unipersonal Spain
IMI Norgren Terracco S.L. Spain 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
IMI Overseas Investments Limited 
IMI Pensions Trust Limited 
IMI plc 
IMI Property Investments Limited 
IMI Refiners Limited 
IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited 
IMI Scotland Limited 
IMI Sweden AB Sweden
IMI Sweden Finance Limited 
IMI Systems Limited 
IMI Vision Limited
IMI Watson Smith Limited
IMI Webber Limited 
Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA France
Interativa Indústria, Comércio e Representações 
Ltda Brazil
Kynoch Sweden Holding AB Sweden
Lakeside Finance Ireland
Lakeside Treasury Ireland
Liquick 200 Limited 
Liquick 211 Limited 
Liquick 213 Limited 
Martonair International Limited 
Martonair Limited 
Middlepark 
Newman Hattersley Limited Canada
Norgren A/S Denmark
Norgren AG Switzerland
Norgren AS Norway
Norgren Automation Solutions LLC  
United States
Norgren B.V. Netherlands
Norgren Co Limited China
Norgren Co Limited Thailand
Norgren European Logistics Company Limited
Norgren Finland OY Finland
Norgren Ges.m.b.H Austria
Norgren GmbH Germany
Norgren GT Development Corporation  
United States
Norgren Inc United States
Norgren Kloehn, Inc. United States
Norgren Limited New Zealand
Norgren Limited Hong Kong
Norgren Limited 
Norgren Ltda Brazil
Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China
Norgren Manufacturing De Mexico SA DE CV 
Mexico
Norgren NV Belgium
Norgren Pte. Limited Singapore
Norgren Pty Limited Australia
Norgren SA de CV Mexico
Norgren SAS France
Norgren SDN BHD Malaysia
Norgren SpA Italy
Norgren Sweden AB Sweden
Norgren Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan
Oldpeg Limited Ireland
Orton S.R.L, Italy
Pneumatex GmbH Germany
Premier Profiles Limited 
Quanta Fluid Solutions Limited (24%)
Remosa Service & Construction Srl Italy
Remosa Srl Italy
SAIC CCI Valve Co., Ltd. China (44%)
Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment  
Co Ltd China (70%)
Stainless Steel Fasteners Limited 
STI s.r.l. Italy
TA Hydronics Holding AG Switzerland
TA Hydronics LLC Ukraine
TA Regulator d.o.o. Slovenia
TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Germany
The Commtech Group Limited 
The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership 
Thompson Valves Limited 
Transpal Limited Ireland
Truflo Group Limited 
Truflo International Limited 
Truflo Investments Limited 
Truflo Marine Limited 
Truflo Rona S.A. Belgium
Truflo Rona S.r.l. Italy
Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited Australia
Valves Holding GmbH Germany
Z&J High Temperature Equipment (Shanghai) Co 
Ltd China
Z&J Technologies GmbH Germany
Zimmermann & Jansen Inc United States
 
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES
The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2015 and is not required to be audited.
UK           1,439 
Continental Europe          6,160 
Americas          2,187
Asia Pacific           1,469
Rest of World          45 
Total          11,300 154 IMI plc
278
281
275
298 2013
Reported revenue £m Reported profit before tax* £m
* Before exceptional items.
Group revenue by geography 2015 
Rest of the
World
4%
Emerging 
Markets
33%
North America
21%
Westen Europe
36%
UK
6%
2011
2015 1,557
2011 1,649
2012 1,696
2013 1,744
2014 1,686
2015
2012
2014
Income statement    
 
      2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  
      £m £m £m £m £m
Statutory revenue      1,645  1,694  1,743  1,692  1,567 
Reported revenue*      1,649  1,696  1,744  1,686  1,557 
Reported operating profit*       307.6  300.1  321.6  295.5  236.9 
Reported profit before tax*      280.9  274.8  297.7  278.1  218.7 
Special pension events       -   10.9   -   7.0   9.1 
Restructuring costs      (21.4) (18.9) (14.2) (8.6) (27.1)
Acquired intangible amortisation     
and impairment      (32.3) (29.6) (21.9) (60.4) (32.2)
Acquisition and disposal costs       -  (6.3) (9.9) (1.8) - 
(Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries       -   -   -  34.2  (8.4)
Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains/losses   (6.2) (1.0) (2.4) (2.8) 2.6 
Profit before tax from continuing operations     221.0  229.9  249.3  245.7  162.7 
EBITDA
†
      321  318  332  371  263
          
* Before exceptional items.        
†
 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.       
Group revenue by geography 
     
      2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  
      £m £m £m £m £m
UK       91  101  104  98  90 
Western Europe      744  694  686  644  563 
North America      297  306  338  318  334 
Emerging Markets      396  462  504  544  505 
Rest of World      121  133  112  82  65
        1,649  1,696  1,744  1,686  1,557
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
219 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Earnings and dividends    
 
      2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
Adjusted earnings per share (continuing)      64.5p 64.7p 72.6p 78.0p 62.2p
Basic earnings per share (continuing)      50.5p 53.9p 60.4p 69.2p 44.7p
Ordinary dividend per share      30.0p 32.5p 35.3p 37.6p 38.4p
          
Balance sheet 
     
      2011  2012  2013  2014  2015 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Segmental net assets     
  Continuing      806  906  897  849  926 
  Discontinued      192  189  196   -   - 
Other net non-operating liabilities excluding borrowings (gross)    (275) (267) (246) (95) (100)
Net debt     
  Continuing      (127) (160) (226) (200) (237)
  Discontinued      (18) (16) (27)  -   - 
Net assets      614  684  648  554  589
Statistics 
     
      2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
Segmental operating profit as a percentage of  segmental revenue    18.7% 17.7% 18.4% 17.5% 15.4%
Segmental operating profit as a percentage of  segmental net assets    38.2% 33.1% 35.9% 34.8% 25.9%
Effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax     26.0% 24.0% 22.0% 22.0% 22.0%
Net assets per share (excluding treasury and EBT shares)    193.5p 214.0p 210.0p 218.4p 217.3p
Net debt as a percentage  of shareholders’ funds     20.7% 23.4% 34.9% 36.1% 40.2%
Net debt: EBITDA*      0.4  0.5  0.7  0.6  0.9 
EBITDA*: Interest      19  18  21  23  15
* EBITDA before exceptional items. 156 IMI plc
Announcement of trading results
The trading results for the Group for the first half  
of 2016 will be announced on 29 July 2016.
The trading results for the full year ending 31 
December 2016 will be announced in early 2017.
Interim management statements will be issued in 
May and November 2016.
Dividend payment
Final: 20 May 2016
Interim: September 2016
Share prices and capital gains tax
The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares 
on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 
2015 was 862.00p (2014: 1,263.00p). The market 
value of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 
March 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax 
purposes, was 53.5p per share. 
The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443.
Enquiries about shareholdings
For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal 
holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: 
Equiniti (contact details appear below).
Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house, 
change bank details or if there is any other change 
to your account information. 
Managing your shares on-line
Shareholders can manage their holdings on-line 
by registering with Shareview, the internet based 
platform provided by Equiniti. Registration is a 
straightforward process and allows shareholders to: 
•  help us to reduce print, paper and postage costs 
and the associated environmental impact of these; 
•  cast your AGM vote electronically; 
•  receive an email alert when important shareholder 
documents are available on-line such as Annual 
Reports and Notices of General Meetings;
•  access details of your individual shareholding 
quickly and securely;
•  set up a dividend mandate on-line; and
•  change your registered postal address or your 
dividend mandate details. 
To find out more information about the services 
offered by Shareview and to register, please visit 
www.shareview.co.uk. 
Corporate website
The IMI plc website provides a wealth of useful 
information for shareholders and should be your 
first port of call for general queries relating to the 
Company and your shares. As well as providing 
share price data and financial history, the site 
also provides background information about the 
Company. 
Shareholders are also encouraged to sign up to 
receive news alerts by email in the Investors section 
of the website. These include all of the financial 
news releases from throughout the year that are  
not sent to shareholders by post. You can access 
the corporate website at www.imiplc.com 
Annual General Meeting 2016
This year’s AGM will be held at the Hilton 
Birmingham Metropole, National Exhibition Centre, 
Birmingham B40 1PP on Thursday 5 May 2016 at 
10am. For further information, please refer to the 
Notice of Meeting which appears on the corporate 
website. 
Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’)
IMI‘s ordinary shares can be held in an ISA. 
For information about the ISA operated by our 
Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA 
helpline on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open from 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding  
UK public holidays.
Share dealing service
Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s registrar, the 
IMI plc Share dealing service provides shareholders 
with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary 
shares. Telephone: 0345 603 7037. Full written 
details can be obtained from Equiniti (contact 
details appear below).
Share fraud
Share fraud includes scams where investors are 
called out of the blue and offered shares that often 
turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an 
inflated price for shares they own. These calls come 
from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are 
mostly based abroad. Further information on how  
to spot share fraud or report a scam can be found 
on our corporate website. 
American Depository Receipts
IMI plc has an American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) 
programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter 
(‘OTC’) market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY. 
ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank 
Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, 
RI 02940-3077, USA. Toll-free number in the 
USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) and from 
outside the USA is 1-781-575-4555. You can also 
email citibank@shareholders-online.com.
Headquarters and registered office
Lakeside
Solihull Parkway
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham
B37 7XZ
Telephone: +44 121 717 3700
IMI plc is registered in England
No.714275
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0371 384 2916
or from overseas +44 121 415 7047
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm,
Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays)
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking 
statements that may or may not prove accurate. 
For example, statements regarding expected 
revenue growth and operating margins, market 
trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking 
statements. It is believed that the expectations 
reflected in these statements are reasonable but 
they may be affected by a number of risks and 
uncertainties that are inherent in any forward-
looking statement which could cause actual  
results to differ materially from those currently 
anticipated. Any forward-looking statement is made 
in good faith and based on information available 
to IMI plc as of the date of the preparation of this 
Annual Report. All written or oral forward-looking 
statements attributable to IMI plc are qualified 
by this caution. IMI plc does not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking 
statement to reflect any change in circumstances  
or in IMI plc’s expectations.
SHAREHOLDER AND GENERAL INFORMATION 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Strategic 
Review*
Performance 
Review*
Corporate 
Governance
Financial  
Statements
01  Highlights
02  Group overview
04  Chairman’s statement
08  Chief Executive’s review 
12 Strategic growth priorities and enablers 
15  Business model 
16  Strategy in action
26 Corporate responsibility 
30  Measurements and targets 
32  Principal risks and uncertainties 
38 IMI Critical Engineering 
40 IMI Precision Engineering
42 IMI Hydronic Engineering 
46  The Board 
48 Letter from the Chairman 
49 Corporate Governance Report 
54  Audit Committee Report
57  Nominations Committee Report 
59  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
74  Introduction
76  Primary statements 
84  Section 1 - Basis of preparation 
85 Section 2 - Results for the year 
96 Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities
103  Section 4 - Capital structure and    
  financing costs
127  Section 5 - Other notes 
133 Directors’ Report 
154  Five year summary
156  Shareholder and general information
We introduce our Board, and explain our 
governance structure and how it operates.
Our financial statements for the year presented 
in a user-friendly format. 
We take a look at our 2015 results, division 
by division.
Our Chief Executive reviews 2015 and 
outlines our strategy and the progress we 
are making.
Introduction 36-43 06-35
72-156
01-05
44-71
*  The Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43 has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on 
their behalf by Mark Selway, Chief Executive, on 25 February 2016.
IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275
IMI plc
IMI plc, the specialist engineering company, designs, manufactures and services 
highly engineered products that control the precise movement of fluids. Its innovative 
technologies, built around valves and actuators, enable vital processes to operate 
safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively. The Group works with industrial 
customers across a range of high growth sectors, including energy, transportation  
and infrastructure, all of which are benefiting from the impact of long-term global trends 
including climate change, urbanisation, resource scarcity and an ageing population. 
IMI employs over 12,000 people, has manufacturing facilities in more than 20 countries 
and operates a global service network. The Company is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. Further information is available at www.imiplc.com.
Inside this report
Front cover photo:  
IMI Divisional Employees
See the report on 
the IMI plc website:
www.imiplc.com IMI plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
2015
Engineering 
GREAT the IMI WAY
Good strategic  
progress
IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
IMI plc
Lakeside
Solihull Parkway
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham B37 7XZ
United Kingdom
www.imiplc.com
