 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Imperial Tobacco  
Group PLC
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 WHO WE ARE
Our Business
We are an international fast-moving consumer goods 
company, focused on maximising opportunities for our brands 
and generating sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our core business is built around a tobacco portfolio that 
offers a comprehensive range of cigarettes, fine cut and 
smokeless tobaccos, papers and cigars. Our tobacco 
operations include ITG Brands, a dynamic new company  
in the USA.
We are also creating new consumer experiences beyond 
tobacco through Fontem Ventures and adding to the breadth 
of our activities is Logista, one of the largest logistics 
businesses in Europe.
Through the consistent delivery of our strategy we have  
built a long track record of creating sustainable value for  
our shareholders.
Our Values
Our values express what we stand for and capture the 
individual and collective behaviours we expect from everyone 
who works for us.
Our people take pride in what they do, bringing our values  
to life every day to ensure we make the most of our 
opportunities for growth.
I am
We can
We enjoy
We surprise
I own
I engage Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Dividend Per Share 
+10. 1%
141.0p
Tobacco Net Revenue
1,3
 
+3%
2
£6.3bn
Cash Conversion
3 
+590bps
97%
Adjusted Earnings  
Per Share
1,3
+8.2%
212.5p
Growth Brand Volumes
3
 
+7%
2
145bn
Adjusted Operating Profit
1
 
+7%
£3.1bn
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
 Performance Highlights 1
 How We Create Value 2
 Our Brands and Markets 4
 Chairman’s Statement 6
 Our Operating Environment 7
STRATEGY
 Chief Executive’s Review 8
 Investing in the USA 10
 Key Performance Indicators 12
PERFORMANCE
 Operating Review 14
 Financial Review 18
 Corporate Responsibility 21
 Risk Management 25
 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 27
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s Introduction 31
Board of Directors 32
The Board and its Committees 34
Directors’ Report 42
Directors’ Remuneration Report 49
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
AND NOTES
Independent Auditors’ Report 68
Consolidated Income Statement 74
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 75
Consolidated Balance Sheet 76
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 77
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 78
Notes to the Financial Statements 79
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 116
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 117
Notes to the Financial Statements of  
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 118
SUPPLEMENTARY 
INFORMATION
Related Undertakings 121
Shareholder Information 131
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS CONTENTS
Performance Measures
Measure Explanation Where used
Reported (GAAP) Complies with International Financial 
Reporting Standards and the relevant 
legislation.
Throughout the report.
Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Non-GAAP measures provide a useful 
comparison of performance from one period 
to the next. These measures are defined in 
the Accounting Policies on page 77.
Throughout the report.
Constant currency 
basis
Removes the effect of exchange rate 
movements on the translation of the  
results of our overseas operations.
Throughout the report.
Underlying change Removes the impact on our growth rates of  
our 2014 stock optimisation programme in 
order to reflect management’s estimate of the 
underlying performance before the one-off  
fall in sales arising from the reduction in 
excess stock held in distribution channels.
Throughout the report 
but only for volumes 
and tobacco net 
revenue.
For a more interactive experience visit:  
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Keep up to date with our news 
via twitter @ImperialTobacco
Adjusted Net Debt 
Reduction
  
(excludes the £4.6 billion  
cost of the US acquisition)
-13%
£1.1bn
Adjusted Net Debt
 
(includes the £4.6 billion  
cost of the US acquisition) 
+£3.5bn
£11.6bn
1  Changes in our adjusted results are presented on a constant currency basis.
2  Underlying change. See explanation in the Performance Measures table below.
3 KPIs used as bonus and LTIP performance criteria for Executive Directors.  
See Remuneration Report on page 49 for more information. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2
Strong
Cash
Flow
High
Margin
Proﬁts
Reinvest
Strong
Dividend 
Growth
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Pricing
Portfolio
Management
Growth 
and
Specialist
Brands
Sales Growth Drivers
Our Strategy and Business Model
How we 
Support 
Growth
Strong Governance
High standards of governance are 
critical to our sustainability.
 Find out more on page 31
Managing Risk
We actively identify, manage and 
mitigate the risks facing our business.
 Find out more on page 25 
Acting Responsibly
Operating responsibly is integral to  
the way we do business.
 Find out more on page 21
Rewarding Success
Our people are rewarded fairly  
and incentivised to deliver our  
sales strategy.
 Find out more on page 49
Strategy
Our strategy aims to maximise sales, cost and cash opportunities to deliver 
sustainable returns to shareholders. We are strengthening our portfolio by 
building the contribution of our Growth and Specialist Brands, supported  
by new launches from Fontem Ventures, and a strategic focus on share and 
profit performance is central to the development of our geographic footprint. 
Our cost optimisation programme is improving efficiencies and by embedding 
stronger capital discipline we are more effectively managing working capital 
and achieving high cash conversion.
HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Maximising Shareholder Returns
Develop 
Footprint
Cost 
Optimisation
Capital  
Discipline
Strengthen 
Portfolio Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Strong
Cash
Flow
High
Margin
Proﬁts
Reinvest
Strong
Dividend 
Growth
Innovation
Customer
Engagement
Pricing
Portfolio
Management
Growth 
and
Specialist
Brands
Sales Growth Drivers
Business 
Model
Our business model shows how we create value. We are improving the  
quality of our growth by driving the performance of our Growth and Specialist 
Brands, which combined with effective cost management, delivers high 
operating margins. This generates the strong cash flows that are a hallmark  
of our business. We use this cash to reinvest in the business, pay down debt 
or return to shareholders through dividends, which we are committed to 
growing by at least 10 per cent a year over the medium term.
Sales 
Growth 
Drivers
Portfolio management, innovation, 
customer engagement and pricing are 
the four sales growth drivers we have 
selected to drive the performance of 
our Growth and Specialist Brands. 
Through portfolio management we 
focus on connecting our brands with 
consumers to enhance brand equity 
and build sales. 
Our approach to innovation is to 
create a drumbeat of initiatives: small, 
frequent innovations that keep our 
brands relevant to consumers.
Excellence in customer engagement 
requires strong retailer partnerships. 
We work with retailers to support their 
business and maximise the availability 
and advocacy of our brands at the 
point of sale.
We evaluate pricing opportunities by 
brand, pack size and sales channel. 
We take excise structures into 
account when making pricing 
decisions and focus on maximising 
revenue growth while continuing to 
give consumers value for money. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 4
OUR BRANDS AND MARKETS
Specialist Brands
1
Our Specialist Brands are enjoyed by specific consumer 
groups and include cigarette, fine cut tobacco, paper, cigar 
and smokeless tobacco brands. Specialist Brands have a 
track record of generating strong returns.
Growth Brands
1
Our Growth Brands have broad consumer appeal and account 
for 50.9 per cent of our total volumes. We manage our Growth 
Brands to drive quality sustainable growth.
Our Brands
We’re optimising our portfolio to focus on our Growth and 
Specialist Brands. These are the most important brands in our 
portfolio and generate more than half our tobacco net revenue. 
Specialist Brands
Growth Brands Portfolio Brands
Tobacco net revenue 
by brand
Our 
Brands
11.1%
45.8% 43.1%
1 As a result of the USA acquisition these brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015. Details are on page 9.
® Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Growth Markets
Tobacco net revenue 
by market
23.1%
Returns Markets South
Returns Markets North
Our
Markets
11.3%
USA Market
2
42.4%
23.2%
Returns Markets
In Returns Markets, which include 
Australia and markets in the EU, 
Eastern Europe and Africa, we focus 
on sustainable profit performance, 
while actively managing our strong 
share positions.
USA Market
We manage the USA as a standalone 
Growth Market following an acquisition 
that has significantly enhanced our 
portfolio, market share and distribution 
coverage.
Growth Markets
In Growth Markets, which include 
selected markets in the EU, Eastern 
Europe, Asia and the Middle East, our 
priority is to drive long-term share and 
profit growth.
Our Markets
We manage our markets according to the strategic role  
they play, not by geographic location. Our markets prioritise 
either Growth or Returns, driving more effective resource 
allocation and greater collaboration.
2 Including a 3.9 per cent net contribution from ITG Brands since the completion of the acquisition on 12 June 2015. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6
Mark Williamson Chairman
We delivered another good performance in 
2015, creating further sustainable value for  
our shareholders. This was achieved through 
the consistent execution of our strategy, which 
is focused on maximising sales, cost and  
cash opportunities. 
Our performance highlights included gains from our Growth and 
Specialist Brands, strong results in a broad spread of markets and 
the completion of an acquisition that has transformed our presence 
in the USA, the world’s most profitable tobacco market outside  
of China.
We also made excellent progress with our strategic transition 
initiatives, further optimising our portfolio and market footprint, 
implementing better ways of working and efficiently managing  
our cost base. 
It is a credit to our people around the world that Imperial Tobacco 
continues to deliver such good results, often against a backdrop  
of difficult market conditions. My thanks to everyone for their 
contribution.
Growing Returns for Shareholders
Our success continues to generate sustainable returns for our 
shareholders. 
On a constant currency basis tobacco net revenue was up by  
4 per cent, adjusted operating profit was up by 7 per cent and  
we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent. 
The Board is pleased to be recommending a total dividend for  
the year of 141.0 pence per share, another strong increase of  
10 per cent.
Investing in the USA
In July 2014 we announced our intention to acquire a number  
of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets. These  
assets were being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard  
by Reynolds American and consisted of a portfolio of US  
cigarette brands, blu, a leading e-cigarette brand and Lorillard’s 
infrastructure, including its cigarette factory and national sales 
force.
We successfully completed the transaction on 12 June 2015 for a 
consideration of $7.1 billion (£4.6 billion) or $5.6 billion (£3.6 billion) 
after adjusting for the present value of expected tax benefits of 
approximately $1.5 billion.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The deal, which was financed from debt and our own cash 
resources, has significantly enhanced our operations in the USA 
providing national distribution for our brands and improving our 
cigarette market share from around 3 per cent to over 9 per cent. 
The expanded business, ITG Brands, will significantly increase the 
diversity and sustainability of our cash flow and returns. The USA 
will become the largest contributor to Group revenues and as a 
result, we now disclose our USA performance as a separate 
reportable segment.
Capital Discipline
Our continued focus on embedding stronger capital discipline  
in the business was reflected in further improvements in cash 
conversion and debt reduction.
Cash conversion increased to 97 per cent, up from 91 per cent  
last year.
Adjusted net debt increased to £11.6 billion, the result of adding 
£4.6 billion for the USA acquisition. We reduced adjusted net debt 
in the existing business by £1.1 billion, building on the excellent 
progress we made in 2014 and taking the total reduction over  
the last two years to £2.1 billion.
A Responsible Business
We run our business responsibly and take pride in the positive 
contributions we make in countries across our international 
footprint. We respect the natural resources we use, provide 
employment for around 36,400 people and return over £16 billion  
a year to governments in taxes and duties.
Our corporate responsibility priorities are clearly set out in our 
responsibility framework and an update on the progress we’re 
making in key areas can be found on pages 21 to 24 of this  
report and on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and the Board
Strong governance is integral to our long-term sustainability  
and the Board is committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco  
is governed and managed in an open, honest and transparent 
manner. 
Our Governance Report provides an overview of our governance 
framework and the work of the Board and its Committees.
Following the completion of the USA acquisition we made a 
number of senior management changes to ensure that we have  
the right structure in place to lead the enlarged Group. 
These changes included appointing Matthew Phillips, previously 
Corporate Affairs Director and a member of the Board for the  
past three years, as Chief Development Officer. In this new role, 
Matthew is responsible for corporate development and Fontem 
Ventures, including blu, and also retains his corporate and legal 
affairs responsibilities. 
Building on our Success 
We made good progress in 2015 and will continue to focus on 
strengthening the business and improving the quality of our growth.
We have the strategy, the capabilities and the people to build  
on these results and deliver another year of value creation for  
our shareholders.
Mark Williamson
Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Our Markets
Globally, there are around a billion adult smokers consuming  
6 trillion cigarettes a year and the value of the world tobacco 
market is estimated at around £500 billion.
Our geographic footprint extends across many territories and we 
have classified our markets to prioritise either Growth or Returns. 
Growth Markets have large profit and/or volume pools and include 
selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East 
and the USA. We typically have shares below 15 per cent in these 
markets and focus on growing share and profit. 
We tend to have larger shares in Returns Markets, which include 
Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa. Here, 
we focus on generating sustainable profit, while actively managing 
our share.
The macro-economic environment has impacted consumer 
spending and cigarette volumes in some markets, and political 
instability in the Near East has further affected industry volumes. 
However, we have a long track record of developing our business 
in challenging conditions and see many opportunities for growth 
across our market footprint.
Illicit Trade
Regrettably, some 500 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed every 
year, depriving governments of around £30 billion in legitimate taxes.
Smuggling and counterfeiting benefits no-one except the criminals 
involved, creating a market that is uncontrolled and unaccountable. 
As well as impacting government tax revenues, illicit trade means 
children can more easily obtain tobacco products, consumers  
are deprived of the quality and taste they associate with their 
favourite brands and the livelihoods of independent tobacco 
retailers are threatened.
We apply stringent controls to our global network of distributors 
and have a dedicated team of specialists who work with 
governments and law enforcement agencies around the world  
to tackle illicit trade. We also invest in systems and processes  
to improve the security of our products and share intelligence  
to help disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes. 
We welcome these partnership opportunities and through our 
engagement activities we encourage authorities to recognise both 
the scale of the illicit trade problem, as well as the adverse impact 
that excessive regulatory and taxation policies can have.
Regulating Tobacco Products
Regulation of tobacco products continues to increase and is  
largely driven by the World Health Organization (WHO, through  
the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the FCTC), the 
USA’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European 
Commission (through the European Union Tobacco Products 
Directive, the EUTPD). 
The EUTPD has been revised to include legislation to standardise 
the appearance and taste of tobacco products. The revised 
Directive came into force in May 2014 and EU Member States  
have until May 2016 to transpose it into national law.
We support reasonable and proportionate regulation that is 
underpinned by sound evidence, including regulation that will 
reduce illicit trade and youth smoking. We also support appropriate 
ingredients disclosure and agree that all tobacco products should 
display written health warnings that are consistent with global 
public health messages. 
We don’t agree with regulation that bans smoking in public or 
private places. Other regulation that we oppose includes plain 
packaging, pictorial health warnings and bans on product display, 
vending and the use of descriptors. 
We seek constructive dialogue with regulatory authorities and 
continue to vigorously oppose excessive regulation to protect  
our business and defend the rights of our consumers. We don’t 
engage lightly in legal challenges but do so when we consider it is 
necessary, such as earlier this year when we filed a legal challenge 
to the UK Government’s plain packaging legislation. 
Extreme measures such as plain packaging are ineffective and fuel 
the growth of illicit trade. Since the introduction of plain packaging 
in Australia in December 2012 and subsequent high tax increases, 
long-term overall consumption trends have not been affected while 
both illicit trade and underage smoking have significantly increased.
Regulating E-vapour Products
The global market for e-vapour products (EVPs) continues to 
expand and there is growing consensus that these products  
may be less risky than smoking tobacco.
E-cigarettes are the most common EVPs and we are developing 
our own portfolio of brands through our standalone subsidiary 
Fontem Ventures.
The e-vapour sector requires a clear regulatory framework to 
govern the way these products are made and sold, and we 
continue to engage with stakeholders to support the development 
of effective legislation.
In the USA, the FDA has proposed to extend its authority to  
include the regulation of EVPs.
We do not make or sell heated tobacco products. Unlike EVPs, 
these products contain tobacco and in our view should therefore 
be regulated and taxed as conventional tobacco products.
Our Operating
Environment Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
This was another successful year for Imperial, 
one in which we delivered a good underlying 
performance and made further progress with 
our strategic transition. 
I am particularly pleased with the results from our Growth and 
Specialist Brands. Our consistent focus on developing these 
brands continues to improve the contribution they make to the 
quality of the business and they now account for more than half  
of our tobacco net revenue.
From a footprint perspective, we’ve strengthened our delivery in 
Returns Markets and maintained positive momentum in many 
Growth Markets, including in the USA where we significantly 
expanded our operations with a major acquisition. 
This investment, which saw Imperial acquire brands and other 
assets sold as a result of Reynolds American’s purchase of 
Lorillard, was a key highlight of the year.
Our strategic transition remains on track and continues to revolve 
around optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, 
implementing new ways of working and effectively managing  
cost and cash. 
These initiatives are strengthening the business, improving our 
quality of growth and enhancing our ability to generate sustainable 
shareholder returns.
The underlying results disclosed in this report are adjusted  
to remove the impact on our growth rates of our 2014 stock 
optimisation programme, which reduced the level of stock held  
by distributors, impacting volume, revenue and profit. Underlying 
results provide a clearer view of our 2015 performance against  
last year’s.
On a constant currency basis adjusted operating profit was up by  
7 per cent and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent.
Return on invested capital was 11 per cent and we delivered 
another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
Our detailed financial results are set out on pages 18-20.
Our Transition Agenda
The work we’re doing to optimise our brand portfolio is at the core 
of our transition agenda.
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands. 
Growth and Specialist Brands are our most important brands and 
our priority is to build their equity and enhance the contribution  
they make to our success. 
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings; some  
will keep adding to our volume and revenue momentum, while 
others are being delisted or migrated into stronger, higher quality 
Growth Brands.
Brand migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually 
to ensure the highest possible number of consumers complete  
the journey from one brand to another. 
We achieved consistently high consumer retention with the  
21 brand migrations we completed in the year. A number of other 
migrations are currently underway and more will be progressed  
in 2016. 
Managing fewer brands provides focus around the portfolio choices 
we make in markets and this is sharpening our focus on growth 
opportunities as we continue to develop our footprint.
Reducing complexity and streamlining the way we manage our 
brands and markets, combined with the changes we’re making  
to our operating model, supports our cost and cash objectives.
The ongoing review of our operating model involves looking at  
how the business is run on a day-to-day basis and identifying  
areas where we can change systems, processes and structures  
to improve our performance. 
For example, clusters of markets are starting to share support 
services such as HR, Finance and Corporate Affairs which  
is removing duplication and enabling more efficient resource 
allocation. Elsewhere, we are investing in new technologies  
to provide our sales teams with real time information about  
key customers.
Simplifying the way we work is also instilling a more cost- 
conscious culture in the business and provides opportunities  
for margin expansion. 
Our focus on efficiently managing our cost base is balanced by our 
commitment to capital discipline and this drives the effective 
deployment of our cash, which we use to reinvest in the business, 
pay down debt and return to shareholders.
Our approach to building the capabilities and leadership skills  
of our employees is aligned with our strategic transition and we 
continue to invest in training and development to support their 
career progression. 
The ability of our people to make things happen, often in 
challenging circumstances, has kept us on track throughout  
the year and I would like to thank them all for their hard work  
and commitment.
Our transition initiatives are creating a stronger, more agile 
organisation that’s better equipped to respond to changing  
market and consumer dynamics. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Excellent Results from Growth Brands
Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS,  
West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and  
Parker & Simpson.
These brands are clustered on five platforms, or ‘brand chassis’. 
Brands that share the same chassis also share the same growth 
initiatives, including innovations and pack designs. This further 
reduces cost and complexity and enables greater consistency  
in the way we manage their performance.
Growth Brands continued to deliver excellent results and again 
outperformed the market, with underlying volumes up 7.1 per cent 
and underlying net revenue up 11.7 per cent. In contrast, market 
volumes in our geographic footprint declined by 3.5 per cent. 
Excluding Iraq and Syria, underlying Growth Brand volumes were 
up 13.9 per cent and net revenue was up by 14.9 per cent. We 
also grew the market share of Growth Brands by 110 basis points 
to 6.6 per cent.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 285.1 billion 
stick equivalents (2014: 294.4 billion), which includes five billion 
from ITG Brands in the USA since the acquisition was completed 
on 12 June 2015. On an underlying basis volumes declined by 5.6  
per cent, over half of which was as a result of Iraq and Syria. Our 
total Group market share was broadly maintained at 13.3 per cent.
Growth Brands accounted for 50.9 per cent of total Group tobacco 
volumes (145.1 billion stick equivalents), an increase of 640 basis 
points, and 45.8 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an 
increase of 320 basis points. 
Brand migrations supported these strong results, with Portfolio 
Brands successfully migrated into a range of Growth Brands 
including Parker & Simpson in Poland and Taiwan, JPS in Spain 
and the UK, West in Spain and News in France.
Investment also supported the performance of Growth Brands, 
including the roll out of new marketing campaigns for JPS, Davidoff 
and Gauloises Blondes. 
Performance highlights included share and volume growth of JPS 
in Australia and the EU and Davidoff gains in Greece and Taiwan. 
Gauloises Blondes contributed to our success in Germany and 
continued to make progress in Algeria, although the impact of Iraq 
and Syria held back the brand’s overall performance.
Momentum slowed for Bastos and Fine due to regulatory and 
pricing pressures but West grew share in Saudi Arabia and Japan, 
and USA Gold made further progress in key focus states. 
We continued to focus on building the presence of Parker & 
Simpson in a number of markets and in the UK another good 
performance from Lambert & Butler Blue continued to strengthen 
the brand franchise.
Underlying Growth from Specialist Brands
Our Specialist Brands are: Style, Gitanes (cigarettes), Golden 
Virginia, Drum, Route 66 (fine cut tobacco), Cohiba, Montecristo, 
Romeo Y Julieta (premium cigars), Backwoods (cigars), Skruf (snus) 
and Rizla (papers).
These brands account for over 11 per cent of our tobacco net 
revenue. As a result of Iraq and Syria, underlying net revenue from 
Specialist Brands was down by 0.7 per cent; excluding this impact, 
underlying net revenue increased by 2.9 per cent.
Performance highlights included further share and volume growth 
from Skruf in Scandinavia and growth in premium cigars in parts of 
Latin America and Europe, Africa and the Middle East, China and 
the USA. Limited editions continued to support cigar growth, 
including exclusive offerings from Montecristo to celebrate the 
brand’s 80th anniversary.
Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla 
reinforced our world leadership in fine cut tobacco and papers,  
and included strong growth in modern variants of Golden Virginia  
in the UK and Greece. 
As a result of the USA acquisition our Growth and Specialist 
Brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015.
Winston has been added to Growth Brands, replacing USA Gold, 
which becomes a Portfolio Brand, and Kool and blu have joined  
our Specialist Brands.
Momentum in Growth Markets
Conditions in the Near East masked a number of good results in 
Growth Markets, where our overall market share was 6.1 per cent. 
Underlying net revenue declined by 2.5 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit increased by 19.0 per cent. Excluding Iraq and 
Syria, underlying net revenue was up 4.5 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit was up 27.0 per cent.
Our performance in Russia improved in the year, buoyed by 
stronger pricing in the second half and gains from Maxim in the 
growing value segment. Snus sales increased in Norway and 
Sweden and we improved our cigarette share in Saudi Arabia. 
We continued to build our position in Japan and Egypt and made 
further progress in Italy and Kazakhstan. Results in Vietnam were 
undermined by further growth in illicit trade following regulatory 
changes. 
Underlying Growth Brand volumes were down 16.0 per cent at 
46.5 billion stick equivalents, with the majority of the decline due  
to lower volumes in Iraq, Syria and Vietnam.
Excellent Progress in the USA 
We completed the acquisition of assets in the USA from Reynolds 
American on 12 June and the enlarged business, ITG Brands, has 
made excellent progress against its commercial and integration plans.
Our financial performance was enhanced by the contribution of  
ITG Brands. In total, ITG Brands and our existing USA operations 
generated tobacco net revenue of £707 million, an increase of  
39.4 per cent, and adjusted operating profit of £375 million, an 
increase of 47.2 per cent. Since completion, the net contribution  
of the acquisition to the USA performance was volumes of five 
billion stick equivalents and tobacco net revenue of £242 million.
The newly acquired brands maintained share and our national sales 
team has introduced new retail programmes to support the 
development of our enhanced portfolio.
Integration continues to be effectively managed, with all elements  
of the plan moving ahead smoothly in line with our timetable. The 
transfer of manufacturing machinery between Lorillard’s factory in 
Greensboro and Reynolds American’s site at Tobaccoville as part  
of a reciprocal manufacturing agreement is also progressing well.
Our cigarette business is complemented by a strong cigar position. 
Challenges persisted in the mass market cigar segment as a result 
of competitor discounting, impacting revenue.
Our premium cigar portfolio performed well and we implemented  
a restructuring of our distribution business JR Cigars to further 
strengthen our position in the premium segment. 
Positive Performance in Returns Markets
We made positive progress in Returns Markets, generating good 
results in Australia, Germany, Czech Republic, Portugal, Ukraine 
and Algeria. This mitigated the impact of weaker trading conditions 
in France, Spain and Morocco. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10
INVESTING IN THE USA
ITG Brands is our dynamic new business in the USA, combining 
our former Commonwealth-Altadis operations with assets  
we bought from Reynolds American, following its acquisition 
of Lorillard. 
These assets are: the American cigarette brands Winston, 
Maverick, Kool and Salem, the e-cigarette brand blu, which is  
now part of Fontem Ventures, a cigarette factory and most of 
Lorillard’s employees.
The transaction has transformed our presence in this key Growth 
Market. Excluding China, the USA is the most profitable tobacco 
market in the world and the second largest by volume, at around 
260 billion stick equivalents a year. 
ITG Brands, now the third largest tobacco company in the market, 
is headquartered in Greensboro, North Carolina and led by Chief 
Executive David Taylor, former Chief Financial Officer of Lorillard.
With great brands and great people, we’re confident of establishing 
ITG Brands as a winning business with a long-term future. 
Performance has been in line with our plans and we’re making 
excellent progress with integration.
We’re investing to support growth, with funds primarily targeted at 
Winston, the sixth largest cigarette brand in the market. Further 
investment is being allocated to Maverick, Kool and USA Gold.
A dynamic  
new business
Cigarette brands Cigar brands
The iconic Winston 
brand is one of  
the best-selling 
cigarettes in the US.
Dutch Masters is  
one of the most 
well-known natural 
wrapper cigars.
Maverick is a leading 
value brand with strong 
positions in a number  
of key states. 
®
Backwoods is a cigar 
famed for its unique 
style, taste and aroma.
USA Gold is a popular 
value brand in the 
discount sector.
Kool is one of America’s 
most famous menthol 
cigarette brands.
Salem is another 
prominent brand  
in the menthol category. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
In the UK we continued to focus on stabilising the performance of 
our Growth Brands and further expanded our share in the growing 
sub-economy segment.
Net revenue per thousand stick equivalents increased 2.8 per cent 
on an underlying basis and adjusted operating profit was up by  
1.3 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Growth Brands performed well, accounting for 50.9 per cent of  
net revenue, an increase of 770 basis points.
Our share across Returns Markets was similar to last year’s, in line 
with our strategy for managing these markets.
Fontem Ventures
Following the USA acquisition Fontem Ventures has focused on 
integrating the blu team and consolidating its operations in the 
Netherlands and the USA. 
Sales are currently focused on the USA, UK, Italy and France,  
four markets that between them account for around 80 per cent  
of the global e-vapour market.
The blu brand continues to gain traction in the UK and plans are 
being implemented to strengthen its position in the USA. 
Fontem also continues to focus on developing and licensing a 
range of patented technologies.
Logista
Logista is one of the largest logistics businesses in Europe, making 
more than 35 million deliveries a year to 300,000 outlets across 
Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
The business services tobacco and non-tobacco customers and 
has established a long track record of delivering sustainable value. 
On a constant currency basis distribution fees were down 1 per 
cent to £749 million and adjusted operating profit increased by  
2 per cent to £154 million.
Cost control measures and efficiency improvement programmes 
continued to mitigate the impact of tobacco volume declines in 
tobacco logistics. In non-tobacco logistics there was growth in  
the pharma and transport businesses.
The Logista team continues to focus on managing costs and 
generating new growth opportunities to drive the profitable 
development of the business.
Cost Optimisation
Our cost optimisation programme remains on track to save  
£300 million per annum from September 2018. 
£85 million was realised in the year through a range of initiatives 
that are reducing complexity, driving operational efficiencies and 
securing further global procurement benefits.
Reducing complexity and implementing new ways of working 
through the ongoing refinement of our operating model enhances 
our ability to efficiently manage cost and provides opportunities to 
further develop our margins.
Capital Discipline 
We use our substantial cash flows to create returns for 
shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business. 
Our commitment to capital discipline underpins our focus on cash 
generation and the effective management of our working capital.
We increased cash conversion to 97 per cent, up from 91 per  
cent last year.
As a result of the USA acquisition adjusted net debt increased  
to £11.6 billion. We reduced adjusted net debt in the existing 
business by £1.1 billion, taking the total reduction over the last  
two years to £2.1 billion.
Dividend growth was again strong at 10 per cent and during  
the year we began quarterly dividend payments to provide 
shareholders with more regular cash returns.
Outlook
We delivered a good performance in 2015 and in the year ahead 
we will continue to focus on further strengthening the business  
and improving the quality of our growth.
Maintaining momentum behind our Growth and Specialist Brands 
and maximising opportunities for Fontem Ventures and blu are  
key priorities.
The diversity of our geographic footprint provides considerable 
opportunities for growth. We have large shares in Returns Markets 
and will concentrate on effectively managing these positions, while 
maximising profit delivery. In Growth Markets we expect a headwind 
from Iraq and Syria in the first half but see continued portfolio and 
pricing opportunities as we target share and profit growth.
Our expanded USA business has had an excellent first few  
months and we look forward to a full year’s contribution from  
ITG Brands. The portfolio is performing in line with our plans and 
integration is progressing exceptionally well, providing a great 
platform to build on.
Cost optimisation and capital discipline underpin our growth 
strategy, enhancing our resilience, improving margins and releasing 
funds to invest in growth.
Looking to the year ahead, we expect first quarter volumes will 
continue to reflect the situation in Iraq and Syria as well as a strong 
comparator quarter for volumes last year, while first half revenue 
should benefit from stronger relative pricing. Overall, we are well 
placed to meet expectations for the coming year.
Challenges will persist in some markets but we have the assets  
and capabilities to further drive quality growth in this environment. 
We have the brands, the footprint and the people to make 2016 
another successful year of value creation.
Alison Cooper
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
How We Measure Our Performance
Key Performance Indicators 
We use key performance indicators and the 
supporting metrics in the Operating Review to 
measure the progress we make in delivering 
our strategy. These measures reflect our 
priorities and are used to monitor and  
drive business performance.
Performance
Our Growth Brands outperformed market trends, with underlying 
volumes up 7 per cent compared with market declines of 4 per 
cent. Excluding Iraq and Syria, volumes were up 14%.
Definition
Volumes are measured on a stick equivalent basis to reflect 
combined cigarette and fine cut tobacco volumes.
Growth Brand Volumes
1
(bn)
2015 2014 2013
129
131
145
2015 2014 2013
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
1
 
(pence)
210.7
203.4
212.5
Performance
Reported adjusted earnings per share rose by 4 per cent.  
On a constant currency basis the increase was 8 per cent.
Definition
Adjusted earnings per share represents adjusted profit after tax 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, 
excluding shares held to satisfy employee share plans and shares 
purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Performance
Tobacco net revenue was impacted by foreign exchange 
movements and conditions in Iraq and Syria. Excluding these 
effects, tobacco net revenue was up by 5 per cent.
Definition
Tobacco net revenue comprises tobacco revenue less duty  
and similar items, excluding peripheral products.
2015 2014 2013
Tobacco Net Revenue
1
(£bn)
7.0
6.6
6.3 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Performance
Return on Invested Capital (RoIC) declined due to the  
USA acquisition.
Definition
RoIC measures the effectiveness of capital allocation and is 
calculated by dividing adjusted net operating profit after tax  
by invested capital.
Performance
Our focus on cash generation and effective working capital 
management increased cash conversion to 97 per cent. 
Definition
Cash conversion is calculated as cash flow from operations before 
interest and tax payments less net capital expenditure relating to 
property, plant and equipment, software and intellectual property 
rights as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Performance
In 2015 we outperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 95 per cent. With 
dividends reinvested, £100 invested in Imperial Tobacco five years 
ago would now be worth £224.60 compared with £129.80 if 
invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Definition
Total shareholder return is the total investment gain to shareholders 
resulting from the movement in the share price and assuming 
dividends are immediately reinvested in shares.
2015 2014 2013
Return on Invested Capital 
(%)
15.1
14.2
11.0
2015 2014 2013
Cash Conversion Rate
1
(%)
86
91
97
90
125
160
195
230
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Imperial Tobacco
FTSE 100
Total Shareholder Return
1
1 KPIs used as bonus and LTIP performance 
criteria for Executive Directors. See 
Remuneration Report on page 49 for  
more information. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14
OPERATING REVIEW 
14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
We manage our markets based on the strategic roles they play, with markets prioritising 
Growth or Returns. Our portfolio priorities are focused on driving the performance of our 
Growth and Specialist Brands.  
Brand Performances 
Our Growth and Specialist Brands are the most important assets in our portfolio and together they account for 56.9 per cent of our tobacco 
net revenue, up 270 basis points. The rest of our portfolio consists of Portfolio Brands, local and regional brands that fulfil a variety of roles. 
Some add to our revenue momentum, while others will create more value by being migrated into Growth Brands. 
Growth Brands 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014 Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%) 6.6 5.5
R
+110bps 
Net revenue (£m) 2,862 2,736 +4.6% +13.5% +11.7% 
Percentage of Group volumes 50.9 44.5 +640bps 
Percentage of tobacco net revenue 45.8 42.6 +320bps 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. R See page 83 for details of restatements made to 2014 comparatives. 
Growth Brands have broad consumer appeal. They generate a significant amount of our volume and revenue and our aim is to increase  
the contribution they make to the business. 
Growth Brands outperformed the market in the year with underlying volumes growing 7.1 per cent, against a backdrop of market volume 
decline in our geographic footprint of 3.5 per cent. We improved the share of Growth Brands from 5.5 per cent to 6.6 per cent and increased 
underlying net revenue by 11.7 per cent.  
Growth Brands accounted for 50.9 per cent of our total volumes, up from 44.5 per cent last year, and 45.8 per cent of tobacco net revenues, 
up from 42.6 per cent last year. Excluding Iraq and Syria, underlying Growth Brand volumes increased by 13.9 per cent and underlying net 
revenue increased by 14.9 per cent. 
Specialist Brands 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014
R
Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Net revenue (£m) 693 743 -6.8% 0% -0.7% 
Percentage of tobacco net revenue 11.1 11.6 -50bps 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. R See page 83 for details of restatements made to 2014 comparatives.  
Specialist Brands appeal to specific consumer groups across the tobacco spectrum. Net revenue declined in the year, largely due to lower 
sales of Gitanes in Iraq and Syria. Excluding this impact, underlying net revenue was up 2.9 per cent.  
Market Performances 
We divide our footprint into Growth and Returns Markets. In Growth Markets we prioritise long-term share and profit growth and in Returns 
Markets the focus is on sustainable profit delivery and effective management of our strong share positions.  
Growth Markets 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014
R
Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  6.1 6.4 -30bps 
Tobacco net revenue (£m) 1,449 1,513 -4.2% +4.2% -2.5% 
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 409 334 +22.3% +19.0% 
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  47.0 47.9 -90bps 
Growth Brand volume (bn SE) 46.4 50.9 -8.9% -16.0% 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. R See page 83 for details of restatements made to 2014 comparatives.  
We continue to build good momentum across these territories, although results, particularly of our Growth Brands, were held back by the 
Near East. Against a backdrop of industry volume declines of 5.5 per cent in Growth Markets, underlying net revenue declined by 2.5 per 
cent. Adjusted operating profit increased by 19.0 per cent, reflecting the impact of last year’s stock optimisation programme which reduced 
the level of stock held by distributors. Excluding Iraq and Syria, underlying net revenue was up 4.5 per cent and adjusted operating profit was 
up 27.0 per cent.   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 
Country Performance 
Italy We grew our cigarette share with JPS, supported by Davidoff which is available in key cities.  
Greece Revenue was up, with Davidoff performing well and increasing sales of Rizla, and we successfully completed  
the migration of Maxim into JPS. 
Sweden and Norway Volume, revenue, profit and share were all higher as we further built on our snus position with another excellent 
performance from Skruf, supported by gains from Knox.  
Turkey Our results were impacted by significant price competition and we implemented a restructuring programme  
to reduce costs and strengthen our performance.  
Iraq and Syria Volumes, largely of Growth Brands, declined considerably due to deteriorating conditions in territories where  
we have a high presence. Cost saving initiatives elsewhere in the Group offset the financial impact. 
Saudi Arabia Contributions from West, Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes enhanced our share in a growing cigarette market.  
Egypt We improved our cigarette share as we continued to build our presence with Davidoff and Parker & Simpson. 
Japan Positive progress was underpinned by cigarette share gains from West and a focus on developing long-term 
retailer partnerships. 
Taiwan Davidoff performed well, supported by our new marketing campaign, although our overall cigarette share was 
held back as a result of a decline in West following a price increase.  
Vietnam Regulatory changes and excise-driven price increases have significantly fuelled illicit trade, impacting our volume 
and share performance. 
Cambodia Price competition undermined the positive progress of Fine. In response we extended the brand franchise with  
the launch of Fine Blue to strengthen our position. 
Russia Portfolio initiatives and strong pricing have strengthened our delivery in this key market. We stabilised our share, 
with Maxim performing particularly well. 
Kazakhstan We improved our market share with contributions from West, Davidoff and Parker & Simpson. 
USA Market 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014 Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  9.5 
Tobacco net revenue (£m) 707 507 +39.4% +30.0% +39.4% 
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 375 236 +58.9% +47.2% 
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  13.7 22.0 -830bps 
Growth Brand volume (bn SE) 3.1 3.1-1.7% +10.1% 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
Our enhanced revenue and profit performance reflects the contribution from ITG Brands since the completion of the acquisition of assets  
from Reynolds American on 12 June 2015. The table above reflects the combined performance of ITG Brands and our existing USA 
operations. The net contribution of the acquisition to the USA performance was tobacco net revenue of £242 million and volumes of  
five billion, increasing our total USA volumes to 13.2 billion. 
The percentage of tobacco net revenue generated by Growth Brands declined, as a consequence of the larger post-acquisition portfolio. 
The acquired cigarette brands – Winston, Salem, Kool and Maverick – performed well in the fourth quarter, maintaining stable market shares. 
In addition, USA Gold gained share in key focus states.  
As a result of the USA acquisition our Growth and Specialist Brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015. Winston has been 
added to Growth Brands, replacing USA Gold, which becomes a Portfolio Brand, and Kool has joined our Specialist Brands. 
Our new portfolio strategy is primarily focused on growing Winston and Kool in the premium segment and Maverick and USA Gold in the 
discount segment, and the development of these brands is being supported by new retail merchandising programmes. 
Competitor discounting impacted our mass market cigar performance and we are responding by strengthening the retail focus of the  
cigar business model and enhancing the consumer appeal of our key brands Dutch Masters and Backwoods. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
OPERATING REVIEW continued 
 
16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Returns Markets  
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014
R
Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  26.2 26.4 -20bps 
Net revenue per ‘000 SE (£) 22.1 23.4 -5.7% +2.8% +2.8% 
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 2,111 2,235 -5.5% +1.3% 
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  50.9 43.2 +770bps 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. R See page 83 for details of restatements made to 2014 comparatives. 
We continue to make positive progress in Returns Markets, where we focus on maximising profit and broadly holding our share.  
Against a backdrop of industry volume declines of 1.4 per cent, we grew adjusted operating profit by 1.3 per cent, with strong results  
in Returns North offsetting the impact of the weak operating environment in Returns South. 
We grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 2.8 per cent and our market share was 26.2 per cent. Growth Brands performed  
well, generating 50.9 per cent of tobacco net revenue, up by 770 basis points. 
Returns Markets North 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014 Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  25.0 24.8 +20bps 
Net revenue per ‘000 SE (£) 25.8 27.0 -4.7% +3.6% +3.7% 
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 1,475 1,511 -2.4% +4.0% 
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  53.6 46.7 +690bps 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
We achieved good results in Returns Markets North, increasing net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 3.6 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit by 4.0 per cent. Growth Brands delivered 53.6 per cent of tobacco net revenue, up from 46.7 per cent, and we grew our 
market share by 20 basis points to 25 per cent. 
Country Performance 
UK We maintained our market leadership and extended our share in the growing sub-economy cigarette segment. 
The Lambert & Butler franchise benefited from the good performance of L&B Blue and Fontem Ventures 
continued to focus on building the presence of blu e-cigarettes. 
Germany Our overall market share was down slightly but both revenue and profit increased as we delivered another  
strong financial performance.  
Benelux We continued to extend our presence in the growing make-your-own category, although our overall share  
was down. 
Australia Another excellent performance from JPS, now the leading brand in the market, resulted in further revenue,  
profit and share growth. 
New Zealand Good results from JPS and West led to further improvements in our cigarette and fine cut tobacco shares. 
Azerbaijan We enhanced our market-leading position with further growth in our cigarette share. 
Ukraine A strong portfolio performance, including gains from the newly-launched Parker & Simpson, improved our 
cigarette share. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 
Returns Markets South 
 Full Year Result Change 
 2015 2014
R
Actual 
Constant 
 Currency
1
Underlying
1
Market share (%)  28.0 28.8 -80bps 
Net revenue per ‘000 SE (£) 17.5 19.0 -7.7% +1.0% +0.8% 
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 636 724 -12.2% -4.2% 
Growth Brands % tobacco net revenue  46.0 37.1 +890bps 
1 See Performance Measures table on page 1. R See page 83 for details of restatements made to 2014 comparatives. 
The impact of the weak operating environment in Spain, France and Morocco continued to hold back our overall results in Returns South, 
with Morocco in particular impacting our market share and profit performance. We made good progress in further building the contribution 
from our Growth Brands, with these brands generating 46.0 per cent of tobacco net revenue, up from 37.1 per cent last year. 
Country Performance 
Spain We improved our profit delivery against a background of slower industry volume declines and began the migration 
of Ducados to JPS. 
France We made gains in fine cut tobacco and strengthened our portfolio with the migration of Fortuna to News,  
although our overall share was down.  
Portugal Another strong performance from JPS was behind our market share gains. 
Czech Republic Our Growth Brands, particularly Parker & Simpson, performed well in a growing market and we increased  
revenue and profit. 
Algeria Our volumes and share increased following a good performance from Gauloises Blondes. 
Ivory Coast Our revenue performance benefitted from further gains from Fine. 
Morocco Conditions remained challenging, with excise-driven price increases impacting industry volumes and fuelling 
growth in illicit trade. Our share declined and we continued to focus on portfolio initiatives to strengthen  
our position.  
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
Effective cost and cash management 
supports our sales growth strategy.  
We use our substantial cash flows to  
create returns for shareholders, pay down 
debt and reinvest to support growth.  
By focusing on cash generation and 
working capital we are embedding a 
stronger capital discipline in the business. 
When managing the performance of our business we focus on  
non-GAAP measures, which we refer to as adjusted measures.  
We believe they provide a useful comparison of performance from 
one period to the next. These adjusted measures are supplementary 
to, and should not be regarded as a substitute for, GAAP measures, 
which we refer to as reported measures. The basis of our adjusted 
measures is explained in our accounting policies accompanying  
our financial statements, and reconciliations between reported and 
adjusted measures are included in the appropriate notes to our 
financial statements. Percentage growth figures for adjusted  
results are given on a constant currency basis, where the effects  
of exchange rate movements on the translation of the results of  
our overseas operations are removed. 
Another Year of Significant Progress 
The progress we continue to make in simplifying our brand portfolio 
is improving execution and consistency in our markets. Reducing 
complexity and streamlining brand management is also a key part of 
the success we are achieving in managing our cost base, optimising 
working capital and controlling our cash flow. Results were affected 
by market size declines and by difficult trading caused by the conflict 
in Iraq and Syria. Strong price/mix and cost control initiatives 
mitigated these impacts. We completed the acquisition of assets in 
the USA on 12 June 2015. The net benefit to the Group results was 
an additional volume of five billion stick equivalents and £242 million 
of net revenue that is reported within the USA division, now 
separately disclosed within our results. 
Underlying revenue and volume results remove the impact of last 
year’s stock optimisation programme and give a clearer picture of 
how well we performed. Underlying tobacco net revenue was up  
by 3 per cent, or 5 per cent excluding Iraq and Syria. Net revenue  
in Returns Markets increased by 1 per cent. Growth Markets net 
revenue was up by 4 per cent excluding Iraq and Syria, or down  
3 per cent with these markets included. The proportion of Group  
net revenue from our Growth Brands increased, improving the  
quality of our revenue and strengthening our sustainability. Total 
adjusted operating profit increased 7 per cent to £3 billion. 
 
Group Results – Constant Currency Analysis 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Year ended 
30 September 
 2014
R
Foreign 
Exchange
Constant 
currency 
growth
Year ended  
30 September 
2015 Change
Constant 
currency 
change
1
Tobacco net revenue 6,421 (447) 277 6,251 -3% +4% 
Growth Markets net revenue 1,513 (128) 64 1,449 -4% +4% 
Returns Markets North net revenue 2,801 (230) 78 2,649 -5% +3% 
Returns Markets South net revenue 1,600 (137) (17) 1,446 -10% -1% 
USA Division net revenue 507 48 152 707 +39% +30% 
Tobacco adjusted operating profit 2,805 (115) 205 2,895 +3% +7% 
Growth Markets adjusted operating profit 334 11 64 409 +22% +19% 
Returns Markets North adjusted operating profit 1,511 (96) 60 1,475 -2% +4% 
Returns Markets South adjusted operating profit 724 (58) (30) 636 -12% -4% 
USA Division adjusted operating profit 236 28 111 375 +59% +47% 
Logistics distribution fees 838 (78) (11) 749 -11% -1% 
Logistics adjusted operating profit 166 (16) 4 154 -7% +2% 
Adjusted operating profit 2,981 (131) 203 3,053 +2% +7% 
Adjusted net finance costs (515) 36 12 (467) +9% +2% 
Adjusted EPS 203.4p (7.6p) 16.7p 212.5p +4% +8% 
R  Restated on adoption of IFRS 11. 
1  See Performance Measures table on page 1. 
  
Oliver Tant Chief Financial Officer Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 
Group Earnings Performance 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Adjusted 
 
Reported 
2015 2014
R
 2015 2014
R
Operating profit   
Tobacco 2,895 2,805   1,910 1,925 
Logistics 154 166   74 84 
Eliminations 4 10   4 10 
Group operating profit 3,053 2,981   1,988 2,019 
Net finance costs (467) (515)   (261) (543) 
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 29 29   29 49 
Profit before taxation 2,615 2,495   1,756 1,525 
Taxation (541) (521)   (33) (80) 
Profit for the year 2,074 1,974   1,723 1,445 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence) 212.5 203.4   177.4 148.5 
R  Restated on adoption of IFRS 11. 
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Performance Measures 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 
Operating profit Net finance costs 
 
Earnings per share (pence) 
2015 2014
R
2015 2014
R
  2015 2014
R
 
Reported 1,988 2,019 (261) (543)   177.4 148.5 
Acquisition costs 40 13 – –   4.2 1.4 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 697 644 – –   57.5 35.8 
Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments – – (226) (12)   (22.7) (2.5) 
Post-employment benefits net financing costs  – – 20 40   1.5 2.8 
Restructuring costs 328 305 – –   24.9 23.1 
Tax on unrecognised losses – – – –   (28.6) (5.3) 
Items above attributable to non-controlling interests – – – –   (1.7) (0.4) 
Adjusted 3,053 2,981 (467) (515)   212.5 203.4 
R  Restated on adoption of IFRS 11. 
 
Logista again delivered an encouraging performance in a challenging 
environment with adjusted operating profit of £154 million compared 
with £166 million last year. This decline is driven primarily by foreign 
exchange movements; on a constant currency basis adjusted 
operating profit grew 2 per cent. The overall decline in distribution 
fees was mitigated by the performance of non-tobacco products, 
price increases and cost control measures. 
Adjusted net finance costs were lower at £467 million (2014: £515 
million), as our cost of debt reduced. Reported net finance costs 
were £261 million (2014: £543 million), reflecting net fair value and 
exchange gains on financial instruments of £226 million (2014: gains 
of £12 million) and post-employment benefits net financing costs of 
£20 million (2014: costs of £40 million). 
After tax at an effective adjusted rate of 20.7 per cent (2014: 20.9 per 
cent), adjusted earnings per share grew by 4 per cent to 212.5 
pence. The reported effective tax rate for 2015 was unusually low 
largely due to the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 
as a deferred tax asset, on the basis that taxable profits will arise in 
the relevant entities following the acquisition of assets in the USA. 
Reported earnings per share were 177.4 pence (2014: 148.5 pence) 
reflecting non-cash amortisation of £697 million (2014: £644 million) 
and restructuring costs of £328 million (2014: £305 million), mainly  
in respect of our continuing cost optimisation programme and 
integration activities following the USA acquisition. The weakening of 
the euro and Russian rouble, partially offset by a stronger US dollar, 
negatively impacted reported and adjusted measures. On a constant 
currency basis, adjusted earnings per share grew 8%. 
The restructuring charge for the year of £328 million (2014: £305 
million) relates mainly to our cost optimisation programme 
announced in 2013 (£159 million) and integration costs relating to  
the businesses acquired in the year (£139 million). The balance  
of £30 million relates primarily to the closure of our UK vending 
operation and the restructuring of our Chinese operations. The total 
restructuring cash flow in the year ended 30 September 2015  
was £256 million (2014: £120 million). 
Our cost optimisation programme is expected to deliver savings  
of £300 million per annum from September 2018 and to have a cash 
implementation cost of in the region of £600 million. More than £85 
million was realised in 2015 through a range of initiatives focused on 
reducing complexity in the business, driving operational efficiencies 
and securing further global procurement benefits. The cumulative 
savings to date are £179 million. In 2015, the cash cost of the 
programme was £169 million (2014: £81 million) bringing the 
cumulative net cash cost of the programme to £340 million. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued 
20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Cash Flows and Financing 
Our continued focus on capital discipline is driving working capital 
benefits with a further improvement in operating cash conversion  
to 97 per cent, up from 91 per cent last year. Cash conversion also 
benefited from a favourable working capital position from the  
USA acquisition. 
Reported and adjusted net debt increased by £3.5 billion, which 
represents a £1.1 billion debt reduction before taking into account 
the £4.6 billion cost of the USA acquisition. £0.8 billion of the net 
debt reduction comes from continued focus on managing working 
capital, lower capital expenditure and a working capital benefit from 
the USA acquisition, partly offset by acquisition and integration costs. 
A £0.3 billion foreign exchange benefit also contributed to the net 
debt reduction. 
The denomination of our closing adjusted net debt was split 
approximately 56 per cent euro and 44 per cent US dollar. As at  
30 September 2015, the Group had committed financing in place of 
around £16.7 billion. Some 28 per cent was bank facilities, 3 per cent 
was commercial paper and 69 per cent was raised through capital 
markets reflecting refinancing activity during the financial year. This 
included issuance of $4.5 billion in the US debt capital markets in 
July 2015 to refinance a proportion of the syndicated acquisition 
bank facilities. Following refinancing activity and additional 
cancellation of the facilities, as a result of free cash flow generation 
during the 2015 financial year, the outstanding syndicated acquisition 
facilities now total $1.2 billion. 
Our all-in cost of debt reduced 60 basis points to 4.3 per cent  
(2014: 4.9 per cent) as a result of our recent refinancing. Our interest 
cover was 6.3 times (2014: 5.9 times). We remain fully compliant  
with all our banking covenants and remain committed to retaining  
our investment grade ratings. 
Taxation Policy 
Our global tax contribution through both indirect and direct taxation 
exceeds £16 billion annually (excluding logistics). 
Our policy is to ensure compliance with tobacco taxation and 
product supply legislation and to engage constructively with revenue 
authorities worldwide to help combat illicit trade. We also engage 
with revenue authorities and governments more widely on policy 
issues to voice opposition to aspects of regulation and excessively 
high tobacco taxation that are likely to increase illicit trade to the 
detriment of consumers, governments and the Group. 
In the field of direct taxation, it is our policy to maintain a sustainably 
low effective tax rate in order to enhance shareholder value whilst 
having due regard to financial and reputational risk. 
In pursuing this policy it is of paramount importance that our actions 
comply with all national and international laws on corporate and 
tobacco taxation and that there is full disclosure and transparency  
in our dealings with all revenue authorities. 
The Board is kept informed of all material developments relating  
to our taxation position, with updates on tax matters regularly 
provided to the Audit Committee. 
Dividends 
We have delivered another year of 10 per cent growth in our dividend, 
demonstrating our commitment to growing shareholder returns. 
The Group has paid two interim dividends of 21.4 pence per share 
each in June 2015 and September 2015, in line with the announced 
switch to quarterly dividend payments, giving shareholders a more 
regular cash return. 
The Board has approved a further interim dividend of 49.1 pence  
per share and will propose a final dividend of 49.1 pence per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 141.0 pence per share,  
up 10 per cent and in line with our policy of growing dividends by  
at least 10 per cent per year over the medium term. 
The third interim dividend will be paid on 31 December 2015, with an 
ex-dividend date of 19 November 2015. Subject to AGM approval, 
the proposed final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2016, with an 
ex-dividend date of 4 February 2016. 
Liquidity and Going Concern 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that we always have sufficient capital 
markets funding and committed bank facilities in place to meet 
foreseeable peak borrowing requirements. 
In reviewing the Group’s committed funding and liquidity positions, 
the Board considered various sensitivity analyses when assessing  
the forecast funding and headroom requirements of the Group in  
the context of the maturity profile of the Group’s facilities. The Group 
plans its financing in a structured and proactive manner and remains 
confident that sources of financing will be available when required. 
Based on its review, the Board is of the opinion that the Group as a 
whole and Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have adequate resources to 
meet their operational needs for a period of at least 12 months from 
the date of this report and conclude that it is appropriate to prepare 
the financial statements on a going concern basis. 
 
 
 
 
Oliver Tant 
Chief Financial Officer  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 
Operating responsibly is integral to the way 
we do business.  
How we behave today impacts our business tomorrow. It supports 
our sales growth strategy and is vital for our long-term success.  
We measure our performance against the progress we make in four 
key areas: being responsible with products, having a rewarding 
workplace, respecting natural resources and reinvesting in society. 
These form the basis of our responsibility framework; they are the 
responsible focus for our business, our people and our stakeholders.  
Our values and Code of Conduct are embedded in the business  
and drive our responsible approach. We also have policies, internal 
controls and risk management processes that underpin our sales 
growth strategy. 
The following pages provide an overview of our Corporate 
Responsibility (CR) achievements. We have not included any 
performance data for our USA acquisition, which was completed  
on 12 June 2015. This data will be included in next year’s report. 
More detailed information on our performance can be found in  
the responsibility section of our corporate website  
www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr 
You can also read our new stakeholder panel report online. This 
captures views on our approach to CR from a broad range of 
stakeholders, including leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers, 
investors, employees, consumers, non-governmental organisations, 
environment specialists, and independent consultants. The panel 
highlighted many positive aspects of our CR approach and gave 
constructive feedback on areas where we can drive improvement. 
Our thanks to all participants for their time and comments. 
We’re proud of the contribution our people make to our responsibility 
agenda and continue to be encouraged by the positive feedback  
we receive externally. We scored 98 per cent in the Business in the 
Community (BiTC) Corporate Responsibility Index and 76 per cent in 
the RobecoSAM assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.  
Responsible with Products 
Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our products 
every day. We recognise there are societal concerns about the health 
risks of smoking and acknowledge that smoking is a cause of serious 
diseases in smokers. We ensure our products are manufactured, 
marketed and sold responsibly. 
High Product Standards 
Consumers and other stakeholders rightly expect us to adhere to 
high product standards. We rigorously test and analyse our products 
to ensure we continue to build our knowledge and understanding. 
This enables us to fulfil our duty of care to consumers and meet  
legal requirements for scientific disclosures and submissions. 
We have continued our focus on the testing and scientific analysis  
of e-vapour products. Our research shows that the vast majority  
of tobacco smoke constituents are not present in e-vapour products, 
whereas they are still generated by heated tobacco products. 
E-vapour products therefore have potential as a reduced risk product 
relative to tobacco products and we have shared our findings with 
regulators and other key stakeholders.  
Clear and consistent e-vapour regulation is critical for consumer 
understanding and the long-term development of the category. We 
support regulation that has high consumer safety and product quality 
standards and believe that e-vapour products that make smoking 
cessation claims should be covered by pharmaceutical legislation. 
Unlike e-vapour products, heated tobacco products contain  
tobacco and should therefore be regulated in line with conventional 
tobacco products.  
Marketing Products Responsibly 
Legislation that governs the way tobacco should be advertised and 
marketed to the public exists in most markets. We also have our own 
stringent International Marketing Standards (IMS), which we updated 
during the year and published in full on our corporate website. 
All Imperial Tobacco Group companies and employees, and the 
agencies we work with around the world, must adhere to our IMS 
and local legislation at all times. To support IMS awareness and 
understanding we have developed an e-learning module that has 
been translated into 12 languages.  
Fighting Illicit Trade 
The illegal market in tobacco undermines society’s efforts to ensure 
that tobacco products are marketed responsibly. 
We advocate a partnership approach to fighting illicit trade and seek  
to work with governments and customs and law enforcement agencies 
to combat the problem of tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting.  
We have 24 Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with authorities 
around the world and continue to invest in our long-term anti-illicit 
trade partnership agreement with the European Commission and 
Member States. During the year, we renewed our MoU with 
authorities in Vietnam and signed a new MoU agreement with Latvia.  
Working with Retailers 
We continue to build strong relationships with retailers around the 
world and actively encourage them to sell responsibly. Tobacco 
products are for adults and should never be sold to children. We 
reinforce this through our support for initiatives aimed at preventing 
tobacco sales to children, including schemes that highlight the 
minimum age at the point of sale. 
During the year we commissioned an independent report to analyse 
smoking trends in 20 of our key markets and the findings are helping 
us to further develop initiatives to prevent children from gaining 
access to tobacco products. 
Rewarding Workplace 
We strive to provide a safe and pleasant working environment  
that inspires employees to do their best. We want to see skills and 
talent flourish and are proud of the diversity and collaborative spirit  
of our workforce. 
A Diverse Workforce 
Following the acquisition of a number of assets in the USA in the 
year, we now employ around 36,400 people. Our employees come 
from many different backgrounds and cultures, enriching the vibrancy 
of our business. 
Around 40 per cent of our workforce is female, with some 14,000 
women employed. At a senior leadership level, 22 per cent of the 
Operating Executive and 22 per cent of the Board are female, as  
of 30 September 2015. 
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is 
highlighted in our Code of Conduct and underpinned by our values. 
This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and giving fair 
consideration to applications for employment, career development 
and promotion, irrespective of an employee’s gender, race, religion, 
age or disability.  
Our values capture the essence of what it’s like to be part of Imperial 
Tobacco; the combination of the ‘We’ values and the ‘I’ values reflect 
the collective and individual behaviours we expect from our people. 
Our efforts to provide the best possible working environment and 
opportunities for our people have been recognised with a number  
of Best Employer awards in the year in markets such as the USA, 
UK, Spain, Italy, Slovenia and Poland. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued 
22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Engaging with our People 
We are committed to employee engagement throughout the 
business. Employees are kept informed of our strategic priorities  
and performance through communication channels, including 
meetings, emails, videos, the intranet, webinars, conferences  
and employee magazines. 
Our global engagement survey is carried out every 18 months.  
The survey gives employees the opportunity to have their say and 
provides us with valuable feedback that is used to develop local  
and global action plans. The 2015 survey generated an excellent  
83 per cent response rate and again showed a slight increase in 
overall engagement levels. This is encouraging, given the ongoing  
change that is taking place in the business. 
Workplace Health and Safety 
The health and safety of people who work for us is of paramount 
importance and we have reduced Lost Time Accidents by 67  
per cent over the last six years. We were saddened that a sales 
employee in Ukraine and a contractor in Vietnam were fatally injured 
in road traffic incidents. This has further strengthened our resolve to 
address occupational road risk management and other critical safety 
areas, such as working from heights.  
We commissioned an independent health and safety capability  
and culture review to learn more about how we can improve our 
performance. We developed an action plan based on the review 
recommendations and this is now being implemented across  
the business. 
We made further progress in installing world-class management 
systems aligned to the international occupational health and safety 
management standard OHSAS 18001 across our operations. Five 
additional sites in Senegal, Congo, the UK, Germany and France were 
certified as having reached this standard during the year. In total, 76 
per cent of our sites have achieved the OHSAS 18001 accreditation. 
Reinvesting in Society  
We are proud to be part of many different communities around the 
world and have developed strong partnerships with a wide range  
of stakeholders in the communities we serve. 
Human Rights 
We have a role to play in addressing human rights issues, including 
slavery and human trafficking. This respect for human rights is  
reflected in our Code of Conduct, which is published on our website, 
our responsible sourcing programme SRiTP (Social Responsibility in 
Tobacco Production) and our Supplier Standards which we use to 
exert influence in our business and supply chain. We have a focus  
on anti-discrimination and harassment, a healthy and safe working 
environment, responsible procurement, supplier partnerships and 
environmental responsibilities.  
All employees and business partners must comply with the Code  
of Conduct, now available in 29 languages. We provide Code of 
Conduct training for all employees and all suppliers are required to 
complete detailed self-assessment questionnaires. Suppliers are 
periodically subject to onsite audits against these self-assessments. 
More information on Supplier Standards and our responsible 
sourcing programme is available on our website. 
The governance of companies may vary but our respect for human 
rights extends throughout our operations. It is implicit in our 
employment practices and within the high standards we expect  
from suppliers and other business partners. 
To ensure we continue to adequately address our responsibilities  
in relation to human rights, we plan to conduct an independent 
Human Rights Impact Assessment across our value chain in 2016.  
A full statement on human rights is available on our website. 
Supplier Standards 
Working with supply chain stakeholders to address important issues 
such as leaf sustainability and child labour is a priority. 
Our leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers must adhere to our 
Code of Conduct. All our leaf suppliers are required to participate in 
our SRiTP programme, which encourages continual performance 
improvement in areas such as employment, health and safety, 
environmental management and good agricultural practices. We 
were pleased to see our overall leaf supplier performance against the 
SRiTP criteria increase from 75 per cent to 79 per cent in the year. 
We have a Supplier Qualification Programme for non-tobacco 
material (NTM) suppliers. This is a self-assessment questionnaire that 
covers business conduct, environmental management, health and 
safety and employment practices. We conduct periodic onsite audits 
to confirm these assessments. 
Farmer Livelihoods and Child Labour  
Child labour is a risk in agricultural supply chains and we continue to 
support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco (ECLT) Foundation 
in tackling this problem. Working with the Foundation, we help 
communities understand child labour issues and seek better access 
to education and health services for children. 
Our Leaf Partnership Committee continues to supports projects 
aimed at enhancing the livelihoods of farmers by improving their 
overall labour and fuel efficiency in Malawi, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, 
Madagascar and Mozambique. 
Supporting Communities 
We fund projects that are connected to the communities in  
which we operate. We particularly focus on supporting the most 
disadvantaged communities around our factories, offices and 
tobacco sourcing activities.  
Our Altadis Foundation supports initiatives to improve livelihoods  
in areas where we have operational sites. During the year the 
Foundation commissioned an independent report to evaluate 
partnership projects aimed at supporting disadvantaged people in 
countries such as Vietnam, Chad and Kyrgyzstan. The report found 
that in total, these projects had benefited around 31,000 people 
directly and 60,000 people indirectly.  
We also commissioned an independent socio-economic impact 
study on our operations in West Africa, which highlighted that in 
2012-13 we created more than £50 million in terms of wealth 
generated, benefiting employees and their communities, 
governments and local shareholders, and paid around £95 million in 
direct and indirect taxes. The full study is available on our website. 
We continue to be encouraged by the growing number of employees 
who volunteer to get involved in projects linked to our responsibility 
framework. This year we launched our first global volunteering drive, 
entitled Mobilise for May, which involved employees supporting over 
140 projects in 56 countries worldwide, exceeding our global target 
of 50,000 hours volunteered. 
Respecting Natural Resources 
We respect natural resources and are committed to further  
reducing our environmental impact, minimising waste and improving 
energy efficiency. 
We have set long-term targets for our key environmental 
performance indicators, energy, waste and water use. Changing our 
factory footprint to align with market demands will always mean that 
our year-on-year environmental data trends are unlikely to be linear, 
so we track our progress against our 2009 baseline year. In line with 
other major companies, we measure our performance against the 
amount of net revenue we generate. Lower net revenue in 2015, 
driven by foreign exchange movements and conditions in the Near 
East, adversely affected CO2 emissions, energy consumption and 
waste. This was the main driver of the slight increases shown for  
all three measures in our Responsibility Performance Indicators. 
Our environmental data is independently verified one year in arrears.   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 
Climate Change and Energy  
We are well on track to reduce our carbon footprint and energy 
usage by 20 per cent by 2020, having already reduced our energy 
consumption by 14 per cent over the last six years.  
We’re original members of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), 
which works with organisations to measure and reduce their 
emissions and climate change impacts. We continue to make 
improvements in this area, achieving a 98 per cent score from  
the CDP in 2015. 
Resource Efficiency 
Getting the most out of the materials and natural resources we use  
is good for our business and good for the environment. Our mantra 
is: reduce, re-use and recycle. 
We have steadily reduced waste and waste to landfill in recent years 
and continue working with suppliers to help them reduce their 
environmental impact. Since the 2009 baseline year our 
environmental waste has reduced by 8 per cent and the amount  
of waste to landfill has reduced by 25 per cent. 
In manufacturing we are increasing the use of environmental 
management systems that are independently certified to the 
environmental management standard ISO 14001. Ninety per cent  
of our factories are now certified to this standard.  
Reforestation Programmes 
In Africa, where wood is the primary fuel source and the majority  
of tobacco farmers are smallholders, we are actively involved in 
protecting natural forests and reducing wood consumption.  
We have continued to work with our African tobacco suppliers  
on a major tree planting programme that aims to achieve wood 
sustainability in Africa by 2020. We also scaled up our support for 
more efficient tobacco curing barns, providing funding for 1,270 
rocket barns. These barns run a faster curing process that uses 
significantly less wood than conventional barns. 
Water Management 
Water security is a key environmental issue that continues to rise in 
importance. Our operations and supply chain are both reliant on  
the secure supply of water.  
We have a strong track record of effectively managing water use  
and have reduced water consumption by 22 per cent since the 2009 
baseline year. In our factories we apply environmental management 
systems under the international standard ISO 14001 to reduce water 
use and manage waste water, and each location has its own local 
water management targets.  
We have also started to focus some of our Leaf Partnership projects 
towards water security, particularly in Africa. 
Environmental Reporting  
We report on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our tobacco 
operations which fall within our consolidated financial statements 
using the operational control reporting method. We report scope 1 
(direct) and scope 2 (indirect) emissions for which we are responsible 
using a methodology based on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition).  
Any deviations from this standard are described below. We have 
considered the seven main greenhouse gases and report in CO2 
equivalent. Our relative emissions are expressed against net tobacco 
revenue, which is consistent with the standardised CDP reporting 
format and facilitates meaningful comparison with other businesses 
that report both their emissions and financial fundamentals. 
Our scope 1 emissions include: emissions from stationary fuel 
combustion at our sites; emissions from mobile fuel combustion  
in our fleet of company vehicles; leakage of refrigerant gases; and 
process emissions from the Dry Ice Expanded Tobacco process  
at our expansion plants. Our scope 2 emissions include the indirect 
emissions resulting from the use of purchased electricity, heat and 
steam at our sites.  
This year we have changed the way we calculate emissions data and 
now apply the CO2 factors and calculation methodology for fossil fuels 
and electricity set out in the UK Department for Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) document ‘2014 Government GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’. This method splits 
scope 1 and 2 emissions into scope 1, 2 and 3 to more explicitly 
account for the transmission and distribution of electricity and fuel. 
This decreases our scope 1 and 2 emissions as scope 3 emissions 
are not reported. To improve transparency we have used the new 
methodology to recalculate historic data since our 2009 baseline year 
and this is shown in the graphs overleaf. We have also modified our 
calculation of CO2 and energy from our sales fleet cars to increase the 
amount of emissions which are captured to 97 per cent (the remaining 
3 per cent being beyond our current reporting capabilities). 
Our reported emissions include all main sources from our 
manufacturing sites over which we have operational control, our 
expansion plants in Cadiz and Reidsville, and our main offices (Bristol, 
Hamburg, Paris, Madrid and Casablanca). Operations not included, as 
deemed immaterial or beyond our current reporting capabilities, relate 
to greenhouse gases other than the seven greenhouse gases, the  
JR 800 Cigar retail outlets in the USA, small sales offices (being those 
offices not listed above which contribute less than 0.05 per cent of  
our total scope 1 and 2 emissions), our Habanos joint venture and  
our Cambodian distribution operation.  
Scope 1 emissions arising from mobile fuel combustion in our fleet  
of company vehicles are specified and for the latest financial year are 
unverified estimates based on data from the previous financial year.  
All other emissions for the latest financial year are unverified estimated 
data based on the first six months of the latest financial year and the 
final six months of the previous financial year. Verified data is reported 
12 months in arrears to allow for internal checking, validation and 
external assurance. 
We continue to work on improving our Group reporting boundaries 
and the timeliness of data. More information on our environmental 
reporting approach can be found in the Responsibility section of  
our website. 
In addition to our reported emissions we also report information 
provided by Logista, which is managed remotely due to commercial 
sensitivities and does not report wholly into Group data. This year 
Logista has provided verified data for absolute emissions within  
scope 1, 2 and 3 for FY14 and we anticipate reporting on verified 
FY15 data in next year’s report. Logista has also voluntarily extended 
its carbon footprint verification to include waste generated in 
operations, franchises, purchased goods and services of 14  
additional business units. 
Logista Data FY14  
 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
CO2 equivalent emissions 
(Tonnes) 35,731 4,455 213,081
Logista’s scope 1 emissions relate to refrigerant gas emissions and 
the stationary and mobile fuel combustion, including emissions from 
transport operations for which Logista has operational control. Scope 
2 emissions include the indirect emissions resulting from the use of 
purchased electricity at Logista’s sites. Scope 3 emissions 
correspond to transport activities for which Logista has no 
operational control. 
Logista’s verified relative CO2 equivalent emissions within scopes 1 
and 2 amount to 47.4 tonnes per million pounds of FY14 distribution 
fees (our non-GAAP revenue measure for Logista). More detail is 
available at www.grupologista.com  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued 
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Key data reported in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 September 2015 has been independently assured under the limited 
assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC. They have also been engaged to look at our description of alignment with 
AA1000APS (2008) principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness. Some of the selected information covered by this assurance  
is clearly highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report and all of the selected information is included in the 
Corporate Responsibility section of the website www.imperial-tobacco.com/cr where their limited assurance report can be found. PwC has 
provided Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10. Earlier data was assured by another provider. 
Responsibility Performance Indicators 
 
1  Environmental data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. The monetary value ‘£ million’ is for tobacco net revenue  
(or logistics distribution fees, where appropriate). FY14 data has been assured by PwC; see website for more information. 
* Unverified FY15 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of FY14 and the first six months of FY15. Verified data for FY15 will be published next year. 
2 Verified accident and absence data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification. Sickness absence includes non-work related and work 
related absence. FY14 data has been assured by PwC; see website for more information. 
** Provisional unverified FY15 data is provided. Verified data for FY15 will be published next year. 
3 All our tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2014, which provides specific guidance for improvement against a variety of criteria. See our website 
for more information. Data for 2014 has been verified. We report 12 months in arrears to allow for the reporting and analysis of data. 
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015** 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015** 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
2015* 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Baseline
Absolute CO
2
 Equivalent Emissions (Tonnes)
1
36,907
183,632
99,906
36,907
182,321
124,599
36,907
188,939
121,383
36,907
176,577
111,688
36,907
162,146
103,739
36,907 36,907
155,129
88,470 86,273
154,302
 CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions Scope 2
 CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions Scope 1 
excl ﬂeet fuel
 CO
2
 emissions 
Scope 1 ﬂeet fuel sales
Absolute Energy Consumption (GWh)
1
990
145 145
996
145
984
145
939
145
876
145 145
824 803
Energy 
consumption 
manufacturing 
and ofﬁces
Energy 
consumption 
ﬂeet fuel sales
CO
2
 Equivalent Emissions (Tonnes/£million)
1
48.6
50.6 50.2
46.4
43.2 42.7 43.4
Energy Consumption (kWh/£million)
1
172,227
167,938
163,287
154,650
145,699
147,284
148,433
Waste (Tonnes/£million)
1
8.25
8.00
7.47
7.85
7.24
7.63
7.94
Waste to Landﬁll (Tonnes/£million)
1
2.08
1 .90
1.70
1 .61
1 .55 1 .57
1 .41
Water Consumption (m
3
/£million)
1
321
300
290
274
235
251 245
Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (per 200,000 hours)
2
1.57
1.30
1.08
0.86
0.73
Sickness Absence Rate (% of days worked)
2
3.73
2.97
2.76
2.55
2.72
Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production Progress: 
Total Weighted Mean (%)
3
60
63
68
71
75
79
0.45
0.52
2.64
2.43 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 
In this section we outline the risks we face 
across our business and our approach to 
managing them. 
Our Approach 
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and capitalise on growth 
opportunities requires effective management of the risks we face. 
Our risk management system is designed to identify risks that could 
prevent the achievement of strategic objectives as early as possible, 
and to ensure that appropriate and agreed mitigation is in place. The 
approach seeks to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Where 
risks do crystallise, we respond immediately to reduce the impact  
of that risk and ensure that the causes and consequences have  
been evaluated and any wider implications assessed. 
Our risk management approach provides a framework which allows 
for the identification and management of Group risks, and the risks 
specific to a location. In a business with a global market footprint as 
diverse as ours, it is imperative that resource is directed at the most 
relevant risks and locations and that our management are sufficiently 
supported to achieve positive outcomes. This approach is integrated 
into both our business planning, and viability assessment processes, 
ensuring that risks are considered in these activities. 
In the current year we have made a number of improvements to the 
risk management approach, including the introduction of a control 
self-assessment process within the business which provides 
management with a means of understanding requirements and 
accountability for the effective operation of key controls. 
The results of the self-assessment are reviewed by the relevant 
centres of excellence and reported to the Audit Committee. 
Additionally a year end certification process is completed, under 
which management confirms that risk mitigation controls have 
operated effectively throughout the year, or that appropriate further 
mitigating actions are being taken to address control weaknesses. 
This certification process also includes confirmation that entities have 
complied with our policies, including the Code of Conduct and anti-
bribery requirements, as well as fraud prevention processes. As a 
separate exercise, all our senior managers are required to certify  
that related party transactions have been disclosed. 
Our people have the opportunity to make confidential disclosures 
about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing via an independent 
external service (Speaking Up), details of which have been translated 
into 41 languages and can be found in the Investors section of our 
corporate website. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the FRC’s UK Corporate 
Governance code (formerly known as the Combined Code) for 
Directors, the Group’s systems of internal control are designed and 
operated to support the identification, evaluation and management  
of risks affecting the Group. They facilitate the effective and efficient 
operation of our business, provide assurance regarding the integrity 
of our internal reporting and are designed to comply with relevant 
laws and regulations, across all areas of operations. These systems 
are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new 
risks emerge.  
Our risk management approach continues to develop, ensuring  
we continue to identify, manage and monitor the risks we face. 
 
  
Risk Management Framework 
Board & Committees
Operating Executive
Deﬁnes the culture of the organisation and sets the standards
of business practice within which our people perform their roles
Regulator
Process and control
implementation and
development
Embed and monitor effective risk management,
legal compliance, and related assurance processes
1
st
 line of defence
Operationalise policies,
procedures, training
and standards
Management
control
Internal Audit
2
nd
 line of defence 3
rd
 line of defence
External Audit
Code of Conduct
Group committees
Risk management
Centres of excellence
Financial oversight Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26
RISK MANAGEMENT continued 
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Risk Management Framework  
We operate an integrated approach, aligned to the “three lines of 
defence” model to ensure that our operational management has  
the tools, knowledge, and support to manage risks as part of its 
business as usual business processes. 
Our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and 
developing the Group’s framework of governance, including  
our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up 
(whistleblowing) process. 
The Board and Audit Committee 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy and 
related risk appetite. In addition, the Board is accountable for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk 
management and internal control, with the Audit Committee assisting 
in the discharge of this responsibility. 
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls system and is assisted by the 
Group’s Finance department, which, through the Risk Management 
function, oversees the completion of the annual assessment of  
risk management and internal control. The Audit Committee  
reports to the Board on its activities and the process, and makes 
recommendations and escalates significant risks or issues to the 
Board as appropriate. 
While risk management and the identification of existing and 
emerging risks are the responsibility of all our people, the Board is 
supported in the assessment of key risks through work facilitated  
by the Group’s Risk Management function. 
An annual bottom-up review is undertaken by local management 
across the organisation which assesses our principal areas of risk 
and uncertainty across each part of the business. This assessment 
includes a review of both Group and local risks, along with an 
assessment of the mitigating controls in place to manage the risks. 
The separation of risks into Group and local classifications enables 
appropriate focus at both senior and local management level, and 
assists us in the identification of emerging risks. 
The calibration of risks by the Board and Operating Executive 
ensures a consistent top-down method in how we identify, assess 
and prioritise risks, as well as assessing our existing measures to 
manage and mitigate those risks. 
The Operating Executive (OPEX) 
The OPEX is responsible for the effective operational management 
and mitigation of the Group’s key risks. The successful and effective 
implementation of Group strategies into our operational activities  
is the responsibility of OPEX and its functional and divisional 
management teams. These management teams are responsible for 
ensuring that the Group’s strategic goals are achieved in line with 
Group policies and standards, and that we conduct business in 
compliance with our Code of Conduct. This tone from the top 
extends to responsibility for the monitoring of operational and 
financial performance, the assessment and control of financial, 
business and operational risks and the maintenance and ongoing 
development of a robust control framework and environment in  
their areas of responsibility. 
Operational Management 
Across the business, operational management is responsible for  
the implementation and monitoring of the Group’s processes  
and systems of control. This includes ensuring that our people  
have appropriate training and knowledge to perform their roles  
in accordance with the Group’s policies and standards and  
defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority. 
The Group’s functional and divisional management structures  
enable a continuing process for the identification, evaluation and 
management of significant risks to the achievement of business 
objectives, and support the controls in place. 
Centres of excellence 
In addition to the oversight provided by our management structures 
the Group also benefits from the work carried out by subject matter 
experts it employs to manage specific financial, technical or legal and 
regulatory risks, set standards and policies, share best practice and 
provide related training to the business. These departments form a 
key part of our “second line of defence”.  
These departments design and help implement appropriate control 
structures and monitoring in order to manage the relevant risks. They 
also act as centres of excellence, providing advice and assistance  
to the business to help facilitate local solutions where necessary. 
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial 
policies and standards adopted within the Group. It also manages 
our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and accurate 
provision of information, which enables the Board to discharge  
its responsibilities, including the production of our half-yearly and 
annual accounts. 
Group Finance is supported by a network of finance managers 
throughout the Group who have the responsibility and accountability 
to provide information in keeping with our policies, procedures and 
internal best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual. 
Assurance 
The Group Internal Audit department provides independent 
assessment on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems  
and processes of risk management and control across the Group.  
It achieves this through the completion of reviews which are 
approved by, and reported to, the Audit Committee. 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 
Principal Risks Overview 
In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the impact  
of these risks upon the business. Not all of these factors are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive,  
as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment. 
As is common with most large organisations the Group is subject to general commercial risks; for example, geo-political and socio-economic 
developments, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, and the impact of competition. 
In addition, as with other multi-national organisations a large amount of the Group’s revenue in the year was generated in markets outside  
the UK and the Group is therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates which could impact the Group’s financial results  
which are reported in pounds sterling. The Group is also exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its foreign subsidiaries,  
its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies and foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and derivatives.  
Risk – Reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market 
What affects us   What we do  
Changes in regulation   
Regulatory restrictions exist in many of our markets which impact our 
consumers by influencing availability, demand and freedom to use 
our products. The introduction of excessive and disproportionate 
regulation, both present and future, could have an adverse effect  
on consumer choice, potentially impacting the demand for our 
products, as well as the cost of continuing to comply with such 
increasing regulation. 
Several of the US cigarette brands acquired in the year are menthol 
brands or include menthol variants and any future Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) regulation of menthol in cigarettes, in particular, 
may adversely affect our ability to derive the full benefits expected 
from the acquisition. 
The Group’s regulatory engagement strategy seeks to inform 
key stakeholders about our views, to ensure balanced debate and 
proportionate regulatory outcomes. This engagement includes: 
– consulting with external experts to provide advice and guidance; 
– engagement, where possible, with regulators; 
– providing industry-specific information to ensure that regulators 
have a more balanced fact base; 
– highlighting the unintended consequences of proposed regulatory 
change; and 
– making legal challenges against excessive regulation. 
We prioritise the Group’s expertise and resources according to  
the relevant key regulatory issues. Cross-market liaison is promoted 
within the Group to ensure best practice and opportunities from 
markets already impacted are identified, understood, and applied. 
Increases in excise duty   
Governments across the world perceive the use of tobacco excise 
rates to be a means of raising additional public funding and/or the 
satisfying of public/private tobacco control agendas. 
We engage with local tax and customs authorities as well as 
politicians/legislators and media where appropriate to provide 
informed input to the unintended consequences of disproportionate 
excise increases. The widening price differential between tobacco 
products in neighbouring countries increases both the availability  
and attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic  
duty paid product. 
We take commercial steps to mitigate the impact of this issue 
through the monitoring and compilation of ongoing analysis to ensure 
strategic price and product offerings exist in the context of the excise 
duty structures in each market. Through our portfolio of products we 
are able to meet consumer preferences across different price points.
Illicit trade   
The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is a widening gap 
between the price of legitimate and illegitimate product. As a result 
the legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to the 
significant impact and increasing threat of illicit trade. The sale of 
counterfeit product and smuggled “illicit whites” in our markets act  
as a direct competitor to legitimate domestic duty-paid, travel retail 
and duty-free products, eroding our volumes and market shares. 
We seek to partner with governments and law enforcement agencies 
around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives, and work alongside  
the European Commission’s Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and law 
enforcement agencies both in the EU and elsewhere. 
In order to achieve this we employ specialist teams to provide 
effective support to the business, governments, and law enforcement 
agencies, performing market analysis and intelligence to provide 
appropriate and targeted solutions to the combating of illicit trade. 
We maintain strong business conduct standards and controls, both 
for our business and our first-line customers, in order to prevent our 
products being diverted. 
Macro-economic conditions   
A material decline in the economic conditions affecting consumers, 
notably an impact upon disposable income, may change their 
consumption patterns, including an increased propensity to  
purchase illicit products. 
We monitor and analyse consumption patterns and economic 
indicators in order to ensure that our current and future portfolio 
provides the consumer with a range of products across different 
price points. This analysis is a key input to our product development 
and pricing strategies. 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued 
28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Risk – Marketplace 
What affects us   What we do  
Marketplace   
The Group has a significant presence in mature European markets 
and any material change in the economic circumstances of, and/or 
our performance in, our key European markets may affect our future 
profit development and have an adverse impact on the Group’s 
revenue or profits. 
Should concerns regarding the future of the euro, or the exit of  
one or more Eurozone countries, continue or increase, consumer 
spending patterns could be impacted. Such an event could also cause 
disruption to the business as a whole, including impact upon financing 
arrangements (both Group and local), and could also have a short-term 
impact on our manufacturing and supply chain operations. 
As with all businesses our route to the customer could be affected  
by political instability, civil unrest, and sanctions, and these could  
also have a detrimental effect on our manufacturing and supply  
chain operations. 
We continuously monitor our exposure and review our portfolio and our 
existing processes and policies to minimise our economic exposure 
and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of potential conditions 
that may exist should one or more of these future events occur. 
Our international footprint and comprehensive portfolio, further 
enhanced by the US acquisition, provide an increasingly balanced 
exposure to both EU and non-EU markets, with the core of our 
market concentration being in countries with a lower risk of political 
instability and civil unrest. 
The alignment of our market management structures to key strategic 
drivers enables a more consistent approach to the evaluation of risks 
and opportunities. 
Our global manufacturing and supply chain operations have crisis 
management and contingency plans in place which are regularly 
reviewed in line with the risks to their ongoing requirements. 
Financing   
What affects us   What we do  
Financial market risk    
We have a significant level of committed debt, financed in the debt 
capital markets and bank loan markets. We expect any future 
required refinancing of this debt prior to maturity to be obtained from 
these markets and for us to be able to rely on funds being available 
from our bank counterparties when requested to be drawn.  
A fall in certain of our credit ratings would raise the cost of our 
existing committed funding and could raise our cost of future funding 
and affect our ability to raise debt from the breadth of funders we 
currently enjoy. 
At 30 September 2015 approximately 44 per cent of the Group’s 
debt was at fixed levels of interest, and therefore the Group is 
exposed to movements in interest rates which could result in higher 
funding costs and cash outflows on the remainder. 
We also place cash deposits with and enter into derivative financial 
transactions with a diversified group of financial institutions, and we 
would be affected if those counterparties did not honour their 
commitments. 
We have a strong focus on cash generation and the reduction in 
our debt over time. 
Our Group Treasury Committee (GTC) oversees the operation of 
Group Treasury in accordance with the terms of reference set out  
by the Board. 
The GTC sets a framework for the treasury function to operate  
within. The framework, which is periodically fully reviewed, covers, 
amongst other things, financing, liquidity and risk management  
which includes interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty  
risk. The GTC receives regular reporting on all matters covered  
by the framework. 
Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics  
are regularly forecast and updated in line with business performance. 
This information is considered alongside conditions in the debt capital 
and bank loan markets to ensure we are well placed to meet the future 
financing needs of the Group and optimise its cost and the availability 
of finance. 
Legal and regulatory compliance   
What affects us   What we do  
Failure to comply with legislation   
Failure to comply with local and international laws (including 
sanctions) may result in investigations. This could cause damage  
to our reputation and has the potential for financial and criminal 
penalties for both the Group and individuals. 
We closely monitor developments in international sanctions and 
actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant  
with them. 
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, 
mandate that all employees must comply with legislation relevant to 
a UK listed company and other legislation in the countries in which 
we operate. E-learning courses are provided to management and 
relevant employees to ensure understanding of key regulatory and 
compliance requirements. 
Additionally, senior management certify the compliance of their  
area of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an  
annual certification process. Exceptions are reported and  
mitigating actions taken. 
Steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide 
expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and 
monitoring of compliance. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 
Legal and regulatory compliance continued 
What affects us   What we do  
Tobacco and e-vapour products litigation   
Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group in a number 
of countries.  
More claims may be brought in the future, including claims for 
personal injury and the recovery of medical costs allegedly incurred 
in treating smokers. Claims may also be brought against the Group 
in relation to the use of e-vapour products. The USA, the jurisdiction 
with the greatest prevalence of smoking and health-related litigation, 
is also now a key country for the Group. If any claim were to be 
successful, it might result in a significant liability for damages and 
might lead to further claims against us. Regardless of the outcome, 
the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may  
not be fully recoverable. 
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group 
has been successful and/or resulted in the recovery of damages.  
The American cigarette brands acquired in the year have been 
acquired without historic product liabilities and with an indemnity 
from Reynolds in respect of any liabilities relating to the period  
prior to acquisition. 
We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the defence 
of product liability and consumer protection law litigation to provide 
advice and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and 
manage litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
Significant market positions   
Our significant market position in certain countries could result 
in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant 
competition authorities, including the potential for monetary  
fines and negative publicity. 
The Group’s policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, 
mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in 
the countries in which we operate. 
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing  
the obligations and requirements of competition laws. 
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising  
in competition law to provide advice and guidance regarding 
interpretation of and compliance with competition laws. 
In the event of any investigation (which may or may not result in 
actions being brought against us), we cooperate fully with the 
relevant authority making the investigation. 
Material strategic initiatives   
What affects us   What we do  
 
In order to achieve its strategic objectives, the Group may be 
required to undertake material initiatives, including acquisitions  
and change programmes. 
The Group also operates within a regulatory environment that  
can require the implementation of material initiatives to address  
changing legal requirements. 
In particular, on 12 June 2015 we completed the acquisition of 
certain American cigarette and e-cigarette brands and assets 
previously owned by Reynolds and Lorillard. The integration of the 
acquired assets could involve particular challenges and require 
management attention that would otherwise be devoted to running 
our business, and we may be unable to realise the potential benefits 
of the acquisition to the extent envisaged and within the timeframe 
contemplated. This could have an adverse effect on the expected 
revenue, profit and financial condition of the Group. 
The Group operates a formal project sign-off approach, ensuring  
an appropriate and transparent review and selection of project 
proposals aligned to the Group’s strategic and operational objectives. 
To support the successful delivery of material initiatives within  
the organisation the Group has developed and implemented  
a standardised project management process that provides a  
robust framework to enable effective change management. 
This approach is adopted across the Group and provides a 
consistent and disciplined approach to the management of material 
initiatives, supported by the employment of project managers across 
the Group to ensure the right skills are available to successfully 
deliver such initiatives. 
The majority of the Group’s material change programmes are 
coordinated under a single umbrella programme, ensuring  
alignment of deliverables management of interdependencies,  
and limiting the impact of change upon our operational activities. 
The OPEX receives regular reporting on the progress of key  
projects. This provides a continuing assessment of deliverables  
in changing markets, and the evaluation of interdependencies  
across the business. 
In respect of the USA acquisition, we have a strong track record  
of successfully integrating acquired businesses into the Group  
and, building on this previous experience, we put in place senior 
integration resources and a strong management team for the 
enlarged USA business. We were also able to utilise the period since 
entering into the acquisition agreement in July 2014 to put in place 
detailed and comprehensive integration plans that we were then  
able to begin execution of immediately upon completion. 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued 
30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Viability Statement 
The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a 
longer period than the 12 months required by the going concern 
requirements of the Code. This longer-term assessment process 
supports the Board’s statements on both viability, as set out below, 
and going concern, made on page 20. 
The Group’s annual corporate planning processes include 
completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business 
plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance 
and prospects. During the year, additional business plans and 
financial projections were prepared to specifically consider the 
prospects of the enlarged USA business, and its impact on the 
Group’s future performance and funding requirements, both prior  
to and following completion of the acquisition of certain USA assets  
in June 2015. 
The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate 
planning processes consider the Group’s cash flows, committed 
funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding requirements, 
banking covenants and other key financial ratios, including those 
relevant to maintaining our investment grade ratings. 
Where appropriate, sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the 
resilience of the Group and its business model to the potential impact 
of the Group’s principal risks, or a combination of those risks. This 
stress-testing takes account of the availability and effectiveness of the 
mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce  
the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks. In considering the 
likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Board’s 
regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal  
control systems, as described on page 40, is taken into account.  
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable 
over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it 
possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Group’s longer-
term viability, based on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken,  
is the three-year period to September 2018. This period reflects the 
period used for the Group’s business plans and has been selected 
because, together with the planning process set out above, it gives 
management and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future  
in the context of the industry environment. The Board has considered 
whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three-
year horizon and confirmed that there are none.  
The Board confirms that its assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency and/or liquidity, and which are set out 
in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 25 to 30  
was robust.  
On the basis of this robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, and on the assumption that they are managed or 
mitigated in the ways disclosed, the Board’s review of the business 
plan and other matters considered and reviewed during the year,  
and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken and described 
above, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they  
fall due over the period to September 2018.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Mark Williamson Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 
 
 
“Acting with honesty and integrity 
underpins the sustainable delivery 
of our sales growth strategy.” 
This was another year of significant achievement for the Group and  
I am particularly pleased that, following many months of negotiation 
and planning by both the Board and management, we successfully 
completed the acquisition of a number of assets in the USA, one of 
our key Growth Markets. Following completion we made a number  
of senior management changes to ensure that we have the right 
structure in place to lead the enlarged Group. At Board level Matthew 
Phillips, previously Corporate Affairs Director, was appointed Chief 
Development Officer. In this new role, Matthew retains his corporate 
and legal affairs responsibilities whilst taking on responsibility for 
corporate development and our standalone subsidiary Fontem 
Ventures, including the e-cigarette brand blu. 
The Board is responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders  
for the strategy, activities and financial performance of the Group, 
together with the efficient use of its resources and social, 
environmental and ethical matters. 
In this report we provide an overview of the work of the Board and  
its Committees and our governance framework, which incorporates 
our Code of Conduct (available on our website) and sets the tone  
for the way we work both in respect of relationships between 
colleagues and with our customers and suppliers. 
I am committed to ensuring we act with honesty and integrity,  
which we achieve through our embedded governance framework, 
transparent approach and having the right leadership. Accordingly 
our Board is composed of Directors from differing international 
backgrounds combined with a wide range of professional and 
sector-specific experience. This ensures that we have a balanced 
Board with the right skills and experience to contribute fully to 
effective decision making. 
The standards of behaviour we require from our employees are  
often more stringent than those required by local regulations. Our 
policies and Code of Conduct cover key issues such as acceptable 
business practices, ethical and legal compliance matters, physical 
and data security as well as regulatory, governance, and 
occupational health, safety and environmental issues. 
More details of our governance framework, including how our  
sound and effective corporate governance practices support our 
strategy, are set out in the following sections and in the discussion  
on effectively managing the risks we face on page 25. 
 
 
 
Mark Williamson 
Chairman 
Ensuring our Annual Report is fair, balanced  
and understandable 
A key requirement of our Annual Report it that it is fair, balanced 
and understandable. When considering this requirement the  
Audit Committee and the Board considered a number of long-
established and embedded processes used in the preparation  
of the Annual Report, including: 
– reviewing the use of adjusted measures and their 
appropriateness in aiding users of our financial statements  
to better understand our performance year on year; 
– the drafting of the Annual Report by appropriate senior 
management, who regularly monitor regulatory changes, and 
have been formally briefed regarding the fair, balanced and 
understandable regulations, with overall co-ordination by the 
Director of Group Communications to ensure consistency  
both across sections and with other external statements; 
– the extensive verification process undertaken to ensure  
factual accuracy; 
– comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report 
undertaken by members of the OPEX and other senior 
management; 
– the consideration and review of an advanced draft by Group 
Internal Audit and the Disclosure Committee; 
– the Audit Committee discussed the draft Annual Report with both 
management and PwC and, where appropriate, challenged the 
content and any judgements and assumptions used; 
– all Audit Committee and Board members received drafts of the 
Annual Report with sufficient time for review and comment prior 
to the year-end meetings in October 2015; and 
– the Audit Committee reviewed the final draft at its meeting in 
October 2015 on which it is required to express its opinion prior 
to consideration by the Board. 
After consideration of the above processes and review of the 
Annual Report, the Directors confirm that they consider, taken as 
a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32
5 6
7
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
3
9
4
8
10
2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 
1. Mark Williamson, CA (SA) 
Chairman of the Board  
Skills and experience Mark is a qualified 
accountant, who brings considerable financial and 
general managerial experience to our Board. Mark 
was Chief Financial Officer of International Power 
plc until 2012 and is experienced in managing 
relationships with the investor and financial 
communities. Prior to joining International Power 
plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller and 
Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group. 
Appointment Mark joined the Board in July 2007 
and was appointed Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director in February 2012. He was 
subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman of  
the Board in January 2013 before being made 
Chairman in February 2014. 
External appointments Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committees of National Grid plc and of Alent plc. 
D N Chairman 
2. Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA 
Chief Executive Officer 
Skills and experience Since being appointed as 
Chief Executive Officer Alison has led the 
development and implementation of the Group’s 
sustainable sales growth strategy. Alison joined  
the Group in 1999 and, through a number of  
senior roles, has contributed significantly to  
the international expansion of the Group. 
Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007. 
Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010. 
External appointments Non-Executive Director, 
Inchcape plc since July 2009. 
E 
3. Oliver Tant, BSc, CA (Scotland) 
Chief Financial Officer 
Skills and experience Oliver held a number of 
senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, 
including Global Managing Director Financial 
Advisory and Private Equity Division and Head  
of UK Audit. 
He was also a member of both the UK and 
German boards of KPMG. Oliver has international 
experience in change management, organisational 
restructuring, corporate finance and mergers  
and acquisitions. 
Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors 
in October 2013 and became Chief Financial 
Officer in November 2013. 
External appointments No external Director 
appointments. 
E 
4. Matthew Phillips, LLB 
Chief Development Officer 
Skills and experience Matthew held a number of 
senior roles prior to his appointment to the Board 
as Corporate Affairs Director in June 2012 and  
has been integral to the development and 
implementation of the Group’s strategy.  
In his current role he is responsible for Group 
Strategy, Corporate Development and Fontem 
Ventures and corporate, legal  
and regulatory affairs.  
Appointment Appointed Director in June 2012. 
Appointed Chief Development Officer, June 2015. 
External appointments No external Director 
appointments. 
E 
5. Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PhD,  
M Inst M 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Ken, an independent 
management consultant, brings significant 
experience of the consumer goods sector in the 
Asia Pacific region. He was President, Asia Pacific 
of Allied Domecq from 1996 until its acquisition by 
Pernod Ricard in 2005.  
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior 
management positions in the Asia Pacific region 
with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers 
& Vintners Ltd (now part of Diageo plc). 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
April 2006. 
External appointments Non-Executive Chairman of 
Elemental Energy Technologies Limited. Director of 
Elemental Energy Technologies (Asia) Pte Limited 
and New Zealand Quality Waters (2006) Limited. 
D A N R 
6. David Haines 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience David brings considerable 
senior level board experience and is currently 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe 
Group Sárl and Chief Executive Officer of Lixil 
Water Technology Group and he joined Grohe in 
2004 from Vodafone Group PLC where he was 
Global Marketing Director. He is also a former 
Chairman of Vimpelcom A/O. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director  
in February 2012, and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee in April 2012. 
External appointments Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Grohe Group Sárl and Chief 
Executive Officer of Lixil Water Technology Group. 
D A N R Chairman 
7. Michael Herlihy, MA (Oxon), 
Solicitor 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel 
for Smiths Group plc. He was formerly General 
Counsel and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions  
for ICI PLC with overall responsibility for corporate 
acquisitions and divestments and has extensive 
experience of both private and public market 
transactions. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
July 2007. In February 2014 he was appointed as 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
External appointments Serves on the board of 
Compass Partners International LLP and is 
currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc. 
D A N R  
8. Karen Witts, FCA 
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience Karen brings significant 
financial and management expertise to the Board. 
She is currently Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Director of Kingfisher plc and was 
previously Chief Financial Officer of the Africa, 
Middle East, Asia and Asia Pacific Region, at 
Vodafone plc. Prior to that Karen held a number  
of senior positions at BT, including Chief Financial 
Officer of BT Retail and Managing Director 
Operations Openreach.  
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 
February 2014. 
External appointments Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Director of Kingfisher plc. 
D A N R 
9. Malcolm Wyman, CA (SA)  
Non-Executive Director 
Skills and experience As a qualified accountant  
and former Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller  
plc, with responsibility for the group’s financial 
operations, corporate finance and development 
and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only a 
wealth of financial expertise but also considerable 
general management experience to the Board.  
He also meets the recent and relevant financial 
experience requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director  
in October 2011 and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in February 2012. 
External appointments Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Nedbank Group Limited, listed on  
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and a Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Serco Group plc. 
D A Chairman N R 
10. John Downing, MA, Solicitor 
Company Secretary 
Skills and experience John joined Imperial in 2005 
having worked for the law firm Linklaters. 
He has had a number of senior legal roles in 
Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal 
in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis 
acquisition. He has considerable experience in 
managing key corporate projects related to 
financing, business development and other 
commercial matters. 
Appointment Appointed Company Secretary  
in June 2012. 
S 
Key 
E Executive Director 
D Non-Executive Director 
S Company Secretary 
N Succession and Nominations Committee 
A Audit Committee 
R Remuneration Committee 
 
Skills and experience of 
our Board 
The in-depth tobacco experience of our 
Executive Directors is complemented by  
the diverse global experience of our Non-
Executive Directors, which includes FMCG, 
finance, mergers and acquisitions, and  
sales and marketing.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 
Board 
34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
“The continued focus on our 
growth strategy and business 
transition creates sustainable  
value for shareholders.” 
Members  
Mark Williamson 
Chairman  
Alison Cooper 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy 
 
Matthew Phillips  
Oliver Tant  
Karen Witts  
Malcolm Wyman 
 
John Downing 
Company Secretary 
Focus in 2015 
– completing the acquisition of assets, including a portfolio of USA 
cigarette brands and the e-cigarette brand blu, and commencing 
the integration of our enlarged USA business 
– investment prioritisation in our market and brand portfolios  
– continuing to support our standalone subsidiary Fontem Ventures, 
including the integration of the acquired e-cigarette brand blu 
– implementing new ways of working to simplify the business and 
improve our effectiveness and agility 
– continuation of our cost optimisation programme  
– focus on capital discipline to enhance cash conversion 
– ensuring regulatory engagement and preparedness 
– maintaining focus on our people agenda including building 
capabilities and succession 
– viability and risk management 
Focus for 2016  
– investment prioritisation to generate quality growth from key 
brands and markets and create new opportunities for Fontem  
– continue implementing new ways of working to simplify the 
business and improve our effectiveness and agility 
– drive further cost savings and capital discipline  
– further investment in our people including building capabilities  
and succession and improving engagement 
– continue the integration of the USA business and deliver against 
our business plan 
Overview 
The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our 
shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group. 
The Board’s role is to provide leadership to the Group, set its 
strategy and oversee its implementation. 
The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving our strategy 
management operates responsibly within our governance framework 
whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards. 
The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way 
they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having regard  
to the interests of other stakeholders. 
As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a 
schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision. These 
include approving the Group’s strategy, business plans, dividends 
and major financial announcements. The Board is also responsible 
for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding defined 
thresholds. 
Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for 
developing and implementing strategy and for day-to-day 
management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is 
supported by the Operating Executive (OPEX), which she chairs. The 
Board also delegates matters to Board Committees. Clearly defined 
terms of reference and written limits support these delegations.  
The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.  
It oversees operational execution and delivers our strategic and 
financial plans. The OPEX and Audit Committee also ensure that 
appropriate internal controls, which function effectively, are in place and 
effective risk management processes operate throughout the Group. 
Matters Considered by the Board in 2015 
Five principal scheduled Board meetings were held during the year 
 
2014
Nov-Dec Feb-Mar May
• Half year report
• Dividend
• Business performance
• Corporate development
• Group funding
• US acquisition update
• Overseas visit – research  
 and development   
 facility, Hamburg
• Cost optimisation
• Capital discipline
• Viability and risk   
 management
Apr
•  Report and accounts
•  Dividend 
•  Business  performance
•  Business  planning
•  Corporate   
 development
• US acquisition 
 class 1 circular
• Group funding
• Operating model 
• Group footprint
 development
• Cost optimisation
• Capital discipline 
Oct
• Business 
 performance
• Business plan
• Corporate 
 development
• Board evaluation
• Chairman and 
 NED fees
• Viability and risk  
 management
Sep
2015
Jan
• Strategy 
 meeting
• Business 
 performance
• US acquisition
 integration
Jun
• First quarter results
• Business performance
• Corporate 
 development 
• AGM
• Operating model
• Brand strategies
• Viability and risk   
 management
• Shareholder 
 audit
Jul-Aug
Mark Williamson Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
Succession and Nominations Committee  
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 
 
 
“Having the right people in place 
and appropriate succession plans 
ensures we can continue delivering 
significant returns to our 
shareholders.” 
Members  
Mark Williamson 
Chairman
1 
 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy 
Karen Witts  
Malcolm Wyman  
 
John Downing 
Company Secretary 
1 Unless dealing with the succession to the Chairman. 
 Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate. 
Focus in 2015 
– the appointment of Matthew Phillips to the role of Chief 
Development Officer 
– increasing the Committee’s focus on succession planning 
– identifying the skillset required for a new NED appointment  
and instructing Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann
2
 to identify  
appropriate candidates 
Focus for 2016  
– ongoing review of skillset and composition of the Board 
– continuing business updates and education for NEDs 
– Board and senior management succession planning 
2 Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann also provides online assessments to our sales 
function with a total value in the year of £40,000. 
Overview 
Role 
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition 
of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them  
to function effectively. Succession plans for the NEDs, Executive 
Directors and Group’s senior management, in particular the OPEX, 
are also kept under review.  
The Committee also retains an overview of the development of  
OPEX members together with the wider organisational structure  
and talent management.  
To reflect the Committee’s increased focus on succession planning it 
changed its name to the Succession and Nominations Committee. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website. 
Boardroom Diversity 
To maintain the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge, 
professional and geographic backgrounds and experience we look 
ahead to upcoming retirements to identify potential gaps and appoint 
individuals who are best suited to fill any vacancy. The Committee is 
mindful of the Davies Review on gender diversity but continues to 
embrace diversity in the widest sense, including diversity of thought. 
Appointing the best people to our Board is critical to the success of 
the Company; the search for candidates and any subsequent 
appointments are, therefore, made purely on merit regardless of 
gender, race, religion, age or disability. Given our commitment to 
appointing the best people and ensuring that all employees have an 
equal chance of developing their careers within the Group, we do  
not think it is appropriate to set targets for Board appointments. 
Women, including our Chief Executive, make up 22 per cent of  
our Board. We also have 22 per cent women on our OPEX.  
  Further details on our workforce diversity are set out on page 21. 
Director Development 
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors 
in order to build on their expertise and develop an ever more 
detailed understanding of the business and the markets in  
which we operate. 
In addition to the ongoing ‘NEDucation’ and training discussed  
on page 43, we held our April 2015 Board meeting in Hamburg 
and devoted a day to providing NEDs with insights into the local 
market strategy and the Group’s research and development 
activities. They also received updates on projects focused on 
building the brand equity of our tobacco products, discussed 
current product development strategies and received an 
introduction to our growing innovation pipeline. 
  
Mark Williamson Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES  
Succession and Nominations Committee continued 
36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Succession and Nominations 
Committee in 2015 
Election and re-election of Directors 
All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous selection 
process and subsequent recommendation by the Committee. 
The performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual 
Board evaluation process. Following the 2015 evaluation, a review  
of the independence of each NED, particularly in respect of those 
who have served six years or more, and consideration of attendance, 
the Board recommends the re-election of all Directors at our 2016 
AGM, with the exception of Ken Burnett who, having served on the 
Board for nine years, will be retiring at the AGM. 
Board succession 
During the year the Committee identified the profile and skillset 
required for a NED and instructed Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann  
to identify appropriate candidates. Within the Company’s policy  
of appointing the best people Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann were 
requested to give consideration to candidates who, in addition  
to meeting the profile and skillset, add to the overall diversity of  
the Board. 
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM  
Board
Succession and 
Nominations 
Committee
Audit  
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
Annual 
General 
Meeting and 
General Meeting
Total number of meetings in Financial Year 5 2 4 3 1
Number of meetings attended in Financial Year  
Executive Directors  
Alison Cooper 5/5 – – – 1/1
Oliver Tant  5/5 – – – 1/1
Matthew Phillips  5/5 – – – 1/1
Non-Executive Directors  
Mark Williamson 5/5 2/2 – – 1/1
Ken Burnett 5/5 2/2 4/4 3/3 1/1
David Haines
1
 5/5 2/2 2/4 3/3 1/1
Michael Herlihy  5/5 2/2 4/4 3/3 1/1
Karen Witts 5/5 2/2 4/4 3/3 1/1
Malcolm Wyman  5/5 2/2 4/4 3/3 1/1
1  David Haines was unable to attend two Audit Committee Meetings, however, he fully considered the papers before the meeting and provided his thoughts and 
recommendations to the Audit Committee Chairman. 
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.  
   
Male – 7
Female – 2
Board gender balance
8 years and over – 1
5 to 7 years – 2
3 to 5 years – 1
1 to 2 years – 2
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Malcolm Wyman Chairman
 
Audit Committee 
37 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 
“The Committee maintained  
its focus on its key priorities 
throughout the year including 
ensuring high standards of 
financial governance and  
the enhancement of the risk 
management framework and 
systems of internal control.” 
Members
1
 
 
Malcolm Wyman
2
 
Chairman 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Michael Herlihy  
Karen Witts
2
 
 
John Downing 
Company Secretary 
Other regular attendees 
 
Board Chairman 
Chief Financial Officer 
Director of Finance and Planning 
Group Financial Controller 
Director of Group Internal Audit
3
 
Deputy Company Secretary 
Representatives from PwC our 
external auditors
3
 
1 All members are independent NEDs. 
2 Malcolm Wyman and Karen Witts meet the Code’s requirement of having 
“recent and relevant” financial experience. 
3 At each meeting, both the Director of Group Internal Audit and PwC have  
the opportunity to meet with the Committee without management present. 
This report provides insight into the Audit Committee’s major 
activities and its deliberations in respect of the 2015 financial year to 
ensure the Group’s financial governance processes remain relevant, 
robust and of a high standard. Set out on page 39 are the key 
matters we considered during the year and our conclusions. 
We meet at key times within the Group’s reporting calendar, with 
comprehensive agendas covering all significant matters to be 
considered by the Committee. I also meet with management on  
an ad-hoc basis. 
Our auditors, both internal and external, provide the Committee  
with detailed reports on their audit work. These reports are reviewed 
and discussed and, where appropriate, challenged to ensure the 
Committee fully understands all issues and, if required, appropriate 
action can be instigated. I also meet with the Director of Group 
Internal Audit and the lead Audit Partner of our external auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), on a regular basis between 
Committee meetings. 
Management prepared and presented to the Committee a wide 
range of papers on key matters, which provided a sufficient 
understanding of each matter to facilitate discussions and enable 
effective decisions to be taken.  
Following updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 
the Committee spent time ensuring that additional requirements 
introduced by the Code were met by the Group. In particular the 
enhancements to the risk management framework and processes, 
and systems of internal control, were a focus area for the Committee. 
We also spent time considering the processes supporting the 
assessment of the Group’s longer-term solvency and liquidity which 
underlie the new viability statement. Following which we agreed that 
the appropriate period over which the assessment should be made 
for the viability statement is that of the Group’s business plan, being 
three years. 
I am satisfied our activities provided the Committee with a good 
understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during the 
year and, in conjunction with its oversight of the governance and 
operation of the Group’s significant controls and processes, 
ultimately enabled the Committee to draw the conclusions set out  
on page 40. 
 
 
 
 
Malcolm Wyman 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 38
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES  
Audit Committee continued 
38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Main objective 
To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance 
responsibilities relating to the Group’s external financial reporting, 
internal control systems, risk management process and framework, 
the internal audit function and the external audit. During the year we, 
as a Committee, achieved this by: 
– ensuring the integrity of our financial reporting and confirming that, 
taken as a whole, our Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy; 
– monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk management 
and internal control systems and speaking-up process; 
– maintaining appropriate oversight over the work and effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit department, including reviewing its audit 
findings and monitoring management’s responses;  
– scrutinising the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
PwC, including reviewing and approving the annual external audit 
plan, reviewing the audit findings, monitoring compliance with 
ethical and professional guidance and approving PwC’s terms  
of engagement; and 
– throughout the year, considering the key matters, detailed below, 
including taking account of PwC’s views.  
The Committee’s full terms of reference can be found on our 
website: www.imperial-tobacco.com 
 
Audit Committee Meetings held in respect of the 2015 financial year 
Four Committee meetings were held in respect of the 2015 financial year, at key times within our reporting and audit calendar and included 
the following matters on the agenda: 
2015
Mar Feb Jan Apr Sept Oct May – Aug
• Audit planning
• Group Internal 
Audit and Risk 
Management updates
• Treasury update
• External Auditors’ 
effectiveness
• US acquisition accounting
• Internal control
• Segmental reporting
• Half Year Report
• Impairment review
• External Auditors’ review 
of Half Year Report
• Tax
• External Auditors’ 
fees and independence
• US acquisition accounting
• Group Internal Audit and  
 Risk Management updates
• Internal control
• Tobacco related litigation
• Audit tendering
• Restructuring costs and 
beneﬁts
• Foreign Exchange 
management
• Impairment review
• Tax
• US acquisition accounting
• Group Internal 
Audit and Risk 
Management updates
• Complex supplier and 
customer agreements
• External Auditors’ report 
and independence
• Going concern and viability
• Foreign Exchange 
management
• Internal control
• Distributable reserves
• Restructuring costs
• Segmental reporting
• Annual report and accounts
• Foreign Exchange management
• Impairment review
• Going concern and viability 
statement
• External Auditors’ report
• Group Internal Audit and Risk 
Management updates 
• US acquisition accounting
• External Auditors’ fees and 
independence
• Internal control
• Tobacco related litigation
• Retirement beneﬁts
• Revenue recognition
• Use of adjusted measures
• Restructuring costs and beneﬁts
• Distributable reserves
2015
Feb – Mar Jan Apr Sept Oct May – Aug
• Audit planning
• Group Internal 
Audit and Risk 
Management updates
• Treasury update
• External Auditors’ 
effectiveness
• US acquisition accounting
• Internal control
• Segmental reporting
• Half Year Report
• Impairment review
• External Auditors’ review 
of Half Year Report
• Tax
• External Auditors’ 
fees and independence
• US acquisition accounting
• Group Internal Audit and  
 Risk Management updates
• Internal control
• Tobacco related litigation
• Audit tendering
• Restructuring costs and 
beneﬁts
• Foreign Exchange 
management
• Impairment review
• Tax
• US acquisition accounting
• Group Internal 
Audit and Risk 
Management updates
• Complex supplier and 
customer agreements
• External Auditors’ report 
and independence
• Going concern and viability
• Foreign Exchange 
management
• Internal control
• Distributable reserves
• Restructuring costs
• Segmental reporting
• Annual report and accounts
• Foreign Exchange management
• Impairment review
• Going concern and viability 
statement
• External Auditors’ report
• Group Internal Audit and Risk 
Management updates 
• US acquisition accounting
• External Auditors’ fees and 
independence
• Internal control
• Tobacco related litigation
• Retirement beneﬁts
• Revenue recognition
• Use of adjusted measures
• Restructuring costs and beneﬁts
• Distributable reserves Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 
Key Matters Considered  
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the following areas of significant judgement, complexity or estimation in connection  
with the financial statements, as set out below. 
 Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 
1 Goodwill and 
intangible asset 
impairment 
reviews  
 see Note 11 
of the financial 
statements  
for further 
information. 
 
Goodwill and intangible 
assets form a major part of 
the Group’s balance sheet 
and their current valuations 
must be supported by  
future prospects. 
We regularly received and considered detailed reports from management and 
challenged the methodology applied, the achievability of underlying business 
forecasts, and macro-economic assumptions used. For the cash generating units  
with the lowest headroom (Drive Growth Division and Other Premium Cigars), we 
examined different scenarios and sensitivities to assess whether management’s 
conclusions were fair and balanced. The Committee also considered detailed 
reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC. Resulting from the above, we 
concluded that management’s assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were  
not impaired was reasonable and, therefore, approved the disclosures in our  
financial statements. 
2 Accounting for 
our USA 
acquisition 
 see Note 29 
for further 
information. 
 
The fair values and asset 
lives used in accounting for 
the assets acquired have an 
effect on the future earnings 
of the business. 
We reviewed and challenged the detailed reports management had prepared to 
support the value of goodwill, intangible assets and other major asset categories, 
together with the asset lives ascribed to them. We also considered the 
appropriateness of the adjusting items in the reporting of the acquisition and, in 
particular, we concluded that the determination of acquisition and integration costs 
was appropriate, consistent with our adjusted measures guidelines and treatment  
of prior acquisitions. We also reviewed and discussed PwC’s detailed report on this 
area noting that it supported the proposed accounting treatments.  
3 Use of adjusted 
measures 
 see Note 1  
for further 
information. 
 
Non-GAAP or adjusted 
measures provide a useful 
assessment of business 
performance and reflect the 
way in which the business is 
managed. They are also 
used in determining annual 
and long-term incentives for 
remuneration, and are widely 
used by our investors. 
The Committee considered whether adjusted performance measures had been 
prepared in accordance with our policy on the use of adjusted measures set out in 
Note 1 to the financial statements. We also reviewed and challenged papers prepared 
by management which considered the appropriateness of our policy in the light of 
both the practice of other companies and externally published guidelines. In addition, 
this topic was discussed with PwC. We concluded that the Group’s policy continues 
to be appropriate and that it has been applied consistently. 
4 Treatment of 
restructuring 
costs  
 see Note 5  
for further 
information. 
 
Restructuring costs is one of 
the main items affecting our 
adjusted measures. There is 
a risk that restructuring costs 
are treated or presented 
inappropriately within the 
Group’s financial statements. 
We periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of 
restructuring costs. The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Group’s 
financial statements and half-year results were also reviewed and discussed with 
management and PwC. Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we 
concluded that determination of restructuring costs was consistently applied and  
that, notwithstanding the duration of some restructuring projects, costs were 
disclosed appropriately. 
5 Going concern 
and viability 
statement 
 see page 30 
for further 
information. 
 
The Directors are required  
to consider whether it is 
appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on a 
going concern basis and 
explain how they have 
assessed the prospects  
of the Company over a 
longer period. 
We examined the Group’s committed funding, its ability to generate cash and its 
ability to raise further funding. We challenged management’s cash projections and 
sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions. In addition, in assessing the Group’s 
longer-term viability we considered outputs of the annual corporate planning 
processes including the strategic review, a three year business plan and a rolling  
re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects. We also considered 
the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Group’s principal risks and 
mitigating actions. We concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on a going concern basis and that the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet  
its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2018. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES  
Audit Committee continued 
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
 
 Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 
6 Revenue 
recognition  
 see Note 1  
for further 
information. 
 
There is a risk that 
arrangements could be 
made to recognise sales  
that do not meet the  
Group’s criteria for  
revenue recognition. 
We reviewed management’s report on complex supplier and customer arrangements 
and noted the enhanced policy wording on revenue recognition. The Committee is 
satisfied that the Group’s criteria for revenue recognition are appropriate. Discussions 
were held with management and PwC and no breaches of the Group’s revenue 
recognition policy were brought to the Committee’s attention.  
7 Segmental 
reporting 
 see Note 3  
for further 
information. 
 
As a result of the USA 
acquisition, changes to 
management reporting  
lines and the increased 
importance of new business 
areas we reviewed 
segmental reporting. 
Having considered detailed papers from management, we agreed with its conclusion 
that it is appropriate to report the USA business as a separate segment. 
8 
Taxation 
 see Notes 8 
and 21 for 
further 
information. 
 
The Group is subject to 
taxation in a number of 
jurisdictions and significant 
judgement is required in 
relation to taxation provisions 
which could materially affect 
the Group’s reported results.  
We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the taxation 
affairs of the Group, including the structuring of the USA acquisition and the potential 
impact on the Group of various UK and foreign taxation reform proposals. Following 
consideration and discussion of these reports and a review of the report provided by 
PwC, we remain satisfied that the taxation provisions are appropriate.  
9 Tobacco-
related litigation  
 see further 
details on 
page 47. 
The Group is exposed  
to litigation arising from 
claimants alleging smoking 
related health effects. 
We considered reports from the Group’s external lawyers which confirmed that the 
Group continues to have meritorious defences to the actual and threatened legal 
proceedings and concluded that risks in respect of tobacco-related litigation are 
appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
Risk Management  
and Internal Control 
During the year, the Group continued to refine its risk management 
framework and processes to further formalise and embed the 
evaluation of risks across the business. This approach is designed  
to provide greater consistency in the identification and assessment  
of risks, at both a Group and local level.  
The Committee received updates during the year on the embedding 
of the risk management framework and on the risk management 
systems and processes operating within the Group. Additionally, the 
Committee has reviewed the process for identification, assessment, 
and reporting of the Company’s principal risks set out on pages 27 
to 29. The Committee has also considered and confirmed to the 
Board that this work is in accordance with the provisions in the  
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (FRC) associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. 
The Group is aware of the risks to its information technology systems, 
and employs subject matter experts, including a Chief Information 
Security Officer to manage these risks. Assurance over compliance 
with Group requirements is achieved through our Group Internal Audit 
plan which includes specific reviews to assess compliance with the 
Group’s relevant information technology standards and policies.  
In line with the reporting of all internal audit issues, any significant 
matters are reported to the Committee and their resolution monitored. 
The above processes and those described in the Risk Management 
section on pages 25 to 26 enable the Board, either directly or 
through the Audit Committee, to review regularly the effectiveness of 
the key procedures which have been established in order to provide 
appropriate internal controls. They also enable the Board to confirm 
that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s principal risks has operated throughout the year and up to 
the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
Group Internal Audit  
In January 2015, the Corporate Assurance function was restructured 
to establish Group Internal Audit (GIA) as a standalone department 
with a stronger, more independent identity and a remit to increase 
the level of challenge provided to management across the full range 
of the internal control framework. GIA continued to extend its 
coverage across the Business Transformation agenda, incorporate 
higher levels of strategic insight into all audit work and increase the 
level of engagement with senior stakeholders. GIA introduced its 
“Guest Auditor” programme which allows selected staff from across 
the business to participate in audits, both harnessing their specialist 
expertise and widening their experience of the broader business.  
The Committee reviews the annual internal audit plan, including its 
scope and extent, and reviews reports from GIA at each quarterly 
Committee meeting to monitor the function’s achievements against 
plan. The Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken 
by GIA and monitored management responses to the audit matters 
raised. Satisfaction surveys are completed by management following 
each audit and feedback on GIA performance during the year has 
been broadly positive. 
GIA conducted a self-assessment of effectiveness against the best 
practice standards of both the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)  
and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales 
(ICAEW). Whilst highlighting some areas for continual improvement 
the self-assessment reflected an improving level of GIA performance. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 
Independence of our  
External Auditors 
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, the 
Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor Independence 
Policy. This policy provides clear definitions of services that our External 
Auditors may and may not provide and can be found on our website. 
PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Company’s Auditors 
since its demerger in 1996. In line with our Auditor Independence 
Policy, the Group Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum 
of five years (seven years for subsidiary companies). John Maitland, 
our Audit Partner, has been in post since 2013.  
PwC may only provide non-audit services where those services do 
not conflict with its independence. The policy establishes a formal 
authorisation process, including the tendering for individual non-audit 
services expected to generate fees in excess of £250,000, and pre-
approval by the Committee for allowable non-audit work that they 
may perform. Guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former 
employees of PwC, and for the recruitment of our employees by 
PwC, are contained in the policy. During the year, the only non-audit 
fee in excess of £250,000 was in relation to work undertaken in 
connection with the USA cigarette brand and e-cigarette acquisition. 
During the year PwC undertook non-audit. This non-audit work was 
awarded to PwC due to its knowledge of the Group and it being 
deemed best placed to provide effectively the services required.  
This non-audit work included:  
– regulatory assurance work pursuant to the USA acquisition 
– tax advisory and tax compliance work  
– verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting and 
underlying processes 
– agreed upon processes in respect of the performance criteria of 
our employee share plans 
In the current year non-audit fees were 87 per cent (2014: 64 per 
cent) of total audit fees (see note 4 on page 87). This ratio is 
significantly impacted by the work undertaken in connection with the 
USA cigarette brands and e-cigarette acquisition. The Committee 
considers that the level of non-audit fees is appropriate in the light  
of the above activities, and is comparable with those disclosed by 
similar companies with international activities, and does not believe 
that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result 
of this non-audit work. 
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the Committee 
carried out two auditor independence reviews including consideration 
of the remuneration received by PwC for audit services, audit-related 
services and non-audit work. The Committee also considered reports 
by both management and PwC which did not raise any concerns in 
respect of PwC’s independence and confirmed that PwC maintains 
appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and 
objectivity. The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the 
relevant non-audit work by PwC was in compliance with the policy 
and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our business. No 
conflicts of interest were found to exist between such audit and non-
audit work. The Committee, therefore, confirmed that the Company 
and Group continues to receive an independent audit service. 
Audit Quality and  
Approach to Audit Tender 
We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high 
standard and effective external audit. To assist the Committee to 
assess the performance of our external auditors, during the year audit 
effectiveness questionnaires, covering the audit scope and planning, 
quality and delivery, challenge and communication and independence, 
were completed by members of both the Committee and Logista’s 
Audit Committee as well as by senior managers and finance executives 
from across the Group. Responses indicated that, as with previous 
reviews, there was a consistently high perception of auditor 
effectiveness, with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.  
Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its own 
ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwC’s 
reports to the Committee and its interaction with the audit partner, 
and taking into account the audit quality inspection report issued by 
the FRC in regard to PwC in May 2015, the Committee remains 
satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.  
Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions in the 
Code, the Committee annually considers if the audit should be put 
out to tender. The result of this year’s review was not to put the audit 
out to tender. The audit has not been put to tender since PwC were 
appointed as the Company’s Auditors in 1996. 
The new European Union Audit Directive has been finalised and its 
requirements have to be in place in the UK by 16 June 2016. 
Although the UK legislation has yet to be published we anticipate that 
it will set significant restrictions on the non-audit services our auditors 
will be able to supply to the Group from 1 October 2016. We also 
anticipate that these requirements will make audit firm rotation 
mandatory for the Group by 2023. We believe it is in the interest of 
both the Group and its stakeholders to ensure that the pool of major 
accountancy firms with the capacity to be appointed as auditor is 
maximised. As part of our tender planning we have, therefore, 
established a number of processes including the pre-approval of any 
future services by appropriate accountancy firms to maintain an 
adequate level of independence to allow them to tender. During the 
auditor independence reviews, detailed above, we also considered 
the remuneration for audit services, audit-related services and  
non-audit work undertaken by such accountancy firms. 
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Group’s 
choice of external auditors. 
Statement of Auditors’ 
Responsibilities 
PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial 
statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial statements  
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the Directors. In 
addition, it also reports on other elements of the Annual Report as 
required by legislation or regulation and reports its opinion to members. 
 PwC’s opinions are included on pages 68 and 116. 
Auditors and Disclosure  
of Information to Auditors 
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Annual 
Report confirms that: 
– so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information  
(that is, information needed by PwC in connection with preparing 
its report) of which PwC is unaware; and 
– each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as  
a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish PwC is aware of that information. 
The Board accepted at its October 2015 meeting the Committee’s 
recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM  
a resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company. 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Application of the UK  
Corporate Governance Code 
The latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the  
Code) was published by the FRC in September 2014, together  
with Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related 
Financial and Business Reporting. The 2014 amendments are 
applicable to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. 
We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full 
with the Code, including the 2014 amendments, throughout this 
financial year. The Company has not, however, tendered for audit 
services in the last ten years.  
We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the 
Code’s principles and complied with its detailed provisions. 
Specifically, the 2014 amendments include the requirement for 
additional statements by the Directors in respect of the longer-term 
viability of the Company and that they have made a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Company. These new requirements are 
addressed in the new Viability Statement that follows the disclosures  
of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 30. 
Board and its Committees 
Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms of 
reference issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant 
Committee. All Committee chairmen report on the proceedings of 
their Committee at the next meeting of the Board and, where 
appropriate, make recommendations to the Board. In addition, 
minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to Board members.  
To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues and to 
enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, 
our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly  
with the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors. 
Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and governance 
through their membership of the Board’s Committees. The 
membership and remit of each Committee are considered on  
pages 35, 37 and 49. The open atmosphere at our Committee 
meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience and 
independence to review critically and, where appropriate, challenge 
constructively strategies proposed by management. This ensures  
the further development of our business, effective use of our 
resources and maintenance of our high standards of conduct. 
Matters Reserved for the Board 
In order to retain control of key decisions the Board has adopted  
a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision 
including approval of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the Group’s business strategy, the annual capital 
expenditure plan, major capital projects, major changes to the 
Group’s management and control structure, material investments  
or disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and 
environmental policies, the appointment or removal of Directors  
and the Company Secretary and treasury policies.  
Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive  
Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and Chief 
Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities divided 
between running the Board and the business. They meet regularly 
between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving 
issues and to facilitate swift decision making. They are responsible  
to our shareholders for the successful delivery of our strategy. 
Board Composition and Roles 
Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links 
between the Board and our shareholders and management. 
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there have been 
no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.  
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management 
responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Group’s strategy to the Board and, 
once agreed, its implementation.  
Alison promotes the Group’s values, culture and high standards of conduct and 
behaviour which underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our sustainable 
sales growth. 
Executive Directors Oliver Tant 
Matthew Phillips 
Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing 
the operations and development of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility 
for managing their own areas of the business. 
Senior Independent 
Director 
Michael Herlihy Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is 
available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through 
the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate. No such concerns were 
raised during the year. 
Michael is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not 
appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved  
by the Chairman. 
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairman’s 
performance evaluation. 
Non-Executive  
Directors 
Ken Burnett 
David Haines 
Karen Witts  
Malcolm Wyman 
Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively management’s viewpoints, 
assumptions and performance. They bring to the Board a diverse range of business 
and financial expertise which complements and supplements the experiences of the 
Executive Directors.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
43 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Conflicts of Interest and Independence 
Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could 
have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may 
conflict, with the Company’s interests. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act), our Articles of Association allow  
the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise 
and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit. 
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and/or 
transactional conflicts, which are considered at the following Board 
meeting and, if appropriate, situational conflicts are authorised. We 
do not allow any Director to participate in such considerations or to 
vote regarding their own conflicts. 
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations  
all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have 
been entered in our Conflicts Register. No actual conflicts have  
been identified. The Board considers that these procedures  
operate effectively.  
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting  
in September 2015 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations 
entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that  
the independence of those Directors who have external board 
appointments has not been compromised. At this meeting, and 
taking into account the annual Board performance evaluation 
discussed below, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue  
to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, 
demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively and 
question management robustly and at all times have the best 
interests of our shareholders in mind. 
We confirm, therefore, that, with the exception of our Chairman  
who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment,  
our NEDs remained independent throughout the year as defined  
in the Code. 
External Appointments 
NEDs, including the Chairman, may serve on a number of other 
boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite 
commitment to discharge effectively their duties. The Succession  
and Nominations Committee reviews the extent of the NEDs’ other 
interests throughout the year. The Board is satisfied that each of  
the NEDs commits sufficient time to their duties in relation to the 
Company. Each of the NEDs has confirmed they have sufficient  
time to fulfil their obligations to the Company. 
The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of  
the OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies 
in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of 
the Company. Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, 
Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to 
accept one external non-executive board appointment and to retain 
any fees received from such appointment. 
Information and Training 
Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed on the 
legal and other duties they owe to the Company. Tailored induction 
programmes are arranged which include industry-specific training, 
visits to the Group’s businesses and meetings with senior 
management. They are also briefed on internal controls at both head 
office and business unit level and provided with information on 
relevant Company policies and governance related matters. 
Through its ‘NEDucation’ programme the Company is also 
committed to the continuing development of its NEDs in order that 
they may build on their expertise and develop their understanding of 
the business and the markets in which we operate. 
Through this programme ongoing training is available to NEDs to 
meet their individual needs. We also provide regular briefings to all 
Directors on matters such as legislation and regulation changes and 
corporate governance developments. Members of our Audit and 
Remuneration Committees also received briefings from PwC and 
New Bridge Street respectively. No specific training needs were 
identified in 2015. 
The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely 
information, including detailed financial information, to enable them  
to discharge their responsibilities. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.  
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other employees 
for all governance and regulatory matters.  
Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in 
appropriate circumstances, at the Company’s expense. 
Performance Evaluation  
To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, during the year it 
undertook a review of its performance, that of its Committees  
and of individual Directors. 
This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its 
Committees, the balance and range of Directors’ skills, diversity, 
succession and how the Board works as a unit. 
As part of the evaluation, the Chairman held meetings with the  
NEDs to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the 
Executive Directors. 
The Senior Independent Director also held separate meetings with 
the NEDs and the Board, both without the Chairman present, to 
consider the performance of the Chairman. 
The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was 
presented to the Board at its September 2015 meeting and used  
as the basis for one-to-one development discussions between the 
Chairman and each Director. 
The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue 
to operate effectively and neither significant areas for concern nor any 
requirement to provide extra training for our Directors were identified. 
Consequently, the Board and its Committees are satisfied they are 
operating and performing effectively. The evaluation confirmed that  
all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to 
contribute effectively to our Board and its Committees and that they 
remain appropriately constituted. 
Areas identified for further consideration were potentially increasing 
the number of NEDs on the Board, increasing the NEDs’ 
understanding of the Group’s priorities within its divisions and 
ensuring the Board has adequate time to consider appropriately  
all matters requiring its attention. 
We have addressed the issues identified in the 2014 Board 
evaluation including enhancing our ‘NEDucation’ programme  
as outlined above and on page 35. 
Insurance and Indemnities 
We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in 
respect of directors’ and officers’ liabilities. The Company has also 
entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the 
benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with  
the requirements of the Act. These indemnities were in force 
throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report. 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 44
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Dialogue with our Investors 
 
 
We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications 
which allow shareholders to understand how we see our prospects 
and the market environments in which we operate. 
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences, 
including institutional shareholders and sell side analysts as well  
as potential shareholders. During the year we made regular 
presentations to, and had meetings with, institutional investors in  
the UK, Europe, Canada and the USA to communicate progress 
towards achieving our sales growth strategy and to answer 
questions. Throughout the year our senior management team 
presented at industry conferences organised by investor bodies and 
investment banks for their institutional investor bases. Our Investor 
Relations team managed the interaction with these audiences and 
provided additional regular presentations during the year.  
The primary means of communication with the majority of our 
shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year 
Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 
Statements. These were supported by a combination of 
presentations, conference calls, one-to-one meetings and  
investor meetings. 
NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available 
throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested  
and are kept up-to-date with investor opinion including via our  
annual survey of investor opinions. 
We offer our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes, 
including abstentions, either electronically or in paper format and 
ensure our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM  
are made available at least 20 working days prior to the meeting to 
allow shareholders time to consider them fully before submitting their 
proxy votes.
At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations  
on our performance and current business activities and all Directors 
make themselves available to meet shareholders after the conclusion 
of the formal business of the AGM. 
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings 
separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all 
resolutions are put to a poll. At the AGM the number of proxy votes 
for, against and abstentions for each resolution are provided. Votes 
received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final 
results published through a Regulatory Information Service, on  
our website and via OTCQX. 
At our 2015 AGM and the General Meeting to consider the 
acquisition of certain USA cigarette and e-cigarette brands and  
other assets we received votes representing approximately 79 per 
cent of our issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury  
at the date of the meetings). 
Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 3 February 2016, full 
details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available  
on our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report. 
 
UK – 56%
USA – 31%
Rest of Europe – 11%
Rest of the World – 2%
Geographical Analysis of Shareholders
(as at 30 September 2015)
Institutional – 91%
Non-institutional – 4%
Retail – 2%
Employees – 1%
Miscellaneous – 2%
Shareholder Composition
(as at 30 September 2015) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
45 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Other Information – Introduction 
One of the Board’s primary responsibilities is to ensure the Company 
is run in the best long-term interests of its shareholders and wider 
stakeholders. We believe this can only be achieved if the activities  
of the Group are supported by appropriate governance processes 
applied across the Group. 
These processes are illustrated below and in the individual 
Committee reports. 
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 (the Act) the 
following items have been included in other sections of this  
Annual Report: 
– a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included  
in the Strategic Report. The information in our Governance Report 
is included in this Directors’ Report by reference;  
– future developments in the business are included in the  
Chief Executive’s Review; 
– information relating to our people is included in the Rewarding 
Workplace section; 
– our principal risks as detailed on page 27 to 30;  
– the Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed  
on pages 32 and 33. 
Share Capital 
Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the Financial 
Statements. All shares other than those held in treasury are freely 
transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights. 
At our AGM on 28 January 2015 shareholder authority for the 
buyback of up to 95,709,000 shares was obtained. 
As at 30 September 2015 we held 78,909,137 shares in treasury, 
which represented 7.62 per cent of issued share capital and had  
an aggregate nominal value of £7,890,914. 
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 
shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they 
represent a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds.  
At 30 September 2015 we had been notified of the following interests 
in 3 per cent or more of our shares. 
 
Number of 
ordinary shares  
(millions) 
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital 
BlackRock Inc 53  5.59
2
Invesco Limited 47 4.94
1
Morgan Stanley Investment  
Management Limited  42  4.44
1
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30
2
Capital Group Companies Inc 39 4.03
2
At 30 November 2015 we had been notified of the following interests 
in 3 per cent or more of our shares. 
 
Number of 
ordinary shares  
(millions) 
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital 
BlackRock Inc 53  5.59
2
Capital Group Companies Inc 48 5.01
2
Invesco Limited 47 4.94
1
Morgan Stanley Investment  
Management Limited  42  4.44
1
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30
2
1 Direct holding. 
2 Indirect holding. 
We have not received notification that any other person holds  
3 per cent or more of our shares. 
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected 
persons are shown on page 60. Other than as disclosed on page 53, 
there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors  
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment due to a takeover. 
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is  
given in note 6 to the Financial Statements and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Financial Results and Dividends 
We include a review of our operational and financial performance, 
current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: 
Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections. 
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the 
financial year was £1,691 million, as shown in our consolidated 
income statement. Note 3 to the Financial Statements gives  
an analysis of revenue and operating profit. 
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet and the related notes to the Financial Statements. 
We moved to quarterly dividend payments with effect from financial 
year 2015. The first and second dividends for financial year 2015 
were paid on 30 June 2015 and 30 September 2015 respectively. 
The third dividend will be paid on 31 December 2015 and, subject  
to AGM approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2016  
to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of 
business on 5 February 2016. The associated ex-dividend date  
will be 4 February 2016. 
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: 
£ million  2015 2014
Ordinary Shares 
Interim paid – June 2015,  
21.4p per share 204 –
Interim paid – August 2014,  
38.8p per share – 370 
Interim paid – September 2015,  
21.4p per share 204 –
Proposed interim – December 2015, 
49.1p per share  468 –
Final paid – February 2015,  
89.3p per share  – 851
Proposed final – March 2016,  
49.1p per share  468 –
Total ordinary dividends,  
141.0p per share (2014: 128.1p)  1,344 1,221
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 46
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 
46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Relations With Other 
Stakeholders 
Charitable and Political Donations  
As part of our responsible approach and commitment to reinvesting in 
society, we continued to support the communities in which we operate 
by allocating £2.55 million (2014: £3.28 million) to partnership and 
community investments, in addition to in-kind activities including 
management time, volunteering, gifts in-kind and localised activities. 
This amount was less than in 2014 as some partner payment 
commitments have been scheduled for later in the calendar year,  
after the end of our financial year.  
Although difficult to quantify in monetary terms, our in-kind activities 
have increased in 2015 including the launch of our first global 
volunteering initiative, which achieved 50,000 hours of employees’ 
time in support of charitable activities. 
Through the UK Charities Aid Foundation we apportioned  
£1.7 million to registered charities, supporting the Eliminating Child 
Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation, our Altadis Foundation  
and a small number of UK charities.  
We also apportioned £0.7 million to our leaf sustainability 
partnerships which seek to help rural tobacco growing communities, 
predominantly in sub-Saharan Africa.  
More detailed information on our approach to supporting community 
livelihoods can be found on our website www.imperial-
tobacco.com/cr.  
All charitable donations and partnership investments are subject to 
the requirements of our Code of Conduct.  
No political donations were made to EU political parties, 
organisations or candidates (2014: Nil). This approach is aligned  
with our Group Policy and Code of Conduct. 
Pension Fund 
Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not 
controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of 
which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one 
director nominated by employee members and two nominated by 
current and deferred pensioners. This trustee company looks after 
the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those 
of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.  
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the 
fund’s rules and for no other purpose.  
 Further details are contained in our Remuneration Report. 
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association do not contain any 
entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added  
to or completely new articles may be adopted by special resolution 
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate on 
Change of Control  
The agreements summarised below are those which we consider to 
be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions 
giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are 
subject to a change of control following a takeover bid. 
The Group has ten credit facility agreements that provide that, unless 
the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of associated 
persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the 
votes at a general meeting of the Company, the respective borrowers 
must repay any outstanding utilisation made by them under the 
respective facility agreement and the total commitments under that 
facility agreement will be cancelled. 
 
The ten credit agreements are: 
– a credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 under which 
certain banks and financial institutions make available to Imperial 
Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance 
Limited: (a) committed acquisition credit facilities across three 
tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million and $1,500 million,  
for a maximum period of up to three years, four years and six  
years respectively; (b) committed credit facilities of €1,000 million 
for a period of up to three years; and (c) committed credit facilities 
in two tranches of €2,835 million and £500 million for a period  
of five years. The $4,100 million three-year tranche of the 
committed acquisition credit facilities was subsequently repaid  
in full in July 2015, while the $1,500 million five-year tranche has 
been partially repaid such that this tranche has now reduced to 
$450 million as at 30 September 2015; and  
– eight deeds of counter-indemnity each dated 3 June 2014 made 
on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance 
companies and financial institutions each make available to 
Imperial Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued  
on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount  
of £400 million, until 3 December 2019; and 
– a credit facility agreement dated 9 June 2015 in which Bank  
of America Merrill Lynch Limited makes available to Imperial 
Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance 
Limited a committed credit facility of $300 million for a maximum 
period of up to five years.  
In the event that any of the listed credit facility agreements are 
subject to any such repayment and cancellation, we would expect 
the Group to replace these agreements with similar arrangements in 
order to satisfy its existing funding commitments, ongoing working 
capital and similar requirements, as well as its long-term and 
strategic plans.  
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC (the Issuer) has issued bonds under  
a Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) Debt Issuance Programme  
(as noted below). The Company acted as guarantor.  
The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control 
provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any 
earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require 
the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s option, purchase that note  
at its nominal value if: (a) any person, or persons acting in concert  
or on behalf of any such person(s) becomes interested in: (i) more 
than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of  
the Company; or (ii) such number of shares in the capital of the 
Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights 
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company; and (b)  
as a result of the change of control, there is either: (i) a reduction to  
a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment grade 
rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced 
by an investment grade rating during the change of control period 
specified in the final terms; or (ii) to the extent that the notes are not 
rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain  
an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of 
control period as a result of the change of control. 
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: 
– 15 September 2008 £600,000,000 8.125 per cent  
guaranteed notes due 2024; 
– 17 February 2009 £1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed  
notes due 2022; 
– 17 February 2009 €1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2016; 
– 24 June 2009 £500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2019; 
– 5 July 2011 €850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2018;  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 
– 26 September 2011 £500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2026; 
– 1 December 2011 €750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2019; 
– 28 February 2014 €1,000,000,000 2.25 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2021; 
– 28 February 2014 €650,000,000 3.375 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2026; and 
– 28 February 2014 £500,000,000 4.875 per cent guaranteed notes 
due 2032. 
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the  
United States of America under the provisions of Section 144a  
and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act (1933).  
The Company acted as guarantor.  
The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control 
provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any 
earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require 
the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuer’s option, purchase that note  
at 101 per cent of its nominal value if: (a) (i) any person (as such term 
is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange 
Act)) becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50 per cent of the 
Company’s voting stock; or (ii) there is a transfer (other than by 
merger, consolidation or amalgamation) of all or substantially all of  
the Company’s assets and those of its subsidiaries to any person  
(as such term is used in the Exchange Act); or (iii) a majority of the 
members of the Company’s Board of Directors is not continuing in 
such capacity; and (b) as a result of the change of control, there is 
either: (i) a reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal 
of the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, 
reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the 
change of control period specified in the final terms; or (ii) to the 
extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of 
control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating  
of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the 
change of control. 
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: 
– 11 February 2013 $1,250,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2018;  
– 11 February 2013 $1,000,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed 
notes due 2023; 
– 21 July 2015 $500,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2018; 
– 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 2.95 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2020; 
– 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 3.75 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2022; and 
– 21 July 2015 $1,500,000,000 4.25 per cent guaranteed notes  
due 2025. 
Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation  
Ireland 
In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has 
fallen to only five. In four of these cases, the claimants are deceased 
and their solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact 
their families. The fifth case has been inactive since 2003 and can be 
assumed to have been abandoned. If any of these claims reactivate, 
it is very likely that they would be struck out on grounds of delay. 
Italy 
We are currently facing two claims in Italy. The first is against Logista, 
which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and  
the admission of evidence. This challenge was heard in 2006 but 
judgement is still awaited. 
The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina by  
two individuals claiming €800,000 in total. We have denied liability.  
Two procedural hearings took place on 17 September 2014 and  
24 June 2015 respectively. The next hearing has been scheduled  
for 13 November 2015. 
Morocco 
Our Moroccan subsidiary, Société Marocaine des Tabacs (SMT),  
is facing a claim in the Casablanca Court brought by the heirs of  
a deceased individual. The total amount of compensation sought  
is not yet known. The first substantive hearing is scheduled for  
3 November 2015. 
To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any 
claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Tobacco  
or any of its subsidiaries. Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its 
lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set 
out above. We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation 
against us. 
Other Information –  
Listing Rules 
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4R, the information required to be 
disclosed by LR 9.8.4R can be found on the pages set out below: 
Section  Information Page 
(1) Interest capitalised Not applicable 
(2) Publication of unaudited  
financial information 
Not applicable 
(4) Details of long-term  
incentive schemes 
51, 57, 58,  
63 and 64 
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 
(7) Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 
(8) Non pre-emptive issue by a major  
subsidiary undertakings 
Not applicable 
(9) Listed subsidiary Not applicable 
(10) Contracts of significance 46 and 47 
(11) Provision of services by a controlling 
shareholder 
Not applicable 
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends See below 
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends See below 
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable 
In respect of LR 9.8.4R(12) and (13) the trustee of the Imperial 
Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust agrees to 
waive dividends payable on the Group’s shares it holds for satisfying 
awards under various Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share plans. In 
accordance with Section 726 of the Act no dividends can be paid to 
the Company in respect of the shares it holds in treasury. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued 
48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have 
elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements  
in accordance with United Kingdom GAAP (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and Applicable Law). Under company law,  
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs  
of the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of  
the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements,  
the Directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent Company financial statements respectively; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis  
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the  
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 32 and 33, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and  
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of  
the Group; and 
– the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report were approved  
and signed by order of the Board. 
 
 
 
 
 
John Downing 
3 November 2015 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
Remuneration Committee 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 
 
 
“Our remuneration policy supports 
our strategy and incentivises 
management to maximise 
opportunities for long-term 
sustainable growth.” 
Members  
David Haines Chairman 
Ken Burnett  
Michael Herlihy 
Karen Witts 
Malcolm Wyman  
Trevor Williams  
Committee Secretary 
Other regular attendees  
Board Chairman
1
 
Chief Executive
1
 
Company Secretary  
Group Human Resources Director
1
  
Group Reward Director 
New Bridge Street, the 
Committee’s principal advisor
2
 
1 Specifically excluded when their own remuneration or conditions of service  
are under discussion. 
2 Appointed by the Committee. 
Focus in 2015 
– implementing the revised remuneration policy following 
shareholder approval comprising: 
– consolidating all long term awards into a single LTIP. The LTIP  
is a five year plan, having a three year performance period and  
an additional two year holding period for vested awards; 
– implementing mandatory deferral of bonus to require 50 per cent 
of bonus paid to be deferred into shares and released after  
three years; and 
– strengthening claw back and malus provisions 
– review of Matthew Phillips’ remuneration package in light of his 
significantly increased responsibilities 
– consideration and review of performance conditions following  
the acquisition of assets in the USA 
Focus for 2016  
– no changes to the remuneration policy are proposed for 2016 
– following the acquisition of assets in the USA, ongoing monitoring 
of performance conditions to ensure incentive pay-out levels 
appropriately reflect the intentions of the Committee and the 
remuneration policy at the time of grant 
– review of reward strategy and positioning in light of the changed 
profile of the business following the USA acquisition 
Remuneration Summary 
The Committee’s aim 
Our remuneration policy incentivises management to deliver our 
strategy, building on its track record of delivering significant returns to 
our shareholders. 
Our remuneration packages comprise 
Fixed elements: Variable elements: 
– salary – annual bonus 
– pension – long term incentive plan
– benefits 
 See a summary of our remuneration policy on page 51. 
 
Balance of elements  
Packages are weighted towards performance related variable 
elements with targets aligned to the key performance indicators we 
use to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy.  
The potential reward opportunity for Alison Cooper, our Chief 
Executive in the current financial year, is: 
 
 
 See the full scenario analysis on page 53. 
 
Summary of Total Remuneration for each Executive Director  
£’000 Salary 
Taxable 
benefits
Annual 
bonus 
Share 
plans 
vesting 
Share- 
save 
vesting 
Pension 
benefits Total 
Executive 
Directors    
Alison 
Cooper 965 16 1,544 571 6 480 3,582
Oliver  
Tant  630 16 1,008 – – 163 1,817
Matthew 
Phillips 478 23 705 169 4 296 1,675
 2,073 55 3,257 740 10 939 7,074
 Read the full details in our Remuneration Report on page 56. 
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
Actual FY15 Max Target Minimum
Salary, pension and beneﬁts Annual bonus LTIP
100%
29%
xx%
£1,516
£3,429
£7,126
£3,582
16%
41%
43%
26%
30%
44% 21%
50%
David Haines Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Dear Shareholder  
To maintain alignment with the Group’s long-term strategic priorities 
we have, over recent years, made a number of changes to our 
remuneration policy, including further increasing the focus of our 
executives’ pay towards the long-term. We aim to ensure that 
executive remuneration is not excessive but is fair and competitive, 
and enables the Group to attract and retain the talented individuals 
needed to drive our large and complex business forward. 
The changes we proposed to our remuneration policy last year, 
which included the consolidation of two long-term incentive 
arrangements, were approved by shareholders at our AGM on  
28 January 2015 and I was pleased with the 94 per cent vote  
in support.  
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) places greater 
emphasis on ensuring that remuneration policies are designed to 
promote each company’s long-term success. It also emphasises  
that arrangements should be in place to enable withholding or 
recovery of variable pay, when appropriate, and holding periods  
for deferred remuneration.  
I am confident that the strong links between our performance targets 
and key performance indicators used to measure the progress in 
delivering our strategy, the deferral and holding periods we have 
introduced and the robust malus and clawback provisions within the 
annual bonus and LTIP fully meet the Code’s enhanced provisions.  
We are not proposing any changes to the policy for the year ahead 
and have, therefore, set out a short summary of our policy on  
page 51 with the full policy contained within our 2014 Annual  
Report and Accounts available on our website, http://ar14.imperial-
tobacco.com 
Whilst the external environment remained challenging, we continued to 
deliver against strategy; of particular note we drove our Growth Brands 
to outperform the market by 14.4 per cent enabling us to stabilise 
market share and exceed earnings expectations. Strong financial 
discipline also enabled us to increase cash conversion to 97 per cent. 
Delivery against strategy resulted in an annual bonus pay-out for 
Executive Directors of 80 per cent. This continued progress has yet  
to be reflected in the outcomes of the long-term plans; there will be 
only partial vesting of LTIP awards made in December 2012 and  
no vesting of SMS awards made in February 2013.  
During the year we delivered a major acquisition of USA cigarette and 
e-cigarette brands from Reynolds American. This increases our share 
of the USA market to approximately 10 per cent and will be earnings 
accretive and delivers return on invested capital of approximately  
10 per cent in the first year. In light of this change to the profile of the 
business, the Committee will commence a review of remuneration 
strategy and positioning in 2016, ensuring remuneration continues  
to support the creation of a stronger, more agile business and 
enhances our ability to generate sustainable shareholder returns. 
Following the acquisition we realigned management responsibilities 
including appointing Matthew Phillips to the new role of Chief 
Development Officer. In this role he assumed responsibility for  
Group strategy, corporate development and our standalone  
Fontem Ventures business (including blu), whilst retaining his  
existing responsibilities for corporate, legal and regulatory affairs. 
Subsequent to informing our major shareholders, the Committee 
reviewed his remuneration (detailed on page 59). 
In light of the positive impact of the acquisition on Group net revenue, 
the Committee will use its powers of discretion to increase net 
revenue targets for existing LTIPs as necessary to ensure the 
appropriateness of future vesting levels.  
The Committee continues to review incentive measures annually. For 
financial year to 30 September 2016 it does not intend to amend the 
measures, as these continue to be aligned with our strategy and the 
interests of our investors, but targets for 2016 have been set based 
on the higher performance expectations of the enlarged business. 
 
  
David Haines 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Governance 
The role of the Remuneration Committee 
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive 
remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.  
The Committee’s principal function is to support the Group’s strategy 
by ensuring its delivery is incentivised by the remuneration policy. It 
also determines the specific remuneration package, including service 
contracts and pension arrangements, for each Executive Director 
and our most senior executives. 
The Committee held three meetings during the financial year.  
The Committee’s responsibilities include: 
– ensuring remuneration arrangements support our strategy, align 
with our values and drive performance; 
– maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to  
the business environment of the countries in which we operate, 
thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high calibre individuals; 
– aligning senior executives’ remuneration with the interests of long-
term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is fair but  
not excessive;  
– assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar  
as it relates to the Committee;  
– making recommendations to the Board in respect of our 
Chairman’s fees; 
– setting targets for performance related elements;  
– oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration 
and of our employee share plans; and 
– ensuring appropriate independent advisors are appointed to 
provide advice and guidance to the Committee. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference provide further details of  
the role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on 
our website. 
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive 
Directors which we consider fundamental in ensuring Executive 
Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration is set by people who 
are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than 
as shareholders, in the matters discussed. 
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee 
meeting allows the members to meet without any Executive Director 
or other manager being present. 
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). It also meets the requirements  
of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. In this Report we describe how the principles  
of good governance relating to directors’ remuneration, as set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the Code), are applied in 
practice. The Committee confirms that throughout the financial year 
the Company has complied with these governance rules and best 
practice provisions. 
The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on  
the audited information within this Report and to state whether,  
in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The Auditors’ opinion is set out on page  
68 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 
Summary Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 
There are no changes proposed to the policy approved by shareholders at our 2015 AGM, a summary of which is set out below. It does  
not replace or override the full approved policy, which is available on the Group’s website http://ar14.imperial-tobacco.com/pdfs/imperial-
tobacco-annual-report-2014-governance.pdf. 
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Salary  Attract and retain  
high performing 
individuals, reflecting 
market value of role 
and the Executive 
Director’s skills, 
experience and 
performance. 
Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee 
taking into account each Executive Director’s performance together 
with changes in role and responsibility, general increases for the  
UK wider management population and with reference to external 
market comparators. 
Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October. 
 
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase. 
 
Benefits Competitive benefits 
taking into account 
market value of role 
and benefits offered 
to the wider UK 
management 
population. 
Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, life 
insurance and permanent health insurance which are provided directly 
or through the Company pension scheme. 
Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan. 
Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if/when applicable. 
The level of benefit 
provision is fixed. 
Annual 
Bonus 
Plan 
Incentivise delivery  
of Group strategic 
objectives  
and enhance 
performance. 
At least 60% of the annual bonus is linked to key financial metrics  
and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.  
Performance below the threshold results in zero payment. Payments 
rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of 
performance between the threshold and maximum targets. 
Half of any annual bonus is paid in deferred shares which must be  
held for a minimum of three years. The other half is paid in cash. 
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw back provisions are 
in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus. 
200% of base salary  
or such lower sum  
as determined by  
the Committee. 
Long-Term 
Incentive 
Plan 
Incentivise long-term 
Group financial 
performance in line 
with the Group’s 
strategy and long-
term shareholder 
returns. Align 
Executive Directors’ 
interests with those  
of long-term 
shareholders. 
Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at 
the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are 
based 20% on relative total shareholder return (TSR) vs a peer group 
and 80% on financial measures. 
In respect of each performance element, performance below the 
threshold target results in zero vesting. Vesting of each performance 
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance 
between the threshold and maximum targets. 
There is no opportunity to re-test. 
Claw back and malus provisions are in place. 
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting. 
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two year  
holding requirement. 
Chief Executive Officer: 
350% of base salary. 
Other Executive 
Directors: 250% of base 
salary or such lower 
sum as determined by 
the Committee. 
Plus shares equivalent 
to the value of the 
dividend roll-up. 
Pensions Attract and retain  
high performing 
Executive Directors. 
Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other 
employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK (the 
Fund). Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 
2010 are members of the defined benefit section whereas Executive 
Directors joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership 
of the defined contribution section. Members of the defined benefit 
section of the fund accrue pension at a rate between 1/47
th
 and 1/60
th
 
of pensionable salary. Further detail is provided on page 58. 
Executives have the option to receive a cash supplement in lieu of 
membership of the Fund, or in lieu of accrual on pensionable salary 
above the Fund’s earnings cap, or in lieu of future service accrual.  
 
Current policy is for a 
defined contribution and 
cash supplement limit of 
26% of salary. 
Existing members of the 
defined benefit section 
have a cash in lieu of 
pension accrual limit  
of 35% of salary. 
Note:  Legacy awards – In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors remain 
eligible to receive payments, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award (including the Share Matching Scheme) made prior  
to its implementation.  
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Committee discretions relating to variable pay schemes 
The Committee operates each of the Company’s incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and, where 
relevant, in accordance with the Listing Rules. The Committee has discretion, consistent with market practice, in respect of, but are not  
limited to: 
– participants; 
– the timing of grant of an award and/or payment; 
– the size of an award (subject to the maxima set out in our policy); 
– the performance measures and targets; 
– the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration 
of whether and, if so, how adjustments should be made (subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the 
revised target being no less challenging than the original target); 
– discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances (eg rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events and special dividends); and 
– determination of a good/bad leaver for plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen. 
In relation to the Annual Bonus, LTIP and legacy SMS awards, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which 
cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original 
purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended. Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting  
policy over the performance period. Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration and, if appropriate, be subject to consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. The use of discretion in relation  
to the Company’s Sharesave plan is as permitted under HMRC rules. 
Performance Measure Selection 
The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Group’s key strategic initiatives for the year and  
reflect both financial and non-financial objectives. 
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually and considers the combination of measures in the LTIP, ie adjusted EPS, net 
revenue and relative TSR, remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group. TSR aligns with the Company’s 
focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for out performance of sector peers. EPS provides strong line-of-sight for 
Executive Directors and supports the Group’s long-term strategy. Net revenue supports the Company’s focus on organic growth. 
Performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and the  
economic environment.  
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees 
The Company’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level  
of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies. 
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors. Other employees 
are eligible to participate in performance led annual bonus plans. Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational 
level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate. 
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP (c.60 individuals) and the majority of members of the Corporate Management Group  
are eligible to participate in the SMS (c.1,100 individuals). 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 
Total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below. 
 
The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded. Assumptions made for each scenario are  
as follows: 
– Minimum: fixed remuneration only (ie salary, benefits and pension). 
– Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards. Note that Imperial 
Tobacco does not have a stated ‘target’ for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs. 
– Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards. 
Executive Directors’ Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments  
The Company’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service agreements normally continue until their agreed retirement date or such other  
date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one year’s notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor any other 
entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances. In addition, in some limited cases 
career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period. Under the terms of our Articles of Association,  
all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
Executive Directors’ service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and  
5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits but these are at the Committee’s sole discretion. The Company is unequivocally against 
rewards for failure. The circumstances of any termination (including performance) and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate losses 
would be taken into account in every case; our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent 
that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would be paid monthly in 
arrears.  
For Executive Directors leaving employment for specified reasons (including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the 
business or company in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control) annual bonus awards will be 
based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees. The Committee has discretion to adjust 
the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances. 
Under the rules of both the LTIP and the legacy SMS, outstanding awards vest if an Executive Director leaves for the specified reasons as 
detailed above. In these circumstances awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been held and  
the achievement of the performance criteria. Awards will vest either on termination of employment or, for awards granted under the policy 
approved by shareholders in 2014 or later, at the normal vesting date, as the Committee determines in its absolute discretion. If the 
termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award  
to vest, awards lapse entirely.  
Executive Directors service agreements 
Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control 
Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months’ notice No provisions 
 
  
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
Max Target Minimum
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
Max Target Minimum
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
Max Target Minimum
Salary, pension and beneﬁts Annual bonus LTIP
100%
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
21%
29%
100%
£834
44%
34%
£1,888
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
22%
43%
35%
£3,754
100%
Chief Development Ofﬁcer
Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2015/16 ﬁnancial year (£’000)
£1,516
26%
£3,429
30%
44%
50%
£7,126
22%
£860
31%
19%
£1,739
£3,295
41%
33%
26% 50% Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Recruitment of Executive Directors 
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in 
force at the time of appointment. The Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements when it considers these to be in  
the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders. Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost  
when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism (ie cash, shares, options), time horizons and performance 
requirements attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment. The Committee 
may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention 
of the relevant individual. The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.  
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay-out according  
to its terms on grant. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they 
are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following their appointment.  
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate  
and within the limits set by the Committee.  
Shareholding Guidelines 
Whilst placing significant weight on our annual performance, our policy aligns the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders with 
those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long-term. To support this alignment, we have share 
ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of  
their personal wealth in our shares. 
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Group’s shares to a minimum value 
broadly equivalent to three times their respective base salary. Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to 
between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade. Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account 
when determining eligibility for LTIP awards. 
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares 
which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.  
Consultation with Employees 
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the remuneration policy, the Committee does consider the general  
basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the 
remuneration policy for Executive Directors. 
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees  
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is designed having regard to the remuneration policy for employees across the Group. 
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees,  
which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility. The key difference is the increased emphasis on  
long-term performance related pay for Executive Directors. 
Consideration of Shareholder Views 
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM. This 
feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is considered as part of the Company’s 
annual remuneration policy review.  
The Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we 
understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues. When any material changes are made to the remuneration policy  
the Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these. 
Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments 
We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.  
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 
company. At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive 
directorship. 
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the £55,000 fee received from this position in  
the financial year. 
Summary of Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Element 
Purpose and Link  
to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity 
Fees Attract and retain high 
performing 
individuals. Portion of 
fees applied to 
purchase of shares to 
align interests with 
those of shareholders. 
Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board  
(after recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman). 
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October. 
The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee considers pay  
data at comparator companies of similar scale. 
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit  
and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees. 
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate  
in the Group’s employee share plans. 
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase. 
Aggregate annual fees 
limited to £2.0 million by 
Articles of Association. 
Benefits Travel to the 
Company’s registered 
office. 
Travel to the Company’s registered office is recognised as a  
taxable benefit. 
Grossed-up costs  
of travel.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time 
commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business 
hours and both prior to and at the AGM. 
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by  
the Board on 27 January 2015. There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on 
termination. Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
Annual report on remuneration – How the Committee  
implemented the Remuneration Policy for Financial  
Year Ended 30 September 2015 
Linking Remuneration with Strategy. 
We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows. Ensuring that our sales 
growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term 
returns to shareholders. 
Alignment with our Strategy Sustainable growth is at the heart of our strategy. This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of growth 
within our variable remuneration – both the annual bonus and LTIP. Stretching performance targets incentivise 
the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value. 
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus. Profitability, mainly in the 
form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP whilst 
cash conversion forms a measure for the annual bonus. 
Alignment with our Shareholders To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the 
Company’s shares through both direct shareholdings (supported by shareholding requirements for senior 
executives) and through our share plans, with the value of the Corporate Management Group’s overall 
remuneration being heavily influenced by the performance of our share price. 
Attracting and Retaining the  
Right People 
Our Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels who  
are engaged and incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, 
without encouraging them to take undue risks. 
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the 
other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure. 
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance based elements. 
Implementing Executive Policy and Practice  
In implementing the Company’s Remuneration Policy (as summarised on page 51 and detailed on pages 48 to 53 of the Company’s Annual 
Report and Accounts 2014 available on our website), the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in 
setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement. In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay data at 
comparator companies of similar scale and operating in a similar sector. Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine  
what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a “playing field” within which an individual’s rewards need to be 
positioned. In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individual’s 
role, their ability, experience and performance. 
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual 
opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees 
participating in one or more plans. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for each Director (Audited)  
£’000 
2015 
Salary 
and fees 
2014 
Salary 
and fees
2015  
Taxable  
benefits
1
 
2014 
Taxable 
benefits 
2015 
 Annual 
 bonus
2
2014 
Annual 
bonus
2015 
 Share 
 plans 
 vesting
3 
2014 
 Share 
plans 
vesting
3
2015 
 Share-  
save 
vesting
4 
2014 
Share- 
save 
vesting 
2015  
Pension  
benefits
5
 
2014 
Pension 
benefits  
2015 
Total 
2014 
Total 
Executive Directors       
Alison Cooper 965 920 16  16 1,544 1,270 571 165 6 – 480  293 3,582 2,664
Oliver Tant 630 575 16  16 1,008 595 – – – – 163  150 1,817 1,336
Matthew Phillips 478 435 23  22 705 375 169 28 4 – 296  134 1,675 994
 2,073 1,930 55  54 3,257 2,240 740 193 10 – 939  577 7,074 4,994
Non-Executive 
Directors       
       
Mark Williamson
6
 450 338 4  3 – – – – – – –  – 454 341
Ken Burnett 75 73 29  28 – – – – – – –  – 104 101
David Haines
7
 100 86 5  11 – – – – – – –  – 105 97
Michael Herlihy
7
 100 96 4  3 – – – – – – –  – 104 99
Karen Witts
8
 75 47 3  1 – – – – – – –  – 78 48
Malcolm Wyman
7
 100 98 9  5 – – – – – – –  – 109 103
 900 738 54  51 – – – – – – –  – 954 789
1 Taxable benefits principally include an allowance (£15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant) in lieu of or the provision of a company car (£21,376 in respect  
of Matthew Phillips), fuel and health insurance. Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at  
the Company’s registered office. 
2 Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2015. In line with policy half of the net value is deferred in shares for three years;  
no further performance conditions apply. 
3 Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of £32.647 being  
the three months average to 30 September 2015. The 2014 estimated figure has been restated to reflect actual share price at the date of vesting. 
4 Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise. These sharesave options were the  
only options exercised in the year; 440 shares in respect of Alison Cooper and 264 shares in respect of Matthew Phillips. 
5 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors’ pension section on page 58. 
6 Mark Williamson succeeded Iain Napier as Chairman on 5 February 2014. 
7 Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of £25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of £25,000 in respect 
of the Remuneration Committee and £25,000 in respect of the Audit Committee. 
8 Karen Witts was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014. 
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed up for tax where expenses 
represent a taxable benefit. No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances. No Directors waived their fees. No payments 
were made to former directors nor were any payment made for loss of office during the year. 
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration (Audited) 
This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.  
In particular, it details the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and for each share plan, namely 
the SMS and LTIP. 
Determination of 2015 Annual Bonus 
Management delivered a good performance in the year to 30 September 2015, strengthening our brands and market footprint and increasing 
cash conversion. As a result, we are a stronger business and continued to deliver a 10 per cent increase in annual dividend. 
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2015, is 80 per cent  
of maximum opportunity (2014: 69 per cent). The Committee believes this to be an appropriate reflection of the performance and progress 
made through the year. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 
Performance against individual measures is set out below.  
Performance target Assessment 
Maximum 
percentage 
of bonus
Actual 
percentage 
of bonus
Adjusted EPS growth  
(constant currency) 
KPI
 
Performance is measured based on EPS growth at constant currency. Increases 
in top line revenues together with a strong focus on cost and cash opportunities 
provided growth in EPS of 8.2 per cent against a maximum target of 6.8 per cent. 
35 35
Cash conversion
 KPI
 Performance is measured as cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit. 
Instilling a more cost conscious culture, efficiently managing our cost base and 
our commitment to capital discipline enabled Cash Conversion of 97 per cent 
against a maximum target of 92 per cent. 
25 25
Volume growth in  
Growth Brands
 KPI
 
Performance is measured based on volume growth of our growth brands relative 
to the market. 
Consistent focus on developing our Growth Brands, through investments, 
migrations and choices in market has enabled us to further optimise our brand 
portfolio and build the strength of our key brand assets. Growth Brand volumes 
increased by 14.4 per cent relative to the market against a maximum target of  
18 per cent relative growth. 
15 11
Non-financial Non-financial measures consisted of an aggregate market share target. 
We showed strong results across a broad spread of markets, with resilience in 
Returns markets and positive performance across Growth markets. However,  
the threshold target was not met. 
15 0
Individual objectives  10 9
Achievement of bonus for 2015  100 80
KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy – see how we measure our performance on page 12. 
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed. Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to malus 
provisions before payment and claw back during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned. Claw back 
may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level 
of bonus that would otherwise have been paid. 
Share Matching Scheme 
SMS awards were made to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips in February 2013 which will vest in February 2016 based on an EPS 
performance condition measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2015 as set out below.  
 Performance target 
Actual 
performance
Threshold 
vesting  
of award 
Maximum 
level of 
vesting 
Actual 
percentage 
vesting
Adjusted EPS
 KPI
 3% – 6% average annual growth over UK 
inflation 
(0.5%) 50% 100% 0
Long Term Incentive Plan 
LTIP awards were made to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips in December 2012 which will vest in December 2015 based on performance 
conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.  
 Performance target 
Actual 
performance
Threshold 
vesting  
of award 
Maximum 
percentage 
of award
Actual 
percentage 
of award
Adjusted EPS
 KPI
 3% – 10% average annual growth over  
UK inflation 
(0.5%) 6.25 50 0
TSR against comparator group
1
 Threshold exceeds bottom 6 companies 
Maximum exceeds bottom 9 companies 
6 companies 
exceeded
7.5 25 7.5
TSR against FTSE 100
 KPI
 Threshold exceeds 50% of companies 
Maximum when 75% of companies exceeded 
62% of 
companies 
exceeded
7.5 25 16.25
Achievement of LTIP for 2015   100 23.75
1 The companies comprising the comparator group are: 
Anheuser-Busch NV InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A/S 
Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. 
Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American SABMiller PLC 
KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy – see how we measure our performance on page 12. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over  
a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices. Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared  
ex dividend. The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for 
several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations. PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS 
performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.  
Sharesave Plan 
We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term 
shareholders. Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the 
Sharesave Plan. Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the  
day prior to invitation. The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to £250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only  
three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares. In common with most plans of this type, no 
performance conditions are applied. In the financial year ending 30 September 2015, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips had Sharesave 
plans vesting (2014: nil) and details are included in the single figure table on page 56.  
Total Pension Entitlements (Audited)  
The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund (the Fund), which is  
the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK. 
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund. For members who joined prior to 1 April 
2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60. New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue 
pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund. 
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are in receipt of a salary supplement. Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension benefits were limited by the effect 
of HMRC’s earnings cap. Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable 
service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward. For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of  
the Fund’s earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1/60th with a 50 per cent spouse’s pension, and 
member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable. As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary 
through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme (UURBS), Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips each receive a salary supplement 
of 12 per cent of this amount. 
Oliver Tant is also in receipt of a salary supplement equal to 12 per cent of his basic salary. In addition, under the rules of the defined 
contribution section of the Fund, Oliver Tant has opted to limit total contributions (Member and Company) to the Fund to a level which should 
not result in him incurring an Annual Allowance charge. As a result, any additional Company contribution which would have been due to be 
paid to the Fund, had Oliver Tant not opted to cap contributions, is paid to him as a salary supplement and is included in the figures in the 
table on page 59. 
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they  
are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employer’s national insurance contributions. The supplements are non-compensatory 
and non-pensionable. 
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Fund’s scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2011/12, 2012/13 and 2013/14 
tax years. His accrued pension was reduced by £11,428.63 a year (including revaluation) to offset these Annual Allowance charge payments. 
This reduction to pension is reflected in the accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2015 (it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as 
at 30 September 2015). 
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) and gives details for each Executive Director of: 
– the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he/she had left service at the year-end (any potential UURBS entitlement 
is included); 
– the normal retirement ages; 
– the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations; 
– the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any director’s contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in 
accordance with the Regulations; and 
– any payments in lieu of retirement benefits. 
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 
Executive Directors’ Pension Disclosures (Audited)  
£’000 
Age at 
30/09/2015 
Pensionable 
service at 
30/09/2015
Accrued pension  
Single Figure numbers 
 
Extra information to be disclosed 
under 2013 Directors 
Remuneration Regulations 
Payment 
in lieu of 
retirement 
benefits 
(ie pension 
supplement) 
£’000
Value x 20 
over year (net 
of director’s 
contributions) 
£’000
Total 
pension 
benefits 
£’000 
Normal 
retirement 
age 
Value x 20 
at start 
of year 
£’000
Value x 20 
at end 
of year 
£’000 01/10/2014 30/9/2015
Alison Cooper 49 16 168 192 91 386 480  60 3,360 3,840
Matthew Phillips 44 15 86 98 32 264 296  60 1,720 1,960
Oliver Tant
1
 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A  N/A N/A N/A
1 Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund. He received a pension contribution into the defined contribution 
section of £40,000 (made up of £363 Company contribution plus £39,637 in respect of a salary sacrifice by Mr Tant in lieu of his personal contribution). In addition a 
salary supplement of £75,600, representing 12 per cent of Mr Tant’s basic salary, was paid to him together with an additional supplement of £87,836 in lieu of Company 
pension contributions which were not made to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in order to maintain Mr Tant’s total contributions within the Annual Allowance for 
pensions savings). 
Management Changes on Completion of Acquisition of USA Assets 
In June 2015 we completed the acquisition of a number of cigarette and e-cigarette brands and assets in the USA. This acquisition transforms 
our position in the USA and increases our opportunity for leadership and international expansion in e-cigarettes through blu. Following 
completion of the acquisition we made a number of key management changes to ensure we had the right management structure in place  
to lead the enlarged Group including the appointment of Matthew Phillips to the role of Chief Development Officer. As well as retaining his 
responsibilities for group legal, corporate affairs, communications, market regulation and countering illicit trade, Matthew became responsible 
for corporate and strategic development and for the enlarged Fontem Ventures, including blu. In this new role, he will provide a focus on the 
Group’s ongoing international development. 
The Remuneration Committee changed Matthew’s remuneration to reflect this new role and significantly increased responsibilities, with  
a base salary of £525,000 and a bonus and LTIP opportunity of 200 per cent and 250 per cent respectively. This provides a remuneration 
opportunity, subject to performance, that is at the median when compared to similar roles in comparable organisations. 
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees 
Chief Executive All Employees
1
 
to  
30 September 
2015 
Percentage 
change 
(2015 vs 2014) 
Percentage 
change 
(2015 vs 2014)
Salary £965,000 4.9 3.3
Benefits £16,000 0 0
Bonus £1,544,000 21.6 5.0
1 Based on members of our Corporate Management Group. 
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay 
The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks. 
£million unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 
Percentage 
change 
Overall expenditure on pay
1
 811 899
R
(9.8) 
Dividend paid in the year 1,259 1,149 9.6 
Share buyback
2
  0 341 N/A 
1 Excludes employers’ social security costs. 
2 Share buybacks were stopped in July 2014. 
R Restated on adoption of IFRS 11: joint arrangements. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Share Interests and Incentives (Audited)  
All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Company’s shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess  
of their requirement or being within five years of appointment. Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 
 
Shares held Options held 
Shareholding 
required  
(% salary) 
Current  
shareholding  
 (% salary)
1
 Requirement met
2
Owned 
outright 
Vested but 
subject to 
holding 
period
Unvested 
and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Unvested 
and subject 
to continued 
employment
Vested 
but not 
exercised
Executive Directors    
Alison Cooper 161,708 7,150 339,783 354 – 300 565  Yes 
Oliver Tant 829 389 88,275 441 – 300 7  In role for less 
 than five years 
Matthew Phillips 43,765 105 103,179 407 – 300 277  In role for less 
 than five years 
Non-Executive Directors    
Mark Williamson 9,237 – – – – – –  N/A 
Ken Burnett 2,772 – – – – – –  N/A 
David Haines 843 – – – – – –  N/A 
Michael Herlihy 4,956 – – – – – –  N/A 
Karen Witts 312 – – – – – –  N/A 
Malcolm Wyman 3,767 – – – – – –  N/A 
1 Based on a share price of £34.13 being the closing price on 30 September 2015. 
2 Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares 
which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment. 
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year (Audited)  
Following shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, no further awards to Executive Directors under the SMS will be made  
and the historic award levels have been consolidated into the Group’s LTIP.  
To allow for the changes to be considered by shareholders the award which would normally have been granted in November 2014 was 
delayed and granted during February 2015. It is intended that future LTIP awards will be made in February each year in order for any  
change in policy to be considered by shareholders immediately prior to grant. 
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.  
 
Number of nil 
cost options Face value
1
 
Amount of 
base salary End of performance period
Threshold 
vesting
Weighting  
(of award) Performance condition
2, 3
Alison Cooper 111,652 £3,377,500  
 
350% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth    
25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth    
25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke   
 comparator group   
Oliver Tant 52,066 £1,575,000  
 
250% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth    
25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth    
25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke   
 comparator group   
Matthew 
Phillips 
31,586 £955,500  
 
210% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth    
25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth    
25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke   
 comparator group   
1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant (15 February 2015) being £30.25 per share. 
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below. 
3 Key performance indicators used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy – see how we measure our performance on page 12. 
Performance Criterion – EPS Element 
This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP award. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the following vesting schedule. 
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 3% per annum nil
3% per annum 25%
3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
8% per annum or higher 100%
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth Element 
The net revenue growth criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP award. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the 
following vesting schedule. 
Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 1% per annum nil
1% per annum 25%
1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
4% per annum or higher 100%
Performance Criterion – TSR Element 
The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer 
goods sector and is applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP award. 
The companies within the comparator group are currently: 
Anheuser-Busch  
InBev NV 
Altria Group Inc Associated British  
Foods PLC 
AstraZeneca PLC British American  
Tobacco PLC 
Burberry Group PLC BT Group PLC Capita PLC Carlsberg A/S Carnival PLC 
Compass Group PLC Diageo PLC Experian Finance PLC GlaxoSmithkline PLC Heineken NV 
International Consolidated 
Airlines Group SA 
InterContinental Hotels  
Group PLC 
ITV PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Kingfisher PLC 
Marks & Spencer  
Group PLC 
Next PLC Pearson PLC Philip Morris  
International Inc 
Pernod Ricard SA 
Reckitt Benckiser  
Group PLC 
Reed Elsevier PLC Rexam PLC  Reynolds American Rolls-Royce PLC 
SAB Miller PLC J Sainsbury PLC Smith & Nephew PLC Shire PLC Tate & Lyle PLC 
Tesco PLC Unilever PLC Vodafone Group PLC Whitbread PLC WM Morrison Supermarkets 
PLC 
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: 
Relative TSR performance Shares vesting (as percentage of element)
Below median of peer group nil
At median of peer group 25%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
Above upper quartile 100%
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding 
awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Remuneration decisions taken in 2014/15 
Salary  
The Committee sets base salaries having regard to individual and Company performance, changes to the individual’s role and market data  
for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Company’s size, sector and global reach. Consideration is given to 
the effect any amendment to an individual’s base salary would have on their total remuneration package. Base salary is the only element of 
the package used to determine pensionable earnings. 
An above inflation increase has been awarded to Alison Cooper reflecting the Group’s strong performance in the year. As previously 
communicated, on her appointment Alison’s salary was set significantly below market levels with the intention to increase it over time;  
the increase is consistent with this approach.  
An increase of 3 per cent, in line with other UK management, is awarded to the other Executive Directors.  
There was no increase in Non-Executive Directors’ fees, with the exception of the Chairman whose fee was brought closer to market levels 
through an increase from £450,000 to £500,000. This being the first increase in Chairman’s fees since 1 October 2011. 
Salary 2014/15 Salary 2015/16
Percentage
Change
Alison Cooper £965,000  £1,020,000 5.7
Oliver Tant £630,000   £649,000 3.0
Matthew Phillips £525,000
1
 £541,000 3.0 
1 Salary following significant increase in responsibilities. Matthew Phillips’s base salary for his previous role was £455,000. 
Annual Bonus  
Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance. We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have  
a major element of Executive Directors’ remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Group’s annual objectives and enhancing 
performance against key financial and non-financial targets.  
Following Matthew Phillips’ appointment as Chief Development Officer, his maximum bonus opportunity was increased to 200 per cent. 
 
Revised 
maximum 
percentage 
of salary
Former 
maximum 
percentage 
of salary
Alison Cooper 200 200 
Oliver Tant 200 200
Matthew Phillips 200 175
Fifty per cent of net bonus paid will be in the form of the Group’s shares deferred for a three year period; the remaining fifty per cent will  
be paid in cash. 
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below. 
 Performance target 
Maximum 
of bonus
Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 35%
Cash conversion Commercially confidential 25%
Volume growth in Growth Brands Out-performance of market growth 15%
Non-financial Market share targets 15%
Individual objectives  Commercially confidential 10%
At this point, the above performance targets are considered commercially confidential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further 
details will be provided retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report. The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always 
be confidential but will review this on a year-by-year basis. 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 
Share Plan Awards 
Following Matthew Phillips’ appointment as Chief Development Officer, his maximum LTIP opportunity was increased to 250 per cent. 
 
Revised 
maximum 
opportunity – 
percentage 
of salary
Former 
maximum 
opportunity – 
percentage 
of salary
Alison Cooper 350 350 
Oliver Tant 250 250
Matthew Phillips 250 210
The awards will be subject to performance criteria as summarised below.  
Performance criteria 
Weighting 
in LTIP
Adjusted EPS growth 50%
TSR 20%
Net revenue growth 30%
When setting the performance criteria the Committee takes account of the Group’s long-term plans and analysts’ forecasts.  
Performance Criterion – EPS Element 
This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP awards. Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting 
schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis. The proposed vesting schedule for the awards to be granted in February 2016 is set 
out below. The EPS target for this award has been exceptionally increased to reflect the positive impact of the USA acquisition on EPS growth 
in 2016. 
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 5% per annum nil
5% per annum 25%
5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
10% per annum or higher 100%
Performance Criterion – TSR Element 
The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including 40 companies across a broadly defined 
consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP. 
The companies within the comparator group are: 
Anheuser-Busch  
InBev NV 
Altria Group Inc Associated British  
Foods PLC 
AstraZeneca PLC British American  
Tobacco PLC 
Burberry Group PLC BT Group PLC Capita PLC Carlsberg A/S Carnival PLC 
Compass Group PLC Diageo PLC Experian Finance PLC GlaxoSmithkline PLC Heineken NV 
International Consolidated 
Airlines Group SA 
InterContinental Hotels  
Group PLC 
ITV PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Kingfisher PLC 
Lorillard Inc Marks & Spencer  
Group PLC 
Next PLC Pearson PLC Philip Morris  
International Inc 
Pernod Ricard SA Reckitt Benckiser  
Group PLC 
Reed Elsevier PLC Reynolds American  Rolls-Royce PLC 
SAB Miller PLC J Sainsbury PLC Smith & Nephew PLC Shire PLC Tate & Lyle PLC 
Tesco PLC Unilever PLC Vodafone Group PLC Whitbread PLC WM Morrison Supermarkets 
PLC 
 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: 
Relative TSR performance Shares vesting (as percentage of element)
Below median of peer group nil
At median of peer group 25%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
Above upper quartile 100%
Performance Criterion – Net Revenue Growth Element 
This criterion will be used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards. Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule 
below. This year the net revenue growth target for this award has been exceptionally increased to reflect the positive impact of the USA 
acquisition on net revenue growth in 2016. 
Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting (as a percentage of element)
Less than 3% per annum nil
3% per annum 25%
3% to 6% per annum Between 25% and 100% (pro rata)
6% per annum or higher 100%
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition. Any outstanding 
awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria. 
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM  
At the 2015 AGM a small number of shareholders expressed concerns with various aspects of our remuneration. These concerns included 
the performance criteria used for our variable remuneration and above inflation increases in executive remuneration. Some shareholders also 
raised their expectation that incentive targets should be adjusted following the USA acquisition. Shareholder views were taken into account by 
the Committee when reviewing remuneration and adjusting and setting LTIP targets. The targets within our LTIPs have been adjusted in line 
with policy to ensure that they are no more materially difficult to achieve than originally intended. 
Votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors’ remuneration were as follows: 
Resolution 
Votes for 
including 
discretionary 
votes Percentage for Votes against
Percentage 
against
Total votes  
cast excluding 
votes withheld Votes withheld
Total votes 
cast including 
votes withheld
Directors’ Remuneration Report 711,696,277 94.5241,277,055 5.48752,973,332 9,694,951762,668,283
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 704,892,593  93.57 48,447,661 6.43 753,340,254 9,328,030762,668,284
Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law. 
Advice Provided to the Committee 
New Bridge Street (NBS) is retained, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only 
material, external advisor. NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate 
governance best practice. NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and 
reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice. 
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to 
ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence. NBS’ parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other 
human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group. Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of 
NBS’ advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group does not impact on NBS’ independence.  
During the year NBS was paid fees of £152,000. 
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: 
– Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return (TSR) calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters. During the year it  
was paid fees of £19,500. Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group; 
– Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required. It was not used for remuneration-related 
advice during the financial year. Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group; 
– Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Group’s employee share plans;  
– PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), our Auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share (EPS) calculations used in 
relation to our employee share plans’ performance criteria. During the financial year PwC was paid £1,800 in respect of services to the 
Committee; and 
– Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our Remuneration Policy for executives. During the year  
it was paid fees of £54,000 for these services. Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group. 
All of these advisors were appointed by the Committee which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way 
compromises their independence. They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee. 
The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on market 
and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and on our employee share plans. Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept 
fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and our most senior executives.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 
Other Information 
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2015, being the last trading day of the financial year, was  
£34.13 and the range of the middle market price during the year was £25.02 to £35.14. 
Full details of the Directors’ share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors’ Interests at our registered office. 
Award Dates 
Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle. 
Review of Past Performance  
The chart below shows the value of £100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the  
FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2015. We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most 
appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a seven year period. 
 
Change in Chief Executive Remuneration 
 
2015  
Alison Cooper 
2014 
Alison Cooper 
2013 
Alison Cooper
2012  
Alison Cooper
1
2011  
Alison Cooper
1
2010   
Alison Cooper
1
 
2010    
Gareth Davis
2,3
2009 
Gareth Davis
Total remuneration £’000 3,582 2,686 2,011 2,793 2,737 1,347  5,453  5,099
Annual Bonus as a 
percentage  
of maximum 80 69 34 51.2 33.1 84.7  84.7  85.2
Shares vesting as a 
percentage  
of maximum 15.8 5.8 nil 58.0 71.6 80.8  46.93  74.5
1 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive. 
2 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement. 
3 Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement. 
Operating Executive (excluding Executive Directors)  
£’000 2015 2014
Base salary 2,221 2,143
Benefits  189 160
Pension salary supplement  261 218
Bonus 2,572 1,291
LTIP annual vesting
1
 402 90
SMS annual vesting
2
 nil nil
 5,645 3,902
1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise. 
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting. 
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in 
accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was £14,526,087 (2014: £11,073,194).  
  
100
150
200
250
300
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100
Total Return Indices – Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued 
66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Key Management
*
 Compensation for the Year Ended  
30 September 2015 (Audited) 
£’000 2015 2014
Short-term employee benefits  11,681 9,575
Post-employment benefits 1,182 1,186
Other long-term benefits  – –
Termination benefits – –
Share-based payment (in accordance with IAS 24) 2,722 833
 15,585 11,594
* Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary. 
Employee Benefit Trusts 
Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares 
held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust (the 
Executive Trust) and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust (the 2001 Trust) (together the Employee Benefit Trusts). 
As at 30 September 2015, we held 78,909,137ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our 
employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.  
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.  
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: 
 
Balance at 
01/10/2014
Acquired 
during year
Distributed 
during year
Balance at 
30/09/2015 
Ordinary shares 
under award at 
30/09/2015
Surplus/
(shortfall)
Executive Trust 698,894 nil (23,431) 675,463 829,281 (153,818)
2001 Trust 3,458,219 nil (968,327) 2,489,892 4,296,501 (1,806,609)
Share Plan Flow Rates 
The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and 
awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction 
to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans. Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital 
(including shares held in treasury) is subject to options and awards under the Group’s executive and all employee share plans.  
Summary of Options and Awards Granted 
Limit on awards 
Cumulative options and awards granted 
as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
Options and awards granted during the year 
as a percentage of issued share capital 
(including those held in treasury)
10% in 10 years 1.8 0.2
5% in 5 years 0.8 0.2
5% in 10 years (executive plans) 1.3 0.1
For the Board 
 
 
 
 
David Haines 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
3 November 2015  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES – CONTENTS
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 68
Consolidated Income Statement 74
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 75
Consolidated Balance Sheet 76
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 77
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 78 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting Policies 79
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 84
3 Segment Information 85
4 Profit Before Taxation 87
5 Restructuring Costs 87
6 Directors and Employees 88
7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to  
Adjusted Net Finance Costs 88
8 Taxation 89
9 Dividends 90
10 Earnings Per Share 90
11 Intangible Assets 91
12 Property, Plant and Equipment 93
13 Joint Ventures 94
14 Inventories 95
15 Trade and Other Receivables 95
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 95
17 Trade and Other Payables 95
18 Borrowings 96
19 Financial Risk Factors 97
20 Derivative Financial Instruments 102
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 104
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 105
23 Provisions 110
24 Share Capital 110
25 Share Schemes 110
26 Treasury Shares 113
27 Commitments 113
28 Legal Proceedings 113
29 Acquisitions 113
30 Net Debt 114
31 Reconcilliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 115
32 Changes in Non-Controlling Interests 115
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 116
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 117
Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 118
Related Undertakings 121
Shareholder Information 131 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
Report on the group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s Group financial statements (the “financial statements”):
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the  
year then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the  
European Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 – The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2015;
 – The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
 – The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended;
 – The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 – The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Context
The context for our audit was set by Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s major activities in 2015. The principal change which affected our  
audit was the completion of a £4,613 million acquisition in the USA, as a result of which we brought in a new component team in 
Greensboro in the USA and focused on the acquisition accounting for the business combination. 
Overview
 – Overall Group materiality: £115 million which represents 4.4% of adjusted Group profit 
before taxation.
 – Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement we selected 22 reporting 
entities which represent the principal business units.
 – We conducted full scope audit work at 21 of these reporting entities which included 
significant operations in the UK, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, USA, Morocco, Australia, 
France and five other locations. We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia.
 – In addition certain central reporting entities and Group functions, including those covering 
treasury, taxation and retirement benefits, and the Parent Company were subject to a full 
scope audit.
 – Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
 – Acquisition accounting.
 – Revenue recognition.
 – Accounting for restructuring provisions.
 – Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks.
Materiality 
Audit scope 
Areas of
 
focus  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented  
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order  
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be 
read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment
We focused on this area because the determination of whether 
elements of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired involves 
complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the 
future results of the relevant parts of the business.
At September 2015 the Group had £10,380 million of goodwill and  
£509 million of intangible assets with indefinite lives and reasonable 
headroom in the majority of the Group’s groupings of cash 
generating units (CGU’s).
We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting 
segment (£1,953 million of goodwill and intangible assets with 
indefinite lives). Growth Markets is made up of a number of 
operating segments and individual CGU’s, including the Drive 
Growth CGU grouping and the Other Premium Cigar CGU  
grouping. For both of these goodwill is analysed separately and 
management’s assessment indicated low headroom (£69 million 
and £17 million respectively).
For the Drive Growth CGU grouping we focused on the valuation of 
both the Russian and Italian businesses, which represent the most 
material parts of this CGU grouping. In particular we considered the 
robustness of short term growth included in the impairment models, 
together with discount rates and long term growth rates.
For the Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping the valuation is 
dependent on continuing steady profit growth. As such we focused 
on the assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in 
the context of constraints which could reasonably impact their ability 
to meet forecast.
We challenged the Directors’ analysis around the key drivers of the 
cash flow forecasts including the ability to achieve sustained price 
increases, market size and market share. We also evaluated the 
appropriateness of the key assumptions including discount rates, 
short term and long term growth rates and performed sensitivities 
across the reporting segments.
For the Russian and Italian businesses we considered the evidence 
supporting the expected ability of the market to absorb future  
price increases relative to anticipated volume declines. We also 
considered the impact of current and expected legislative and  
duty changes on the business and considered the accuracy of 
management’s current year forecasts.
For the Other Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the 
reasonableness of the Directors’ forecast by challenging key 
assumptions about growth strategies including supply constraints, 
opportunities in new markets and changes in the relationship 
between the USA and Cuba. We also considered the accuracy  
of management’s current year forecasts.
As a result of our work we determined that the judgement by 
management that no impairment was required in respect of  
Drive Growth and Other Premium Cigar was reasonable. We note 
however that goodwill and intangibles held by these businesses 
remain sensitive to changes in key assumptions and, in the case of 
Russia, to adverse changes in macro-economic factors. Given this 
management has disclosed relevant sensitivities (see note 11).
Acquisition accounting
During the year the Group acquired certain USA cigarette and 
e-cigarette brands and assets for £4,613 million. The acquisition is 
accounted for as a business combination in relation to which there 
are a number of significant and complex judgements involved in the 
determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. 
A purchase price allocation exercise has been performed by 
management, assisted by external experts. The primary element  
of the valuation exercise assessed the fair value of intangible assets 
in the form of acquired brands (£4,053 million) and goodwill (£381 
million). The allocation also considered the fair values of property, 
plant and equipment, inventory, post retirement obligations and 
scheme assets, other liabilities and tax.
For the intangible assets, we assessed the methodology adopted by 
management and their experts for calculating the brand allocation, 
particularly in respect of the:
 – cash flow forecasts used in the valuation process
 – assumed useful lives of the brands
 – allocation and impact of working capital movements
 – discount rate applicable to the transaction
 – impact of synergies in respect of the existing USA business
Further to this we analysed management’s future projections and 
assessed the total asset assigned to each brand and goodwill.
We tested the remaining acquired items, for example, by attending 
inventory counts, and examining third party valuations in respect of 
fixed assets. In respect of post retirement obligations we tested the 
demographic data used by the reporting actuaries and assessed the 
assumptions applied. For the pension scheme assets we confirmed 
existence with custodians and tested the valuation by reference to 
external price data or, where necessary, used our specialists to 
independently re-perform the valuation of the asset.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition 
Revenue recognition is, under normal Group terms and conditions, 
not complex with accounts receivable converted to cash in a timely 
manner. Returns have historically been immaterial and our testing 
did not identify any evidence of significant levels of returns.
We also focused on the timing of revenue recognition because of 
the risk associated with the levels of inventory sold into, and held  
in, distribution channels and the contractual terms those goods 
were sold under.
We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and whether the Group 
appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual 
terms and obligations with distributors and other customers.  
For certain key distributors we obtained confirmation of the volume 
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC products held in their year-end 
inventory. We compared this to prior period levels and trends in 
sales volumes over the year. We noted no instances of inappropriate 
revenue recognition arising in our testing.
We evaluated contractual terms around the year end, including 
consideration of any complex or judgemental elements included in 
contractual arrangements, and tested accounts receivable balances 
through a combination of third party confirmations and subsequent 
remittances, with no material exceptions noted from our testing.  
We evaluated evidence of the level of returns received after the year 
end and noted no material issues arising. 
We also used a combination of manual and computer assisted  
audit techniques in order to extract and test journal entries posted 
to revenue and other general ledger accounts, which did not identify 
unexplained unusual or irregular items.
Accounting for restructuring provisions
The Group has partially completed a significant multi-year cost 
optimisation programme including factory closures, organisational 
rationalisation and the establishment of shared service centres.  
The Group is also integrating the recent US acquisition. Management 
has indicated they expect these programmes will require several  
years to complete. In 2015 the charge in the Consolidated Income 
Statement relating to these programmes was £328 million and there 
is a total restructuring provision held on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet of £278 million. The restructuring charge is separately identified 
on the face of the income statement and excluded from the non-
GAAP earnings measure Adjusted Operating Profit. The recognition  
of restructuring costs requires judgement to estimate the value and 
timing of net economic outflows and the extent to which the Group  
is externally committed. The presentation in the financial statements 
also requires consideration of whether the amounts included in the 
charge are fair and whether their separate presentation is helpful in 
understanding financial performance.
The cost optimisation programme operates predominantly through  
a series of distinct projects incorporating centralised governance 
and project management supporting local execution. This process 
gives rise to a series of specific restructuring charges being booked 
either at head office level or in individual component businesses.  
We conducted audit testing through our Group team on centrally 
held charges and through local testing of charges at component 
businesses. Because the total restructuring cost also included some 
costs incurred at business units not included in our full scope audits 
the Group team tested these on a sample basis.
Using this approach we tested the valuation, accuracy and 
completeness of the individual restructuring costs. These primarily 
consisted of redundancies and related costs, consulting and 
professional fees and asset impairments. We found no material 
exceptions in our testing.
The principal areas of judgement underlying this work related to:
 – the estimation of uncertain liabilities and impairment losses, 
 – the extent to which costs incurred on projects were sufficiently 
distinct and incremental to warrant inclusion in the restructuring 
charge and,
 – projects which did not fit readily into the major elements of  
the programme but were considered by management to be 
appropriate for inclusion within the overall restructuring charge. 
We challenged management over the basis for their judgements  
in these areas and determined that the amounts included in the 
charge were reasonable.
We also considered the merits of separate disclosure of the 
restructuring charge and discussed this with management and  
the Audit Committee. We concurred with their conclusion that  
the extensive scale and cost of the programme, its duration over 
several years and the level of centralised Group wide control and 
Board focus, indicated that separate disclosure was acceptable.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions  
held against risks
There are a number of significant judgements involved in the 
determination of tax balances, specifically in relation to the recognition 
of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation liabilities in 
relation to the distribution of reserves held in overseas subsidiaries.  
The Group also has a number of uncertain tax positions in relation  
to which management apply judgement in setting provisions.
Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities  
of dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, 
this was an area of focus for us.
In the calculation of deferred taxes, we assessed the adequacy  
of tax loss recognition and the level of provision established in 
relation to a number of uncertain tax positions primarily in Europe. 
We determined that the position adopted in the financial statements 
was reasonable based on our consideration of management’s 
assessment of the recoverability of tax losses and the basis for  
their provision for uncertain tax outcomes.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements  
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
the Group operates. 
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics. The Group financial statements are a consolidation  
of 272 legal entities represented by 236 reporting entities, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and centralised functions.
The Group’s accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group 
operates. These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol through 
an integrated consolidation system. In our view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, 21 of the 236 reporting entities, 
including the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other 
PwC network firms, and other firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these 
territories to perform this audit work. We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia based on our assessment of the risk of 
misstatement and the scale of operations at this business unit.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work  
at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion  
on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis. In the current year the Group team visited the USA  
(the legacy business and the new acquisition), Morocco, the Middle East, Turkey and the Netherlands, as well as in-scope UK reporting 
locations. Video conferences were held at least once with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity  
and those undertaking specific procedures to discuss the results of the work performed. In addition the Group engagement team reviewed 
working papers of the auditors of the more significant components.
We also met the other auditors used on the Logistics sub-group and reviewed their working papers during the year.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team  
at the head office. These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and retirement 
benefits. The Parent Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, the reporting entities and Group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 83% of Group 
revenues and in excess of 90% of both Group profit before tax and Group adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually 
and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £115 million (2014: £110 million).
How we determined it 4.4% of adjusted Group profit before taxation.
Rationale for  
benchmark applied
We believe that adjusted profit before tax is the primary measure used by shareholders and other users  
in assessing the performance of the Group, and that by excluding items (including finance costs and 
restructuring costs) it provides a clearer view on the performance of the underlying business.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group 
materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between £10 million and £30 million 
for the trading entities and £80 million for the financing and treasury entity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million  
(2014: £10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going concern.  
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that  
the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have 
concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s ability  
to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the  
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
 – the statement given by the Directors on page 31, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK  
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole  
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to  
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
 – the section of the Annual Report on pages 37 – 40, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated  
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity  
of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 – the Directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment  
of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model,  
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 – the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being  
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 – the Directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of  
the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate,  
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able  
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 30. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their 
statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the 
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration  
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions  
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide  
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the  
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent  
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended  
30 September 2015 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Maitland (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Bristol
3 November 2015 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September 
£ million unless otherwise indicated Notes 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Revenue 3 25,289 26,460 
Duty and similar items (12,585) (12,928)
Other cost of sales (7,533) (8,351)
Cost of sales (20,118) (21,279)
Gross profit 5,171 5,181 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (1,857) (1,929)
Acquisition costs 29 (40) (13)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11 (697) (644)
Restructuring costs 5 (328) (305)
Other expenses (261) (271)
Administrative and other expenses (1,326) (1,233)
Operating profit 3 1,988 2,019 
Investment income 948 516 
Finance costs (1,209) (1,059)
Net finance costs 7 (261) (543)
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 13 29 49 
Profit before taxation 4 1,756 1,525 
Taxation 8 (33) (80)
Profit for the year 1,723 1,445 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,691 1,422 
Non-controlling interests 32 23 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
 – Basic 10 177.4 148.5 
 – Diluted 10 176.9 148.1 
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IFRS 11 – see note 1. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 September
£ million Notes 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Profit for the year 1,723 1,445 
Other comprehensive income
Exchange movements (198) (581)
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss (198) (581)
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefits 22 (28) 45 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial losses/(gains) on retirement benefits 21 5 (1)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss (23) 44 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (221) (537)
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,502 908 
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent 1,489 900 
Non-controlling interests 13 8 
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,502 908 
Reconciliation from Operating Profit to Adjusted Operating Profit
£ million Notes 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Operating profit 1,988 2,019 
Acquisition costs 29 40 13 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11 697 644 
Restructuring costs 5 328 305 
Adjusted operating profit 3 3,053 2,981
Reconciliation from Net Finance Costs to Adjusted Net Finance Costs
£ million Notes 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Net finance costs (261) (543)
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments 7 (226) (12)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 7 20 40 
Adjusted net finance costs 7 (467) (515)
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IFRS 11 – see note 1. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 30 September
£ million Notes 2015
2014  
(Restated)
2013  
(Restated)
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 18,690 15,334 16,855 
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,768 1,854 2,069 
Investments accounted for using the equity method 13 598 561 546 
Retirement benefit assets 22 92 44 5 
Trade and other receivables 15 84 69 80 
Derivative financial instruments 20 901 605 312 
Deferred tax assets 21 533 241 153 
22,666 18,708 20,020 
Current assets
Inventories 14 2,842 2,875 3,239 
Trade and other receivables 15 2,454 2,761 2,899 
Current tax assets 8 56 96 72 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 2,042 1,413 1,793 
Derivative financial instruments 20 74 38 245 
7,468 7,183 8,248 
Total assets 30,134 25,891 28,268 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (1,957) (429) (3,236)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (25) (46) (219)
Trade and other payables 17 (6,795) (6,957) (7,303)
Current tax liabilities 8 (167) (128) (137)
Provisions 23 (197) (175) (89)
(9,141) (7,735) (10,984)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (12,250) (9,462) (7,857)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (735) (645) (531)
Trade and other payables 17 (13) (21) (17)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (1,170) (1,430) (1,779)
Retirement benefit liabilities 22 (909) (824) (1,055)
Provisions 23 (220) (311) (406)
(15,297) (12,693) (11,645)
Total liabilities (24,438) (20,428) (22,629)
Net assets 5,696 5,463 5,639 
Equity
Share capital 24 104 104 107 
Share premium and capital redemption 5,836 5,836 5,833 
Retained earnings (315) (756) (791)
Exchange translation reserve (298) (119) 447 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 5,327 5,065 5,596 
Non-controlling interests 32 369 398 43 
Total equity 5,696 5,463 5,639 
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IFRS 11 – see note 1.
The financial statements on page 74 to 115 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 November 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Williamson Oliver Tant
Chairman Director Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 September
£ million
Share 
capital 
Share  
premium 
and capital 
redemption 
Retained 
earnings 
Exchange 
translation 
reserve 
Equity 
attributable  
to owners  
of the parent 
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
Total 
equity 
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 104 5,836 (756) (119) 5,065 398 5,463 
Profit for the year – – 1,691 – 1,691 32 1,723 
Exchange movements – – – (179) (179) (19) (198)
Net actuarial losses  
on retirement benefits – – (28) – (28) – (28)
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial 
losses on retirement benefits – – 5 – 5 – 5 
Other comprehensive income – – (23) (179) (202) (19) (221)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,668 (179) 1,489 13 1,502 
Transactions with owners
Cash from employees on maturity/
exercise of share schemes – – 7 – 7 – 7 
Costs of employees’ services 
compensated by share schemes – – 22 – 22 – 22 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 3 – 3 – 3 
Dividends paid – – (1,259) – (1,259) (42) (1,301)
At 30 September 2015 104 5,836 (315) (298) 5,327 369 5,696 
At 1 October 2013 (Restated) 107 5,833 (791) 447 5,596 43 5,639 
Profit for the year – – 1,422 – 1,422 23 1,445 
Exchange movements – – – (566) (566) (15) (581)
Net actuarial gains  
on retirement benefits – – 45 – 45 – 45 
Deferred tax relating to net actuarial 
gains on retirement benefits – – (1) – (1) – (1)
Other comprehensive income – – 44 (566) (522) (15) (537)
Total comprehensive income – – 1,466 (566) 900 8 908 
Transactions with owners
Cash from employees on maturity/
exercise of share schemes – – 6 – 6 – 6 
Purchase of shares by Employee  
Share Ownership Trusts – – (2) – (2) – (2)
Costs of employees’ services 
compensated by share schemes – – 20 – 20 – 20 
Current tax on share-based payments – – 3 – 3 – 3 
Increase in own shares held  
as treasury shares – – (341) – (341) – (341)
Cancellation of own shares held  
as treasury shares (3) 3 – – – – – 
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (363) – (363) 363 – 
Proceeds, net of fees, from  
the disposal of Logista IPO – – 395 – 395 – 395 
Dividends paid – – (1,149) – (1,149) (16) (1,165)
At 30 September 2014 (Restated) 104 5,836 (756) (119) 5,065 398 5,463 
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IFRS 11 – see note 1. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 78
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 September
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit 1,988 2,019 
Dividends received from investments accounted for under the equity method 24 2 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 940 919 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) 6 
Profit on disposal of intellectual property (31) – 
Loss on disposal of software – 3 
Post-employment benefits (50) (156)
Costs of employees’ services compensated by share schemes 25 22 
Movement in provisions (67) 17 
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 2,827 2,832 
Decrease in inventories 21 121 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 218 (29)
Increase in trade and other payables 89 29 
Movement in working capital 328 121 
Taxation paid (408) (451)
Net cash generated from operating activities 2,747 2,502 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 10 10 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (194) (255)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 39 59 
Proceeds from the sale of intellectual property 31 – 
Purchase of intangible assets – software (44) (37)
Purchase of intangible assets – intellectual property rights – (46)
Internally generated intellectual property rights (16) (4)
Purchase of brands and operations (see note 29) (4,613) – 
Net cash used in investing activities (4,787) (273)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (459) (543)
Cash from employees on maturity/exercise of share schemes 7 6 
Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Trusts – (2)
Increase in borrowings 4,720 2,303 
Repayment of borrowings (380) (3,200)
Repayment of loan to joint ventures – 52 
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments 139 (121)
Purchase of treasury shares – (341)
Proceeds from sale of shares in a subsidiary to non-controlling interests (net of fees) (see note 32) – 395 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (42) (16)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent (1,259) (1,149)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 2,726 (2,616)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 686 (387)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 1,413 1,793 
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (57) 7 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,042 1,413 
Results and financial positions for 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 have been restated on adoption of IFRS 11 – see note 1. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention except where fair value measurement is required 
under IFRS as described below in the accounting policies on 
financial instruments.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period  
and of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance 
sheet date. The key estimates and assumptions are set out in  
note 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements. Such 
estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience  
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the 
circumstances and constitute management’s best judgement at  
the date of the financial statements. In the future, actual experience 
may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. This could 
affect future financial statements as the original estimates and 
assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which  
the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies  
is set out below.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results  
of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC (the Company) and its  
subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control 
exists when the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date 
that control ceases. Where necessary, accounting policies of 
subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
purchase of subsidiaries. The excess of the value transferred to the 
seller in return for control of the acquired business together with the 
fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over 
the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets is 
recorded as goodwill. 
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. 
Joint Ventures
The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements. Under IFRS 
11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights 
and obligations of each investor. The Group has assessed the 
nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint 
ventures. The financial statements of joint ventures are included  
in the Group financial statements using the equity accounting 
method, with the Group’s share of net assets included as a single 
line item entitled ‘Investments accounted for using the equity 
method’. In the same way, the Group’s share of earnings is 
presented in the consolidated income statement below operating 
profit entitled ‘Share of profit of investments accounted for using 
the equity method’.
Foreign Currency
Items included in the financial statements of each Group  
company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the company operates (the 
functional currency).
The income and cash flow statements of Group companies  
using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling 
(the Group’s presentational currency) at average rates of exchange 
in each period. Assets and liabilities of these companies are 
translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at 
average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences 
arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of  
the year.
Transactions in currencies other than a company’s functional 
currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at  
the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date  
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  
currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
with exchange differences arising on trading transactions being 
reported in operating profit, and those arising on financing 
transactions being reported in net finance costs unless as  
a result of net investment hedging they are reported in other 
comprehensive income.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external 
borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of 
Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after 
deducting permanent intragroup loans. Gains or losses on these 
hedges that are regarded as highly effective are transferred to  
other comprehensive income, where they offset gains or losses  
on translation of the net investments that are recorded in equity,  
in the exchange translation reserve.
Revenue Recognition
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced  
value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates 
and discounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised  
when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, 
the customer has accepted the products and collectability of  
the related receivables is reasonably assured. Sales of services, 
which include fees for distributing certain third party products,  
are recognised in the accounting period in which the services  
are rendered. 
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced value 
for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and 
discounts. The Logistics business only recognises commission 
revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a 
commission agent. Distribution and marketing commissions are 
included in revenue. Revenue is recognised on products on 
consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
Customer rebates and discounts may be offered to promote  
sales. The calculated costs are accrued and accounted for as 
incurred and matched as a deduction from the associated revenues 
(ie excluded from revenues reported in the Group’s consolidated 
income statement). 
Duty and Similar Items
Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the 
characteristics of duty. In countries where duty is a production tax, 
duty is included in revenue and in cost of sales in the consolidated 
income statement. Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from 
revenue and cost of sales. Payments due in the USA under the 
Master Settlement Agreement are considered to be levies having 
the characteristics of duty and are treated as a production tax.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
1 Accounting Policies continued
Taxes
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect 
of previous years. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns 
where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities only where it is considered more likely than 
not that an amount will be paid or received. This test is applied to 
each individual uncertain position which is then measured on the 
single most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences  
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the  
financial statements and the tax base, except if it arises from  
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other  
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred  
tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it 
is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the assets can be realised. Deferred tax is determined using the  
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred 
tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except 
where it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive  
income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in  
which the dividends are approved by shareholders, whereas  
interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the 
dividends are paid.
Intangible Assets – Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller  
in return for control of the acquired business together with the fair 
value of any previously held equity interest in that business over  
the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried  
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement and 
cannot be subsequently reversed. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units 
that are expected to benefit from the business combination in 
which the goodwill arose.
Intangible Assets – Other
Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the consolidated 
balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of 
a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised 
at fair value. They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost 
or fair value (depending on how they are acquired) less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, intellectual 
property, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships 
and computer software. The Davidoff cigarette trademark and 
some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors  
to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established 
international brands with global potential. Trademarks with indefinite 
lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment. 
Intellectual property (including trademarks), supply agreements 
(including customer relationships) and computer software are 
amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Intellectual property 5 – 30 years straight line
Supply agreements 3 – 15 years straight line
Software 3 – 5 years straight line
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown in the consolidated 
balance sheet at historical cost or fair value (depending on how 
they are acquired), less accumulated depreciation and impairment. 
Costs incurred after initial recognition are included in the assets’ 
carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated 
with them will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other property, 
plant and equipment so as to write down the initial cost of each 
asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows:
Property up to 50 years straight line
Plant and equipment 2 – 20 years straight line/
reducing balance
Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 – 15 years straight line
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and,  
if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Financial Instruments and Hedging
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when  
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
relevant instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when  
the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred,  
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards  
of ownership. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the 
obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and 
receivables. Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and  
are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. A provision for impairment of receivables  
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group  
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original 
terms of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present 
value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. For interest-bearing assets, the 
carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value 
and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. For borrowings, the carrying value includes 
accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs. 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held 
on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage  
the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. 
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for 
trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments are initially 
recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs. Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the 
consolidated balance sheet at fair value, and include accrued 
interest receivable and payable where relevant. However, as the 
Group has decided (as permitted under IAS 39) not to cash flow  
or fair value hedge account for its derivative financial instruments, 
changes in fair values are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement in the period in which they arise unless the derivative 
qualifies and has been designated as a net investment hedging 
instrument in which case the changes in fair values, attributable to 
foreign exchange, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit 
support annex documents under International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in respect of certain 
derivatives are net-settled and are therefore netted off the carrying 
value of those derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable  
value. Cost is determined using the first in first out (FIFO) method. 
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises  
raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related 
production overheads (based on normal operating capacity).  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and 
selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that  
exceeds 12 months is classified as a current asset, consistent  
with recognised industry practice.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when 
the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has 
approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring 
has either commenced or has been publicly announced, and it is 
more likely than not that the plan will be implemented, and the 
amount required to settle any obligations arising can be reliably 
estimated. Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood  
that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by 
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is 
recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any 
one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Retirement Benefit Schemes
For defined benefit schemes, the amount recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet is the difference between the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date 
and the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent that they are 
demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a reduction in future 
contributions. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually 
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of 
high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees 
during the year is charged to operating profit. Past service costs 
are recognised immediately in operating profit, unless the changes 
to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in 
service for a specified period of time.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual 
and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a 
result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised 
immediately in full in the statement of comprehensive income for 
the period in which they arise. An interest charge is made in the 
income statement by applying the rate used to discount the defined 
benefit obligations to the net defined benefit liability of the schemes.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are recognised as 
an employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Share-Based Payments
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based 
Payment Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled 
share-based employee compensation schemes. The majority  
of the Group’s schemes are equity-settled.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value  
at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting period, 
based on the number of instruments that are expected to vest.  
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder 
returns, the fair value at the date of grant reflects these conditions. 
Earnings per share and net revenue vesting conditions are reflected 
in the estimate of awards that will eventually vest. For cash-settled 
share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the 
services received is recognised at its current fair value at each 
balance sheet date. Where applicable the Group recognises the 
impact of revisions to original estimates in the consolidated income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-
settled schemes and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes. 
Fair values are measured using appropriate valuation models, 
taking into account the terms and conditions of the awards.
The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to shares 
arising under share-based employee compensation schemes. 
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share 
Ownership Trusts. On consolidation, these shares are accounted 
for as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the parent. 
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of 
any proceeds received by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Treasury Shares
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital 
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted  
on consolidation from equity attributable to owners of the parent 
until the shares are reissued or disposed of. When such shares  
are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net 
of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the 
related income tax effects, increases equity attributable to owners 
of the parent. When such shares are cancelled they are transferred 
to the capital redemption reserve. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82
1 Accounting Policies continued
Use of Adjusted Measures
Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures 
provide a useful comparison of business performance and reflect 
the way in which the business is controlled. Accordingly, adjusted 
measures of operating profit, net finance costs, profit before tax, 
taxation, attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, 
where applicable, acquisition costs, amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment benefits 
net financing cost, fair value and exchange gains and losses on 
financial instruments, and related taxation effects and significant 
one-off tax provision charges or credits arising from the resolution 
of prior year tax matters. Reconciliations between adjusted and 
reported operating profit are included within note 3 to the financial 
statements, adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 7, 
adjusted and reported taxation in note 8, and adjusted and 
reported earnings per share in note 10. 
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms under 
IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures 
reported by other companies. 
The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are 
one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not 
influenced by the day to day operations of the Group, and the 
movements in the fair value of financial instruments which are 
marked to market and not naturally offset. Adjusted net finance 
costs also excludes all post-employment benefit net finance cost 
since pension assets and liabilities and redundancy and social  
plan provisions do not form part of adjusted net debt. This allows 
comparison of the Group’s cost of debt with adjusted net debt. The 
adjusted measures are used by management to assess the Group’s 
financial performance and aid comparability of results year on year. 
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows:
Acquisition Costs
Adjusted measures exclude costs associated with major 
acquisitions as they do not relate to the day to day operational 
performance of the Group.
Amortisation and Impairment of Acquired Intangibles
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful 
economic lives where these are considered to be finite. Acquired 
intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised. 
We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation and 
impairment of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the 
deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles 
and tax deductible goodwill. The deferred tax is excluded on the 
basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the intangibles  
and goodwill. The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the 
adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments 
and Exchange Gains and Losses on Borrowings
IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are 
recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with 
changes in the fair value being recognised in the consolidated 
income statement unless the instrument satisfies the hedge 
accounting rules under IFRS and the Group chooses to  
designate the derivative financial instrument as a hedge. 
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial 
and structured manner. However, the strict hedging requirements  
of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions 
not qualifying for hedge accounting. As a result, and as permitted 
under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or  
fair value hedge accounting for its derivative financial instruments. 
However, the Group does apply net investment hedging, 
designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the  
net investment in the Group’s foreign operations, as permitted by 
IAS 39, in order to minimise income statement volatility.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial 
instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings from 
adjusted net finance costs. Fair value gains and losses on the 
interest element of derivative financial instruments are excluded  
as they will reverse over time or are matched in future periods  
by interest charges. Fair value gains and losses on the currency 
element of derivative financial instruments and exchange gains  
and losses on borrowings are excluded as the relevant foreign 
exchange gains and losses on the commercially hedged item are 
accumulated as a separate component of other comprehensive 
income in accordance with the Group’s policy on foreign currency.
Restructuring Costs
Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses 
and in major rationalisation and optimisation initiatives together with 
their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings 
measures. These costs include the impairment of property, plant 
and equipment which are surplus to requirements due to 
restructuring activity.
Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost
The net interest on defined benefit assets or liabilities, together with 
the unwind of discount on redundancy, social plans and other long 
term provisions are reported within net finance costs. These items 
together with their related tax effects are excluded from our 
adjusted earnings measures.
Tax Matters
Significant one-off tax charges or credits arising from the resolution 
of prior year tax matters (outside of changes in estimates in the 
normal course of business) are excluded from our adjusted tax 
charge to aid comparability and understanding of the Group’s 
performance. The recognition and utilisation of deferred tax assets 
relating to losses not historically generated as a result of the 
underlying business performance are excluded on the same basis. 
Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management
Net Revenue
Net revenue comprises the Tobacco business revenue less 
associated duty and similar items less revenue from the sale  
of peripheral and non-tobacco-related products. Management 
considers this an important measure in assessing the performance 
of Tobacco operations. 
Distribution Fees
Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue  
less the cost of distributed products. Management considers  
this an important measure in assessing the performance of 
Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using  
adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial  
cash flow hedges.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
New Accounting Standards and Interpretations
The following standards became effective for the current reporting period:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
Only the application of IFRS 11 had a material effect on the net assets or results of the Group. The impact on the Group’s results and net 
assets is as follows:
Income Statement Year ended 30 September 2014
£ million
Previously 
reported Adjustment Restated
Revenue 26,625 (165) 26,460 
Duty and similar items (12,928) – (12,928)
Other cost of sales (8,422) 71 (8,351)
Cost of sales (21,350) 71 (21,279)
Gross profit 5,275 (94) 5,181 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs (1,946) 17 (1,929)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (644) – (644)
Other expenses (621) 32 (589)
Administrative and other expenses (1,265) 32 (1,233)
Operating profit 2,064 (45) 2,019 
Investment income 517 (1) 516 
Finance costs (1,061) 2 (1,059)
Net finance costs (544) 1 (543)
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method – 49 49 
Profit before taxation 1,520 5 1,525 
Taxation (69) (11) (80)
Profit for the year 1,451 (6) 1,445 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,422 – 1,422 
Non-controlling interests 29 (6) 23 
Balance Sheet At 30 September 2014 At 30 September 2013
£ million
Previously 
reported Adjustment Restated
Previously 
reported Adjustment Restated
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15,859 (525) 15,334 17,382 (527) 16,855 
Investments accounted for using the equity method – 561 561 – 546 546 
Other non-current assets 2,844 (31) 2,813 2,652 (33) 2,619 
Current assets 7,306 (123) 7,183 8,388 (140) 8,248 
Total assets 26,009 (118) 25,891 28,422 (154) 28,268 
Current liabilities (7,813) 78 (7,735) (11,082) 98 (10,984)
Non-current liabilities (12,719) 26 (12,693) (11,688) 43 (11,645)
Total liabilities (20,532) 104 (20,428) (22,770) 141 (22,629)
Net assets 5,477 (14) 5,463 5,652 (13) 5,639 
Equity
Share capital 104 – 104 107 – 107 
Share premium and capital redemption 5,836 – 5,836 5,833 – 5,833 
Retained earnings (756) – (756) (791) – (791)
Exchange translation reserve (119) – (119) 447 – 447 
Non-controlling interests 412 (14) 398 56 (13) 43 
Total equity 5,477 (14) 5,463 5,652 (13) 5,639 
Other New Standards
A number of new standards and interpretations issued, but not yet effective, have not been applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements. Management has yet to fully assess the impact of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers which are both effective for the Group for its 2019 financial statements.
There are no other standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material effect on the Group’s  
net assets or results. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 84
2 Critical Accounting Estimates 
and Judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the  
future. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated  
based on historical experience, and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates 
and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the current financial year  
are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings and Disputes
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments 
in the legal proceedings at each balance sheet date, considering 
the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment; the legal 
processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in 
which the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought; the 
progress of the case (including progress after the date of the 
financial statements but before those statements are issued); the 
opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisors; experience  
of similar cases; and any decision of the Group’s management  
as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Group’s assessments at any time do not 
reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any 
claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, 
with a favourable or adverse impact upon the Group’s operating 
profit, financial position and liquidity.
A summary of significant legal cases in which the Group is  
currently involved is disclosed in note 28. 
Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group allocates the purchase price of acquired businesses  
to their identifiable tangible and intangible assets. For major 
acquisitions we engage external consultants to assist in the 
valuation of identifiable intangible assets. The valuation process  
is based on discounted forecast cash flows and is dependent  
on assumptions about cash flows, economic factors and  
business strategy.
On acquisition intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
are valued at fair value – intangible assets using the income  
method and property, plant and equipment using assessments  
of independent valuers. Goodwill represents the excess of value 
transferred to the seller in return for control of the acquired 
business together with the fair value of any previously held equity 
interest in that business over the Group’s share of the fair value  
of the identifiable net assets.
Intangible assets (other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette 
trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks) and property, 
plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful 
lives which are based on management’s estimates of the period 
over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically 
reviewed for continued appropriateness. Changes to the estimates 
used can result in significant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of intangible assets  
and property, plant and equipment subject to amortisation or 
depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances  
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived 
assets are subject to impairment review. The Group’s management 
undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Factors considered important that could 
trigger an impairment review of intangible assets and/or property, 
plant and equipment include the following:
 – significant underperformance relative to historical or projected 
future operating results; 
 – significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired 
assets or the strategy for the overall business; and 
 – significant negative industry or economic trends. 
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to  
the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application 
of the Group’s accounting estimates in relation to intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment affect the amounts reported in 
the financial statements, especially the estimates of the expected 
useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets.  
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions 
were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, 
it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the 
Group’s financial statements. Current and future levels of volatility 
and uncertainty over economic conditions are important factors  
in assessing the reasonableness of these estimates, assumptions 
and judgements. 
See notes 11 and 12 to these financial statements.
Income Taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and 
significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
tax. There are many transactions and calculations for which the 
ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises 
provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes that are likely  
to become due. Where the final tax outcome is different from the 
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact 
the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period  
in which such determination is made.
Provisions
The Group holds provisions where appropriate in respect of 
estimated future economic outflows, principally for restructuring 
activity, which arise due to past events. Estimates are based on 
management judgement and information available at the balance 
sheet date. Actual outflows may not occur as anticipated, and 
estimates may prove to be incorrect, leading to further charges  
or releases of provisions as circumstances dictate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
3 Segment Information
Imperial Tobacco comprises two distinct businesses – Tobacco and Logistics. The Tobacco business comprises the manufacture, 
marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products, including sales to (but not by) the Logistics business. The Logistics business 
comprises the distribution of tobacco products for tobacco product manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range  
of non-tobacco products and services. The Logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated 
equally, and consequently transactions between the Tobacco and Logistics businesses are undertaken on an arm’s length basis reflecting 
market prices for comparable goods and services.
The Tobacco business is managed based on the strategic role of groups of markets rather than their geographic proximity, with divisions 
focused on prioritising growth or returns. Returns Markets are typically mature markets where we have relatively large market shares  
and our objective is to maximise returns over the long term by growing profits while actively managing market share. Growth Markets  
are mainly large profit or volume pools where we typically have market shares below 15 per cent and where our total tobacco approach 
provides many opportunities for share and profit growth both now and in the future. Following the 2015 acquisition, the USA has become 
a significant market and is therefore disclosed separately.
The function of Chief Operating Decision Maker (defined in IFRS 8), which is to review performance and allocate resources, is performed 
by the Board and the Chief Executive, who are regularly provided with information on our segments. This information is used as the  
basis of the segment revenue and profit disclosures provided below. The main profit measure used by the Board and the Chief Executive 
is adjusted operating profit. Segment balance sheet information is not provided to the Board or the Chief Executive. Our reportable 
segments are Returns Markets North, Returns Markets South, Growth Markets (which includes our Cuban joint ventures and Fontem 
Ventures), USA and Logistics. Prevailing market characteristics such as maturity, excise structure and the breadth of the distribution 
networks determine the allocation of Returns Markets between Returns Markets North and Returns Markets South. 
The main tobacco business markets in each of the reportable segments are:
Returns Markets North – Australia, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, Poland, United Kingdom;
Returns Markets South – France, Spain and our African markets including Algeria, Ivory Coast, Morocco;
Growth Markets – Iraq, Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan;
USA.
Tobacco 
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Revenue 19,011 19,501 
Net revenue 6,251 6,421 
Operating profit 1,910 1,925 
Adjusted operating profit 2,895 2,805 
Adjusted operating margin % 46.3 43.7 
Logistics
£ million unless otherwise indicated 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Revenue 7,025 7,774 
Distribution fees 749 838 
Operating profit 74 84 
Adjusted operating profit 154 166 
Adjusted distribution margin % 20.6 19.8 
Revenue
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million
Total  
revenue 
External 
revenue 
Total  
revenue 
External  
revenue 
Tobacco
Returns Markets North 12,332 12,303 12,939 12,915 
Returns Markets South 2,245 1,576 2,497 1,753 
Growth Markets 3,019 2,970 3,192 3,145 
USA 1,415 1,415 873 873 
Total Tobacco 19,011 18,264 19,501 18,686 
Logistics 7,025 7,025 7,774 7,774 
Eliminations (747) – (815) – 
Total Group 25,289 25,289 26,460 26,460  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 86
3 Segment Information continued
Tobacco net revenue
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Returns Markets North 2,649 2,801 
Returns Markets South 1,446 1,600 
Growth Markets 1,449 1,513 
USA 707 507 
Total Tobacco 6,251 6,421 
Tobacco net revenue excludes revenue from the sale of peripheral and non-tobacco-related products of £175 million (2014: £152 million). 
Adjusted operating profit and reconciliation to profit before tax
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Tobacco
Returns Markets North 1,475 1,511 
Returns Markets South 636 724 
Growth Markets 409 334 
USA 375 236 
Total Tobacco 2,895 2,805 
Logistics 154 166 
Eliminations 4 10 
Adjusted operating profit 3,053 2,981 
Acquisition costs – Tobacco (40) (13)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Tobacco (617) (562)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – Logistics (80) (82)
Restructuring costs – Tobacco (328) (305)
Operating profit 1,988 2,019 
Net finance costs (261) (543)
Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 29 49 
Profit before tax 1,756 1,525 
Other information
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million
Additions  
to property, 
plant and 
equipment 
Depreciation 
and software 
amortisation 
Additions  
to property,  
plant and 
equipment 
Depreciation  
and software 
amortisation 
Tobacco
Returns Markets North 93 61 100 69 
Returns Markets South 35 31 54 41 
Growth Markets 32 31 73 34 
USA 20 13 12 8 
Total Tobacco 180 136 239 152 
Logistics 14 29 16 31 
Total Group 194 165 255 183 
Additions to property, plant and equipment exclude those obtained as part of acquisitions (see note 12).
Additional geographic analysis
External revenue and non-current assets are presented for the UK and for individually significant countries. The Group’s products are sold 
in over 160 countries.
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million
External 
revenue 
Non-current 
assets 
External  
revenue 
Non-current 
assets 
UK 4,498 119 4,750 163 
Germany 3,408 3,123 4,003 3,350 
France 3,300 2,597 3,661 2,857 
USA 1,536 7,308 1,024 2,727 
Other 12,547 7,909 13,022 8,652 
Total Group 25,289 21,056 26,460 17,749 
Non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments accounted for using the equity method.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
4 Profit Before Taxation
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Raw materials and consumables used 1,012 1,265 
Changes in inventories of finished goods 6,276 6,938 
Operating lease charges 52 56 
Net foreign exchange gains (122) (110)
Write down of inventories 29 26 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) 6 
Impairment of trade receivables 3 2 
Analysis of fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates
£ million 2015 2014
Audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.9 1.0 
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 3.6 3.7 
Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.1 
4.7 4.8 
Tax advisory services 1.0 0.7 
Tax compliance services 0.1 0.2 
Other services 3.0 2.1 
8.8 7.8 
5 Restructuring Costs 
£ million 2015 2014
Employment related 100 149 
Asset impairments 113 71 
Other charges 115 85 
328 305 
The charge for the year of £328 million (2014: £305 million) relates mainly to our cost optimisation programme announced in 2013  
(£159 million) and integration costs relating to the businesses acquired in the year (£139 million). The balance of £30 million relates 
primarily to the closure of our UK vending operation and the restructuring of our Chinese operations. 
The cost optimisation programme is expected to have a cash implementation cost in the region of £600 million and generate savings of 
£300 million by 2018. In 2015 the cash cost of the programme was £169 million (2014: £81 million) bringing the cumulative net cash cost 
of the programme to £340 million. 
The total restructuring cash flow in the year ended 30 September 2015 was £256 million (2014: £120 million).
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6 Directors and Employees
Employment costs
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Wages and salaries 811 889 
Social security costs 161 175 
Pension costs (note 22) 75 (21)
Share-based payments (note 25) 25 22 
1,072 1,065 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions requiring 
disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report. These disclosures form part of the financial statements. 
Number of people employed by the Group during the year
2015 2014 (Restated)
1
At 30 
September Average 
At 30  
September Average 
Tobacco 30,500 29,300 28,800 29,400 
Logistics 5,900 5,800 5,900 5,900 
36,400 35,100 34,700 35,300 
Number of people employed by the Group by location during the year
2015 2014 (Restated)
1
At 30 
September Average
At 30  
September Average
European Union 16,500 16,600 16,700 16,800 
Americas 9,800 8,300 7,600 7,800 
Rest of the World 10,100 10,200 10,400 10,700 
36,400 35,100 34,700 35,300 
1 2014 employee numbers have been restated to include all employees (previously just included those who were operative), ie including those on long term sick, 
maternity leave, unpaid leave and early retirement plans. 
7  Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs
Reconciliation from reported net finance costs to adjusted net finance costs
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Reported net finance costs 261 543 
Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 691 271 
Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments (578) (358)
Exchange gains on financing activities 113 99 
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments 226 12 
Interest income on net defined benefit assets 138 138 
Interest cost on net defined benefit liabilities (157) (174)
Unwind of discount on redundancy and other long-term provisions (1) (4)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost (20) (40)
Adjusted net finance costs 467 515 
Comprising:
Interest on bank deposits (6) (9)
Interest on bank and other loans 473 524 
Adjusted net finance costs 467 515  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
8 Taxation
Analysis of charge in the year
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Current tax
UK corporation tax 36 7 
Overseas taxation 449 405 
Total current tax 485 412 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (452) (332)
Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 33 80 
Reconciliation from reported taxation to adjusted taxation
The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported profit before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure of 
earnings disclosed in note 10.
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Reported taxation 33 80 
Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 149 281 
Tax on net fair value and exchange movement on financial instruments (11) 13 
Tax on post-employment benefits net financing cost 6 12 
Tax on restructuring costs 91 84 
Tax on unrecognised losses 273 51 
Adjusted tax charge 541 521 
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the average of the enacted UK 
corporation tax rates for the year of 20.5 per cent (2014: 22.0 per cent) as follows:
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Profit before tax 1,756 1,525 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate 360 335 
Tax effects of:
Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings (66) (103)
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances (310) (260)
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances arising from changes in tax rates (13) 64 
Permanent differences 68 61 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (17)
Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 33 80 
Movement on current tax account
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
At 1 October (32) (65)
Charged to the consolidated income statement (485) (412)
Charged to equity (3) (3)
Cash paid 408 451 
Other movements 1 (3)
At 30 September (111) (32)
Analysed as:
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Assets 56 96 
Liabilities (167) (128)
(111) (32) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
9 Dividends
Distributions to ordinary equity holders
£ million 2015 2014 2013
Paid interim of 42.8p per share (2014: 38.8p, 2013: 35.2p)
 – Paid August 2013 – – 341 
 – Paid August 2014 – 370 – 
 – Paid June 2015 204 – – 
 – Paid September 2015 204 – – 
Interim dividend paid 408 370 341 
Proposed interim of 49.1p per share (2014: nil, 2013: nil)
 – To be paid December 2015 468 – – 
Interim dividend proposed 468 – – 
Proposed final of 49.1p per share (2014: 89.3p, 2013: 81.2p)
 – Paid February 2014 – – 779 
 – Paid February 2015 – 851 – 
 – To be paid March 2016 468 – – 
Final dividend 468 851 779 
Total ordinary share dividends of 141.0p per share (2014: 128.1p, 2013: 116.4p) 1,344 1,221 1,120 
The third interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 49.1 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend of £468 
million, which will be paid in December 2015.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 49.1 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend payment  
of £468 million in March 2016 based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2015, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2015 will be £1,344 million (2014: £1,221 million). The dividend paid during 
2015 is £1,259 million (2014: £1,149 million).
10 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent and the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Group’s employee share schemes and shares purchased by 
the Company and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the weighted average 
number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised. No instruments have been 
excluded from the calculation for any period on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
£ million 2015 2014
Earnings: basic and diluted – attributable to owners of the parent Company 1,691 1,422 
Millions of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
Shares for basic earnings per share 953.4 957.4 
Potentially dilutive share options 2.5 2.5 
Shares for diluted earnings per share 955.9 959.9 
Pence
Basic earnings per share 177.4 148.5 
Diluted earnings per share 176.9 148.1 
Reconciliation from reported to adjusted earnings and earnings per share 
2015 2014
£ million unless otherwise indicated
Earnings  
per share 
(pence) Earnings
Earnings  
per share  
(pence) Earnings
Reported basic 177.4 1,691 148.5 1,422 
Acquisition costs 4.2 40 1.4 13 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 57.5 548 35.8 343 
Net fair value and exchange gains on financial instruments (22.7) (215) (2.5) (25)
Post-employment benefits net financing cost 1.5 14 2.8 28 
Restructuring costs 24.9 237 23.1 221 
Tax on unrecognised losses (28.6) (273) (5.3) (51)
Adjustments above attributable to non-controlling interests (1.7) (16) (0.4) (4)
Adjusted 212.5 2,026 203.4 1,947 
Adjusted diluted 211.9 2,026 202.8 1,947  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
11 Intangible Assets
2015
£ million Goodwill 
Intellectual 
property 
Supply 
agreements Software Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 11,675 6,757 1,239 202 19,873 
Additions – 16 – 44 60 
Acquisitions (see note 29) 381 4,053 – 8 4,442 
Exchange movements (358) (154) (60) (10) (582)
At 30 September 2015 11,698 10,672 1,179 244 23,793 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 1,386 2,432 597 124 4,539 
Amortisation charge for the year – 603 94 23 720 
Impairment charge for the year – 19 – – 19 
Exchange movements (68) (71) (29) (7) (175)
Accumulated amortisation – 2,609 662 140 3,411 
Accumulated impairment 1,318 374 – – 1,692 
At 30 September 2015 1,318 2,983 662 140 5,103 
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 10,380 7,689 517 104 18,690 
2014 (Restated)
£ million Goodwill 
Intellectual 
property 
Supply 
agreements Software Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2013 12,416 7,094 1,330 175 21,015 
Additions – 63 – 37 100 
Reclassifications – – – 6 6 
Disposals – – – (4) (4)
Exchange movements (741) (400) (91) (12) (1,244)
At 30 September 2014 11,675 6,757 1,239 202 19,873 
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2013 1,489 2,025 535 111 4,160 
Amortisation charge for the year – 540 104 24 668 
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Exchange movements (103) (133) (42) (10) (288)
Accumulated amortisation – 2,077 597 124 2,798 
Accumulated impairment 1,386 355 – – 1,741 
At 30 September 2014 1,386 2,432 597 124 4,539 
Net book value
At 30 September 2014 10,289 4,325 642 78 15,334 
Intellectual property mainly comprises brands acquired in the USA in 2015 and through the purchases of Altadis in 2008 and 
Commonwealth Brands in 2007.
Supply agreements include Logistics customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba. All were acquired under  
the purchase of Altadis.
In November 2013, the Group acquired e-vapour intellectual property rights from the Hong Kong based company Dragonite for  
£46 million.
Intangible amortisation and impairment are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation and impairment in respect of intangible assets other than software are treated as reconciling items between reported 
operating profit and adjusted operating profit.  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
11 Intangible Assets continued
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment review
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which  
the goodwill arose. For the Tobacco business CGUs are based on the markets where the business operates and are grouped in line with 
the divisional structure in operation during the year. The groupings represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives is set out below.
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million Goodwill
Intangible 
assets with 
indefinite lives Goodwill
Intangible  
assets with 
indefinite lives
Returns Markets North 3,745 168 3,948 177 
Returns Markets South 1,415 88 1,484 93 
Growth 1,700 253 1,760 252 
USA 2,071 – 1,572 – 
Tobacco 8,931 509 8,764 522 
Logistics 1,449 – 1,525 – 
10,380 509 10,289 522 
Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 (all CGU groupings), Commonwealth Brands in 2007 (USA), 
Altadis in 2008 (all CGU groupings) and ITG Brands in 2015 (USA).
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications 
that impairment may have arisen. The value of a CGU, or group of CGUs as appropriate, is based on value-in-use calculations. These 
calculations use cash flow projections derived from three year financial plans which are approved by the Board annually and are based on 
detailed bottom-up market-by-market forecasts of projected sales volumes for each product line. These forecasts reflect, on an individual 
market basis, numerous assumptions and estimates regarding anticipated changes in market size, prices and duty regimes, consumer 
uptrading and downtrading, consumer preferences and other changes in product mix, based on long-term market trends, market data, 
anticipated regulatory developments, and management experience and expectations. We consider that pricing, market size, market 
shares and cost inflation are the key assumptions used in our plans.
Growth rates and discount rates used
The compound annual growth rates implicit in these value-in-use calculations are shown below.
2015
%
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Initial growth 
rate
Long-term 
growth rate
Returns Markets North 9.0 2.6 1.8 
Returns Markets South 11.3 (0.8) 1.8 
Growth Markets 8.9-16.7 5.4-13.5 1.8-4.0
USA 10.0 3.5 2.5 
Logistics 9.6 8.0 1.8 
Cash flows from the three year plan period are extrapolated out to year five using the growth rate implicit in the three year plan, shown in 
the table above as the initial growth rate. Estimated long-term weighted average compound annual growth rates of between 1.8 per cent 
and 4.0 per cent per annum are used beyond year five. 
Long-term growth rates are based on management’s long-term expectations, taking account of industry specific factors such as the 
nature of our products, the role of excise in government fiscal policy, and relatively stable and predictable long-term macro trends in the 
tobacco industry. 
Discount rates used are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk profiles of the CGUs.
Our impairment projections are prepared under the basis set out in IAS 36 which can differ from our internal plans.
Growth markets
Within our Growth Markets reporting segment, there are a number of CGU groupings based on our operating segments, including Drive 
Growth and Other Premium Cigar.
The Drive Growth CGU grouping includes our markets in Russia, Italy and Japan. The major market in this CGU grouping is Russia.  
Our impairment test for this CGU grouping indicated headroom of £69 million, and assumed a compound annual growth rate for Russia 
over the first five years of 11.4 per cent. The test also assumed a discount rate for the Russian market of 16.7 per cent reflecting recent 
political uncertainty and a long-term growth rate of 3.0 per cent. A reduction of 12 per cent in overall forecast cash flows, or an increase in 
the discount rate by 190 basis points, or a reduction in the long-term growth rate of 310 basis points, or a further 14 per cent devaluation 
of the Russian rouble would cause the carrying value to equal the recoverable amount.
The impairment test for our Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping that includes our non-Cuban Premium Cigar business indicated 
headroom of £17 million. A reduction in overall forecast cash flows of 3 per cent, or an increase in the discount rate by 20 basis points 
from 10.0 per cent, or a reduction in the short-term growth rate of 70 basis points from 5.4 per cent, or a reduction in the long-term 
growth rate of 30 basis points from 2.2 per cent would cause the carrying value to equal the recoverable amount.
Other CGU groupings
For the rest of the Group, any reasonable movement in the assumptions used in the impairment tests would not result in an impairment. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
12 Property, Plant and Equipment
2015
£ million Property 
Plant and 
equipment 
Fixtures and 
motor vehicles Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 985 1,865 407 3,257 
Additions 13 140 41 194 
Acquisitions (see note 29) 34 58 14 106 
Disposals (77) (80) (69) (226)
Reclassifications 12 (11) (8) (7)
Exchange movements (41) (156) (19) (216)
At 30 September 2015 926 1,816 366 3,108 
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 214 923 266 1,403 
Depreciation charge for the year 11 98 33 142 
Impairment – 58 1 59 
Disposals (42) (64) (63) (169)
Reclassifications – 3 (7) (4)
Exchange movements (14) (63) (14) (91)
At 30 September 2015 169 955 216 1,340 
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 757 861 150 1,768 
2014 (Restated)
£ million Property 
Plant and 
equipment 
Fixtures and 
motor vehicles Total 
Cost
At 1 October 2013 1,140 1,851 437 3,428 
Additions 38 175 42 255 
Disposals (129) (44) (17) (190)
Reclassifications 1 16 (26) (9)
Exchange movements (65) (133) (29) (227)
At 30 September 2014 985 1,865 407 3,257
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 October 2013 254 851 254 1,359 
Depreciation charge for the year 17 105 37 159 
Impairment 30 54 8 92 
Disposals (70) (39) (16) (125)
Reclassifications 1 (2) (1) (2)
Exchange movements (18) (46) (16) (80)
At 30 September 2014 214 923 266 1,403 
Net book value
At 30 September 2014 771 942 141 1,854 
The impairment charges in 2015 and 2014 were mainly due to the proposed closure of our Nottingham and Nantes manufacturing 
facilities, as announced in 2014. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
13 Joint Ventures
The principal joint ventures are Corporación Habanos SA, Cuba and Altabana SL, Spain. Summarised financial information for the Group’s 
share of joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, is shown below:
2015
£ million
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total 
Revenue 46 114 31 191 
Profit after taxation 14 16 4 34 
Non-current assets 181 7 10 198 
Current assets 35 69 36 140 
Total assets 216 76 46 338 
Current liabilities (46) (24) (33) (103)
Non-current liabilities (6) (2) – (8)
Total liabilities (52) (26) (33) (111)
Net assets 164 50 13 227 
 2014
£ million
Corporación 
Habanos Altabana Others Total 
Revenue 35 106 24 165 
Profit after taxation 9 19 1 29 
Non-current assets 173 12 7 192 
Current assets 30 70 22 122 
Total assets 203 82 29 314 
Current liabilities (35) (23) (19) (77)
Non-current liabilities (5) (1) – (6)
Total liabilities (40) (24) (19) (83)
Net assets 163 58 10 231 
Transactions and balances with joint ventures
£ million 2015 2014
Sales to 59 61 
Purchases from 60 63 
Accounts receivable from 8 10 
Current loans to – 8 
Accounts payable to (7) (11)
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements came into effect for the Group from 1 October 2014. As a result of this standard the profit and loss items 
from joint ventures are shown in the consolidated income statement below net finance costs as “Share of investments accounted for  
using the equity method”. Similarly, the asset and liability amounts are classified as “Investments accounted for using the equity method”.
See note 1 for details of the impact on the reported results at 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
14 Inventories 
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Raw materials 1,028 1,000 
Work in progress 51 52 
Finished inventories 1,609 1,691 
Other inventories 154 132 
2,842 2,875 
Other inventories mainly comprise duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because  
of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year. We estimate that around £358 million  
(2014: £250 million) of leaf tobacco held within raw materials will not be utilised within a year of the balance sheet date.
15 Trade and Other Receivables
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade receivables 2,278 – 2,609 – 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (54) – (54) – 
Net trade receivables 2,224 – 2,555 – 
Other receivables 103 66 86 63 
Prepayments and accrued income 127 18 120 6 
2,454 84 2,761 69 
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows:
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Within credit terms 2,137 – 2,465 – 
Past due by less than 3 months 52 – 57 – 
Past due by more than 3 months 35 – 33 – 
Amounts that are impaired 54 – 54 – 
2,278 – 2,609 – 
16 Cash and Cash Equivalents
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Cash at bank and in hand 2,018 1,404 
Short-term deposits and other liquid assets 24 9 
2,042 1,413 
£137 million (2014: £153 million) of total cash and cash equivalents is held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer the 
funds abroad. Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a reasonable 
period of time.
17 Trade and Other Payables
2015 2014 (Restated)
£ million Current Non-current Current Non-current 
Trade payables 987 – 990 – 
Other taxes, duties and social security contributions 5,075 – 5,236 – 
Other payables 171 – 210 – 
Accruals and deferred income 562 13 521 21 
6,795 13 6,957 21  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
18 Borrowings
The Group’s borrowings are held at amortised cost. Current and non-current borrowings include interest payable of £95 million  
(2014: £1 million) and £208 million (2014: £291 million) respectively as at the balance sheet date. Interest payable on capital market 
issuances are at the fixed rates of interest outlined below and interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts are at floating rates of interest.
£ million 2015 
2014  
(Restated)
Current borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 53  108 
Capital market issuance:
European commercial paper (ECP) 359  321 
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 380  – 
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 1,165  – 
Total current borrowings 1,957  429 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans  1,479  – 
Capital market issuance:
€500m 4.0% notes due December 2015 –  394 
€1,500m 8.375% notes due February 2016 –  1,226 
£450m 5.5% notes due November 2016 471  471 
$1,250m 2.05% notes due February 2018 825  773 
€850m 4.5% notes due July 2018 634  667 
$500m 2.05% notes due July 2018 330  – 
£200m 6.25% notes due December 2018 210  210 
£500m 7.75% notes due June 2019 510  510 
€750m 5.0% notes due December 2019 576  606 
$1,250m 2.95% notes due July 2020 826  – 
€1,000m 2.25% notes due February 2021 745  785 
£1,000m 9.0% notes due February 2022 1,054  1,054 
$1,250m 3.75% notes due July 2022 827  – 
$1,000m 3.5% notes due February 2023 660  618 
£600m 8.125% notes due March 2024 626  626 
$1,500m 4.25% notes due July 2025 986  – 
€650m 3.375% notes due February 2026 488  514 
£500m 5.5% notes due September 2026 499  499 
£500m 4.875% notes due June 2032 504  509 
Total non-current borrowings 12,250  9,462 
Total borrowings  14,207  9,891 
Analysed as:
Capital market issuance 12,675  9,783 
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,532  108 
Non-current bank loans contain committed USD term loan facilities with maturities expiring between one and four years, with interest 
payable at floating rates.
In June 2015 the Group utilised $7,056 million of committed bank facilities to finance the purchase of certain US brands and assets from 
Reynolds American Inc. subsequent to its acquisition of Lorillard Inc. $4,500 million was subsequently refinanced in the US debt capital 
markets in tranches of $500 million, $1,500 million and two tranches of $1,250 million, with maturities between three and ten years.
All borrowings are unsecured and the Group has not defaulted on any borrowings during the year (2014: no defaults). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Non-current financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities as at 30 September (including net derivative 
financial liabilities detailed in note 20) is as follows:
 2015  2014 (Restated) 
£ million Borrowings
Net derivative 
financial 
liabilities/ 
(assets) Total Borrowings
Net derivative 
financial 
liabilities/  
(assets) Total
Amounts maturing:
Between one and two years 1,457 67  1,524 1,620 (47) 1,573 
Between two and five years 4,405 (127) 4,278 2,631 26 2,657 
In five years or more 6,388 (106) 6,282 5,211 61 5,272 
 12,250 (166) 12,084 9,462 40 9,502 
Fair value of borrowings
The fair value of borrowings as at 30 September 2015 is estimated to be £15,004 million (2014: £10,887 million restated). £13,472 million 
(2014: £10,779 million) relates to capital market issuance and has been determined by reference to market prices as at the balance sheet 
date. A comparison of the carrying amount and fair value of capital market issuance by currency is provided below. The fair value of all 
other borrowings is considered to equal their carrying amount.
2015 2014 
£ million
Balance sheet 
amount Fair value 
Balance sheet 
amount Fair value 
GBP 3,874 4,518  3,879  4,576 
EUR 4,347 4,493  4,513  4,826 
USD 4,454 4,461  1,391  1,377 
Total capital market issuance 12,675  13,472  9,783  10,779 
Undrawn borrowing facilities
At 30 September the Group had the following undrawn committed facilities:
£ million 2015 2014
Amounts maturing:
Between one and two years 739  3,310 
Between two and five years 2,594  3,631 
In five years or more –  927 
 3,333  7,868 
19 Financial Risk Factors
Financial risk management
Overview
In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to financial risks including market, credit and liquidity risk. This note explains the 
Group’s exposure to these risks, how they are measured and assessed, and summarises the policies and processes used to manage 
them, including those related to the management of capital.
The Group operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing external and internal funding requirements and 
financial risks in support of the Group’s strategic objectives, specifically its exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange 
and counterparty credit risk. The Group operates on a global basis and manages its capital to ensure that subsidiaries are able to operate 
as going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity.
The Group’s Treasury activities are monitored by the Group Treasury Committee (GTC), which meets regularly throughout the year and 
comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary and other senior management from Group Finance, Manufacturing and 
Group Treasury. The GTC operates in accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board and a framework (the GTC framework) 
which sets out the expectations and boundaries to assist in the effective oversight of Group Treasury activities. The Group Treasurer 
reports on a regular basis to the Board, and to the GTC on a monthly basis.
The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions and Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre, nor does it enter  
into speculative transactions. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 98
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
19 Financial Risk Factors continued
The Group’s management of market, credit and liquidity risk is as follows:
Market risk
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk other than assets held by its pension funds disclosed in note 22. The Group is 
exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be fluctuations in the price of tobacco leaf. As with other agricultural commodities,  
the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations influence tobacco plantings in those countries where 
tobacco is grown. Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that may affect crop quality or supply and so  
lead to changes in price. The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf from a number of different countries and 
counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held. Currently, these techniques reduce the expected exposure to this risk over 
the short to medium term to levels considered not material and accordingly, no sensitivity analysis has been presented.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign 
currencies, as well as the translation of cash investments, borrowings and derivatives held in non-functional currencies.
The Group’s financial results are principally exposed to fluctuations in euro and US dollar exchange rates. At 30 September 2015,  
after the effect of derivative financial instruments, approximately -2 per cent (2014: 17 per cent) of the Group’s reported net debt was 
denominated in sterling, 60 per cent in euro (2014: 76 per cent), 45 per cent in US dollars (2014: 10 per cent), and -3 per cent in other 
currencies (2014: -3 per cent).
Management of the Group’s foreign exchange transaction and translation risk is as follows.
Transaction risk
The Group’s material transaction exposures arise on costs denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of subsidiaries, 
including the purchase of tobacco leaf, which is sourced from various countries but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging 
materials which are sourced from various countries and purchased in a number of currencies. The Group’s sterling dividends to external 
shareholders are primarily sourced from foreign subsidiary earnings. Foreign currency flows are matched where possible and remaining 
foreign currency transaction exposures are not hedged.
Translation risk
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the Group seeks to match borrowings to the currency of its investments in 
overseas subsidiaries which are primarily euros and US dollars. The Group has a policy of issuing debt in the most appropriate market or 
markets at the time of raising new finance and to subsequently enter into derivative financial instruments, primarily cross-currency swaps, 
to change the currency of debt as required. Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into foreign currencies to match the Group’s 
investments in overseas subsidiaries are treated as a hedge against the net investment where appropriate.
Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis showing the impact of hypothetical changes of exchanges rates in respect of non-functional  
currency financial assets and liabilities on the Group’s Income Statement and Other Comprehensive Income.
The tables below illustrate on an indicative basis, the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates attributable to the translation of 
monetary items held by Group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies. The sensitivity analysis has been prepared 
on the basis that net debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies remain constant, and that there is no change  
to the net investment hedge designations in place at 30 September 2015. The sensitivity analysis does not reflect any change to revenue 
or non-finance costs that may result from changing exchange rates, and ignores any taxation implications and offsetting effects of 
movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
£ million
2015  
Increase in 
income
2014  
Increase in 
income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures:
10% appreciation of euro (2014: 10%) 60  251 
10% appreciation of US dollar (2014: 10%) 13  22 
10% appreciation of sterling (2014: 10%) 7  3
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause a decrease in income of £73 million, £16 million and £8 million for euro, 
US dollar and sterling exchange rates respectively (2014: £307 million, £26 million and £3 million).
Movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges in hedging the Group’s euro 
denominated assets.
£ million
2015  
Change in 
equity
2014  
Change in  
equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures:
10% appreciation of euro (2014: 10%) 751  923 
10% appreciation of US dollar (2014: 10%) 101  – 
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would result in a change in equity of -£918 million and -£124 million for euro and  
US dollar exchange rates respectively (2014: -£1,129 million and £0 million). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents. Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group  
to cash flow interest rate risk. Borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group’s financial results are primarily exposed to gains or losses arising from fluctuations in euro and US dollar interest rates.  
As at 30 September 2015, after adjusting for the effect of derivative financial instruments detailed in note 20, approximately 46 per  
cent (2014: 50 per cent) of the Group’s borrowings were at fixed rates of interest.
The Group manages the interest rate risk on its borrowings by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time  
of raising new finance with regard to currency and interest denomination and subsequently entering into derivative financial instruments, 
primarily cross-currency and interest rate swaps, to change the currency and interest rate mix to the desired position and in line with the GTC 
framework. Group Treasury monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and fair value 
movements of derivative financial instruments. The Group’s debt maturity profile is detailed in the contractual cash flows tables overleaf.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis showing the impact of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and 
liabilities on the Group’s Income Statement.
The table below illustrates on an indicative basis, the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its euro, US dollar and sterling monetary items 
which are primarily external borrowings, cash and cash equivalents. The impact in the Group’s Income Statement reflects the effect on net 
finance costs in respect of the Group’s net debt and the fixed to floating rate debt ratio prevailing at 30 September 2015, and ignores any 
taxation implications and offsetting effects of movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the net debt and derivatives portfolio remain constant and that there is no net 
impact on other comprehensive income.
The movement in interest rates is considered reasonable for the purpose of this analysis and the estimated effect assumes a lower limit of 
zero for interest rates where relevant.
£ million
2015 
Change in 
income
2014  
Change in 
income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements:
+/- 1% increase in euro interest rates (2014: 1%) 72  32 
+/- 1% increase in US dollar interest rates (2014: 1%) 53  13 
+/- 1% increase in sterling interest rates (2014: 1%) 3  12 
Credit risk
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk arising from trade receivables due from its customers, cash deposits and financial 
instruments held with external financial counterparties. The maximum aggregate credit risk to these sources was considered to be  
£5,296 million at 30 September 2015 (2014: £4,665 million restated).
Trade and other receivables
The Group has some significant concentrations of customer credit risk. In order to manage its exposure to customer credit risk, policies 
have been implemented to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and that credit support 
or guarantees are obtained where appropriate. Analysis of trade and other receivables is provided in note 15.
Financial instruments
In order to manage its credit risk to any one counterparty, the Group places cash deposits and enters into derivative financial instruments 
with a diversified group of financial institutions carrying suitable credit ratings in line with the GTC framework. Utilisation of counterparty 
credit limits is regularly monitored by Group Treasury and ISDA agreements are in place to permit the net settlement of assets and liabilities 
in certain circumstances. In very limited cases, collateral is deposited against derivative financial liabilities and supported by an ISDA Credit 
Support Annex.
The table below summarises the Group’s largest exposures to financial counterparties as at 30 September 2015. Management does not 
expect these counterparties to default on their current obligations at the balance sheet date. The impact of the Group’s own credit risk  
on the fair value of derivatives and other obligations held at fair value is not considered to be material.
2015 2014
Counterparty exposure
S&P credit 
rating 
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk 
£ million
S&P credit  
rating 
Maximum 
exposure to 
credit risk 
£ million
Highest AA- 153 A 179 
2nd highest AA- 131 A 134 
3rd highest AA- 114 A+ 129 
4th highest A 114 A 112 
5th highest A+ 112 A+ 111 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 100
19 Financial Risk Factors continued
Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, which represents the risk of having insufficient funds to meet its financing needs. To manage  
this risk the Group has a policy of actively maintaining a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities that are designed  
to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds to meet the forecast requirements of the Group over the short to medium term.  
To prevent over-reliance on individual sources of liquidity, funding is provided by a range of instruments including capital market issuance, 
bank loans and European commercial paper.
The Group borrows centrally in order to meet forecast funding requirements, and Group Treasury is in regular dialogue with subsidiaries to 
ensure their liquidity needs are met. Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital and retained earnings, loans from 
central finance companies, and in very limited cases through external local borrowings. Cash pooling processes are used to centralise 
surplus cash held by subsidiaries in order to minimise external borrowing requirements and interest costs. Group Treasury invests surplus 
cash in bank deposits and uses forward currency contracts to manage short term liquidity requirements in line with cash flow forecasts.  
As at 30 September 2015, the Group held liquid assets of £2,042 million (2014: £1,413 million restated).
The table below summarises the Group’s financial liabilities by maturity based on their remaining contractual cash flows as at  
30 September 2015. The amounts disclosed are undiscounted cash flows calculated using spot rates of exchange prevailing at the 
relevant balance sheet date. Contractual cash flows in respect of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are detailed in note 20.
2015
£ million
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual 
cash flows total <1 year
Between 1  
and 2 years
Between 2  
and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Bank loans 1,532 1,573 71 1,000 502 – 
Capital market issuance 12,675 15,897 2,374 1,022 5,061 7,440 
Trade and other payables 987 987 987 – – – 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 15,194 18,457 3,432 2,022 5,563 7,440 
2014 (Restated)
£ million
Balance sheet 
amount
Contractual  
cash flows total <1 year
Between 1  
and 2 years
Between 2  
and 5 years > 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Bank loans 108  108  108  –  –  – 
Capital market issuance 9,783  12,677  834  1,994  3,621  6,228 
Trade and other payables 990  990  990  –  –  – 
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 10,881  13,775  1,932  1,994  3,621  6,228 
Capital management
The Group defines capital as adjusted net debt and equity and manages its capital structure through an appropriate balance of debt and 
equity in order to drive an efficient financing mix for the Group. Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in 
different countries, the Group’s only externally imposed capital requirements are interest cover and gearing covenants contained within its 
external debt facilities, with which the Group was fully compliant during the current and prior periods and expects to be so going forward. 
The Group continues to target an investment grade credit rating which it monitors by reference to a number of key financial ratios. The 
framework within which the Group’s capital base is managed includes the return of capital to shareholders through an appropriate mix of 
share buybacks and dividends. In order to accelerate the pace of debt repayment associated with the purchase of certain US brands and 
assets from Reynolds American Inc. subsequent to its acquisition of Lorillard Inc. in June 2015, the Group has ceased its share buyback 
programme and no shares (2014: c£14.2 million) were repurchased during the financial year.
As at 30 September 2015 the Group was rated Baa3/negative outlook by Moody’s Investors Service Ltd, BBB/stable outlook by Standard 
& Poor’s Credit Market Services Europe Limited and BBB/negative outlook by Fitch Ratings Limited.
Hedge accounting
The Group hedges its underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner in line with the policies outlined above, 
although the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge 
accounting. As a result, and as permitted under IAS39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting  
in respect of these transactions.
The Group does apply net investment hedge accounting where appropriate, and certain permanent intragroup loans are treated as a 
reduction in investment in the Group’s foreign operations in line with IAS 21. As at 30 September 2015 the Group had designated external 
euro borrowings with a carrying value of €5,237 million (2014: €5,165 million), US dollar borrowings with a carrying value of $6,750 million 
(2014: nil), and cross-currency swaps with a notional value of €3,871 million (2014: €2,461 million) as hedges of a net investment in the 
Group’s foreign operations.
Intragroup loans with a notional value of €2,077 million (2014: €5,440 million) and US dollar loans with a notional value of $5,077 million 
(2014: nil) were treated as a reduction in investment in the Group’s foreign operations at the balance sheet date.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Fair value estimation and hierarchy
All financial assets and liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at amortised cost, other than derivative financial instruments which are 
carried at fair value. Derivative financial instruments are valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data such as 
yield curves and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date (Level 2 classification hierarchy per IFRS 7) as detailed in note 20. 
There were no changes to the valuation methods or transfers between hierarchies during the year. With the exception of capital market 
issuance, the fair value of all financial assets and financial liabilities is considered to approximate to their carrying amount as outlined in 
note 18.
Netting arrangements of financial instruments
The following tables set out the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to netting and set-off arrangements. 
Financial assets and liabilities that are subject to setoff arrangements and disclosed on a net basis in the Group’s balance sheet primarily 
relate to cash pooling arrangements and collateral in respect of derivative financial instruments. Amounts which do not meet the criteria  
for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions executed 
under ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
2015
£ million
Gross financial 
assets/ 
liabilities 
Gross financial 
assets/ 
liabilities  
set off
Net financial 
assets/ 
liabilities per 
balance sheet
Related 
amounts not 
set off in the 
balance sheet Net
Assets
Derivative financial instruments 1,016 (41) 975 (607) 368 
Cash and cash equivalents 3,281 (1,239) 2,042 – 2,042 
4,297 (1,280) 3,017 (607) 2,410 
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments (801) 41 (760) 607 (153)
Bank loans and overdrafts (1,292) 1,239 (53) – (53)
(2,093) 1,280 (813) 607 (206)
2014 (Restated)
£ million
Gross financial 
assets/ 
liabilities
Gross financial 
assets/ 
liabilities  
set off
Net financial 
assets/ 
liabilities per  
balance sheet 
Related  
amounts not  
set off in the 
balance sheet Net 
Assets
Derivative financial instruments 745 (102) 643 (451) 192 
Cash and cash equivalents 3,436 (2,023) 1,413 – 1,413 
4,181 (2,125) 2,056 (451) 1,605 
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments (793) 102 (691) 451 (240)
Bank loans and overdrafts (2,131) 2,023 (108) – (108)
(2,924) 2,125 (799) 451 (348) Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 102
20 Derivative Financial Instruments
The Group’s derivative financial instruments are held at fair value, which was estimated to be a £215 million net asset at 30 September 
2015 (2014: £48 million net liability). Fair values are determined based on observable market data such as yield curves and foreign 
exchange rates to calculate the present value of future cash flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date. The 
classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is provided in note 19.
2015 2014
£ million Assets  Liabilities  Net Fair Value Assets Liabilities Net Fair Value
Current derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 55 (20) 35  27 (41) (14)
Forward foreign currency contracts 13 (5) 8  7 (7) – 
Cross-currency swaps 6 – 6  4 –  4 
Total current derivatives 74 (25) 49  38 (48) (10)
Collateral¹ – – – – 2  2 
74 (25) 49  38 (46) (8)
Non-current derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 666 (753) (87) 521 (692) (171)
Cross-currency swaps 235 (23) 212  84 (53) 31 
Total non-current derivatives 901 (776) 125  605 (745) (140)
Collateral¹ – 41 41 – 100 100 
901 (735) 166  605 (645) (40)
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments 975 (760) 215  643 (691) (48)
Analysed as:
Interest rate swaps 721 (773) (52) 548 (733) (185)
Forward foreign currency contracts 13 (5) 8  7 (7) – 
Cross-currency swaps 241 (23) 218  88 (53) 35 
Collateral¹ – 41 41 – 102 102 
Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments 975 (760) 215  643 (691) (48)
1 Collateral deposited against derivative financial liabilities under the terms and conditions of an ISDA Credit Support Annex.
Maturity of obligations under derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments have been classified as current or non-current on an undiscounted contractual basis based on spot rates 
as at the balance sheet date. Some of the Group’s derivative financial instruments contain early termination options. For the purposes  
of the above and following analysis, maturity dates have been based on the likelihood of an option being exercised with consideration  
to counterparty expectations and market conditions prevailing as at 30 September 2015. Any collateral transferred to counterparties in 
respect of derivative financial liabilities has been classified consistently with the related underlying derivative.
The table below summarises the Group’s derivative financial instruments by maturity based on their remaining contractual cash flows as  
at 30 September 2015. The amounts disclosed are the undiscounted cash flows calculated using spot rates of exchange prevailing at the 
relevant balance sheet date. Contractual cash flows in respect of the Group’s non-derivative financial instruments are detailed in note 19.
2015
£ million
Balance  
sheet  
amount
Contractual 
cash flows  
total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years >5 years
Net settled derivatives (20) (183) 18 (7) (13) (181)
Gross settled derivatives 235 
 – receipts 4,660 921 528 752 2,459 
 – payments (5,405) (976) (550) (974) (2,905)
215 (928) (37) (29) (235) (627)
2014
£ million
Balance  
sheet  
amount
Contractual  
cash flows  
total <1 year
Between  
1 and 2 years
Between  
2 and 5 years >5 years
Net settled derivatives (149) 271 51 24 25 171 
Gross settled derivatives 101 
 – receipts 4,036 1,194 48 812 1,982 
 – payments (4,507) (1,222) (76) (866) (2,343)
(48) (200) 23 (4) (29) (190)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Derivatives as hedging instruments
As outlined in note 19, the Group hedges its underlying interest rate and foreign currency translation exposures in an efficient, commercial 
and structured manner, primarily using interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. Forward currency contracts are used to manage 
the Group’s short term liquidity requirements in line with cash flow forecasts as appropriate. Given that the Group does not apply cash flow 
or fair value hedge accounting, as permitted under IAS 39, fair value gains and losses attributable to derivative financial instruments are 
recognised in net finance costs unless they are designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, in which case they are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate risk on the Group’s borrowings is managed by issuing debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time  
of raising new finance with regard to currency and interest denomination, and then using derivative financial instruments, primarily interest 
rate swaps, to change the debt into the appropriate proportions of fixed and floating interest rates where necessary. Interest rate swaps 
are also transacted to manage the Group’s interest rate risk over the short, medium and long term in accordance with the GTC framework. 
Fair value movements are recognised in net finance costs in the relevant reporting period.
As at 30 September 2015, the notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding that were entered into to change fixed rate borrowings 
into floating rates of interest at the time of raising new finance were £11,667 million equivalent (2014: £9,141 million equivalent) with a fair 
value of £721 million asset (2014: £524 million asset). The fixed interest rates vary from 2.0 per cent to 8.7 per cent (2014: 2.0 per cent to 
8.7 per cent), and the floating rates are EURIBOR, LIBOR and US LIBOR.
The notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at the balance sheet date that were entered into to change the Group’s debt  
into the appropriate proportion of fixed and floating rates to manage the Group’s interest rate risk over the short, medium and long term  
in accordance with the GTC framework were £10,692 million equivalent (2014: £7,942 million equivalent) with a fair value of £741 million 
liability (2014: £672 million liability). The fixed interest rates vary from 0.8 per cent to 5.2 per cent (2014: 0.8 per cent to 5.2 per cent), and 
the floating rates are EURIBOR, LIBOR and US LIBOR. This includes forward starting interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of 
£4,990 million equivalent (2014: £2,729 million equivalent) with tenors extending between three and 12 years, starting between October 
2015 and October 2020.
Cross-currency swaps
The Group enters into cross-currency swaps to change the currency of debt into the appropriate currency with consideration to the 
underlying assets of the Group as appropriate. Fair value movements are recognised in net finance costs in the relevant reporting period 
unless they are designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive 
income.
As at 30 September 2015, the notional amount of cross-currency swaps entered into to convert issued fixed rate debt into the desired 
currency at floating rates of interest was £650 million (2014: £650 million) and the fair value of these swaps was £5 million net liability 
(2014: £30 million net liability).
The notional amount of cross-currency swaps entered into to convert floating rate sterling debt into the desired currency at floating rates  
of interest at the balance sheet date was £3,100 million (2014: £2,000 million) and the fair value of these swaps was £232 million net asset 
(2014: £71 million net asset).
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
As at 30 September 2015 cross-currency swaps with a notional amount of €3,871 million (2014: €2,461 million) were designated  
as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. During the year, foreign exchange translation gains amounting to £202 million  
(2014: £153 million gains) were recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cross-currency swaps that had been designated 
as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations.
Forward foreign currency contracts
The Group enters into forward currency contracts to manage short term liquidity requirements in line with cash flow forecasts. As at  
30 September 2015 the notional amount of these contracts was £867 million equivalent (2014: £1,146 million equivalent) and the fair  
value of these contracts was a net asset of £8 million (2014: nil). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 104
21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following amounts, determined after appropriate 
offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets
2015
£ million
Accelerated 
depreciation and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2014 1 101 1 138 241 
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 42 (3) (1) 268 306 
Charged to other comprehensive income – (7) – – (7)
Transfers 43 (41) – (20) (18)
Other movements – – – 4 4 
Exchange movements 18 (1) – (10) 7 
At 30 September 2015 104 49 – 380 533 
2014
£ million
Accelerated 
depreciation and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits
Fair value 
movements
Other  
temporary 
differences Total
At 1 October 2013 (52) 156 2 47 153 
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 7 (12) (1) 94 88 
Transfers 20 (48) – 5 (23)
Exchange movements 26 5 – (8) 23 
At 30 September 2014 1 101 1 138 241 
Deferred tax liabilities
2015
£ million
Accelerated 
depreciation and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits 
Fair value 
movements 
Other 
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2014 (1,600) 52 – 118 (1,430)
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 97 (4) – 53 146 
Credited to other comprehensive income – 12 – – 12 
Acquisitions – 26 – 10 36 
Transfers 122 40 – (144) 18 
Exchange movements 47 (1) – 2 48 
At 30 September 2015 (1,334) 125 – 39 (1,170)
2014 (Restated)
£ million
Accelerated 
depreciation and 
amortisation
Retirement 
benefits 
Fair value 
movements 
Other  
temporary 
differences Total 
At 1 October 2013 (1,967) 58 – 130 (1,779)
Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 319 (33) – (42) 244 
Charged to other comprehensive income – (1) – – (1)
Transfers (54) 32 – 47 25 
Exchange movements 102 (4) – (17) 81 
At 30 September 2014 (1,600) 52 – 118 (1,430)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Deferred tax assets 188 59 
Deferred tax liabilities (227) (233)
(39) (174)
Deferred tax expected to be recovered in more than 12 months
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Deferred tax assets 345 182 
Deferred tax liabilities (943) (1,197)
(598) (1,015)
Within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £331 million (2014: £92 million) are recognised for tax losses carried forward  
to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
We have reviewed the recoverablility of deferred tax assets in overseas territories in the light of forecast business performance and  
the impact of the acquisition completed in the year. Consequently we have increased deferred tax assets of £308 million relating to  
tax losses (2014: £90 million increase) previously not recognised on the basis that it is more likely than not that these are recoverable.
As at the balance sheet date, deferred tax assets of £78 million (2014: £373 million) have not been recognised due to the potential 
uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions. Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets, £29 million 
losses are expected to expire in 2016, £15 million (2014: £11 million) are expected to expire within five years and £26 million (2014:  
£27 million) are expected to expire between 2022 and 2026.
Also within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of £2 million (2014: £10 million) are recognised for tax credits carried forward 
to the extent that the realisation of the tax related benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred tax assets of £143 million 
(2014: £229 million) have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the credits. These unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are expected to expire between 2021 and 2027.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities 
have not been recognised is £5 billion (2014: £7 billion). A provision of £50 million (2014: £4 million) has been made for taxation expected 
to arise on a planned future remittance of earnings totalling £1.7 billion from various subsidiaries. No liability has been recognised in 
respect of other differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and  
it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The rate of UK corporation tax was reduced by 1 per cent from 21 per cent to 20 per cent from 1 April 2015. No further reductions had 
been enacted at the balance sheet date. However, as announced in the Chancellor’s Budget on 8 July 2015 the UK corporation tax rate  
is expected to reduce to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent from 1 April 2020. The effect of these reductions, if applied to 
the deferred tax balance at 30 September 2015 would be to reduce the deferred tax asset by £3 million.
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined contribution 
schemes. The Group’s three principal schemes are defined benefit schemes and are operated by Imperial Tobacco Limited in the UK, 
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany and ITG Brands Hourly scheme in the US; these schemes represent 65 per cent,  
10 per cent and 7 per cent of the Group’s total retirement benefit obligations and 53 per cent, 19 per cent and 4 per cent of the current 
service cost respectively.
Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund
The UK scheme – the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or ITPF – is a voluntary final salary pension scheme with a normal retirement age  
of 60 for most members. The ITPF is offered to employees who joined the company before 1 October 2010 and has a weighted average 
maturity of 16 years. The population comprises 62 per cent in respect of pensioners, 35 per cent in respect of deferred members and  
3 per cent in respect of active employees. New employees in the UK are now offered a defined contribution scheme. Should surplus funds 
arise in the defined benefit section they may be used to finance defined contribution section contributions with company contributions 
reduced accordingly.
The ITPF operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the 
terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation. The ITPF’s assets are held by the trust.
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under 
the ITPF are future inflation levels (including the impact of inflation on future salary increases) and the actual longevity of the membership.
The contributions paid to the ITPF are set by the ITPF Scheme Actuary every three years. The Scheme Actuary is an external consultant, 
appointed by the Trustees. Principal factors that the Scheme Actuary will have regard to include the covenant offered by Imperial Tobacco 
Limited, the level of risk in the ITPF, the expected returns on the ITPF’s assets, the results of the funding assessment on an ongoing basis 
and the expected cost of securing benefits if the fund were to be discontinued. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 106
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued
The latest valuation of the ITPF was carried out as at 31 March 2013 when the market value of the invested assets was £2,957 million. 
Based on the ongoing funding target the total assets were sufficient to cover 100 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members 
for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases. The total assets were sufficient to cover 90 per cent of the total benefits 
that had accrued to members for past service and future service benefits for current members. In compliance with the Pensions Act 2004, 
Imperial Tobacco Limited and the Trustee agreed a scheme-specific funding target, a statement of funding principles and a schedule of 
contributions accordingly.
Following the valuation, the level of employer’s contributions to the scheme was increased from £31 million per year. The Company paid 
£47.5 million on 31 March 2014 and £52.5 million in the year to 31 March 2015 and agreed to pay £57.5 million in the year to 31 March 
2016 and £65 million each year for the subsequent 12 years. Further contributions were agreed to be paid by the Company in the event of 
a downgrade in the credit rating of Imperial Tobacco Group’s senior unsecured long-term debt. In addition, surety guarantees with a total 
value of £400 million and a parental guarantee with ITG have been put in place. The contributions agreed, plus the surety guarantees, 
cover the expected discontinuance cost as at the valuation date.
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position as at 31 March each year. The latest annual update on an ongoing 
basis was carried out as at 31 March 2015 and showed a surplus of £329 million in relation to past service accrued benefits.
The main risk for the Group in respect of the ITPF is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns are not sufficient  
to pay for the benefits (which will be influenced by the factors noted above). The level of equity returns will be a key determinant of overall 
investment return. The investment portfolio is also subject to a range of other risks typical of the asset classes held, in particular credit risk 
on bonds and exposure to the property market.
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) and the current service cost are sensitive to assumptions made 
about future inflation and salary growth levels, as well as assumptions made about life expectation. They are also sensitive to the discount 
rate, which depends on market yields on sterling denominated AA corporate bonds. The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 
assumptions are a more prudent longevity assumption for funding and a different approach to setting the discount rate. A consequence  
of the ITPF’s investment strategy, with a significant proportion of the assets invested in equities and other return-seeking assets, is that the 
difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be relatively volatile.
The Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken Pension Plan
The German scheme, the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken Pension Plan (RCPP), is primarily a career average pension plan that is open  
to new entrants, though a small closed group of members has final salary benefits. It has a weighted average maturity of 18 years.  
The scheme population comprises 53 per cent in respect of pensioners, 16 per cent in respect of deferred members and 31 per cent  
in respect of active employees.
The plan is unfunded and the company pays benefits as they arise. The plan’s obligations arise under a works council agreement and are 
subject to standard German legal requirements around such matters as the benefits to be provided to employees who leave service, and 
pension increases in payment. Over the next year Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH expects to pay £19 million in respect of benefits.
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under 
the plan are future inflation levels and the actual longevity of the membership.
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation and the current service cost are sensitive to assumptions made about 
the above variables, as well as the discount rate, which depends on market yields on euro denominated AA corporate bonds.
ITG Brands Hourly Pension Plan
The USA pension scheme, the ITG Brands Hourly Pension Plan (ITGBH), is a defined benefit pension plan that is open to new entrants.  
It has a weighted average maturity of 11 years. The population comprises 66 per cent in respect of pensioners, 3 per cent in respect of 
deferred members and 31 per cent in respect of active employees.
The plan is funded and benefits are paid from the plan assets. Over the next year the plan expects to pay £23 million in respect of 
benefits. Contributions to the plan are determined based on US regulatory requirements.
Annual benefits in payment do not increase. The main uncertainty affecting the level of benefits payable under the plan is the actual 
longevity of the membership. Other key uncertainties impacting the plan include investment risk and potential past service benefit  
changes from future negotiations.
The IAS19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation and the service cost are sensitive to assumptions made about  
the above variables, as well as the discount rate, which depends on market yields on US dollar denominated AA corporate bonds.
Other plans
Other plans of the Group include various pension plans, other post-employment and long-term employee benefit plans in several  
countries of operation. Many of the plans are funded, with assets backing the obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts, 
others are operated on an unfunded basis. The benefits provided, the approach to funding and the legal basis of the plans reflect their 
local environments. IAS 19 requires that the discount rate for calculating the DBO and service cost is set according to the level of relevant 
market yields on corporate bonds where the market is considered “deep”, or government bonds where it is not.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
The results of the most recent available actuarial valuations for the various plans have been updated to 30 September 2015 in order  
to determine the amounts to be included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The aggregate IAS 19 position is as follows:
Defined benefit plans
2015 2014
£ million DBO Assets Total DBO Assets Total 
At 1 October (4,315) 3,535 (780) (4,400) 3,350 (1,050)
Consolidated income statement expense
Current service cost (48) – (48) (49) – (49)
Past service credit – Spanish free  
tobacco settlement – – – 52 – 52 
Past service credit – curtailment 2 – 2 69 – 69 
Cost of termination benefits (8) – (8) (32) – (32)
Net interest (expense)/income on net defined  
benefit (liability)/asset (157) 138 (19) (174) 138 (36)
Administration costs paid from plan assets – (2) (2) – (3) (3)
(Cost)/income recognised in the income statement (75) 1 
Remeasurements
Actuarial gain due to liability experience 37 – 37 38 – 38 
Actuarial loss due to financial assumption changes (121) – (121) (202) – (202)
Actuarial (loss)/gain due to demographic  
assumption changes (2) – (2) 22 – 22 
Return on plan assets excluding amounts in  
net interest income above – 58 58 – 187 187 
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI (28) 45 
Cash
Employer contributions – 101 101 – 116 116 
Employee contributions (2) 2 – (2) 2 – 
Benefits paid directly by the company 36 (36) – 46 (46) – 
Benefits paid from plan assets 175 (175) – 181 (181) – 
Net cash 101 116 
Other
Obligations and assets of acquired operations (437) 367 (70) – – – 
Spanish free tobacco settlement – – – 48 – 48 
Exchange movements 50 (15) 35 88 (28) 60 
Total other (35) 108 
At 30 September (4,790) 3,973 (817) (4,315) 3,535 (780)
Termination benefits in the year ended 30 September 2015 mainly relate to restructuring activity in Germany.
In the year ended 30 September 2014, there were a number of special events that have impacted the liabilities and the costs of the 
Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
The announcement of the proposed closure of the Nottingham factory gave rise to a curtailment gain of £55 million and termination costs 
of £25 million. Other redundancies in the United Kingdom and Germany gave rise to termination costs of £7 million.
We reached an agreement in Spain with around 70 per cent of pensioners who had previously received payments in respect of  
former entitlements to free cigarettes to accept a one-off cash payment in full settlement. This has given rise to a past service credit of  
£52 million. The cash settlement of £48 million was paid at the beginning of October 2014 and the liability was recognised in the balance 
sheet at 30 September 2014 in other liabilities.
In the Netherlands the defined benefit scheme has been replaced by a multi-employer scheme for most employees (which is accounted 
for as a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19, because it is not possible to determine the Group’s share of the plan assets) and by  
a defined contribution plan for some employees. As a consequence of these changes a curtailment gain of £14 million was recognised in 
the year to 30 September 2014. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 108
22 Retirement Benefit Schemes continued
Retirement benefit scheme costs charged to operating profit
£ million 2015 2014
Defined benefit costs/(credit) in operating profit 56 (37)
Defined contribution costs in operating profit 21 19 
Total retirement benefit scheme costs/(credit) in operating profit 77 (18)
Split as follows in the consolidated income statement:
£ million 2015 2014
Cost of sales 27 31 
Distribution, advertising and selling costs 30 15 
Administrative and other expenses 20 (64)
Total retirement benefit scheme costs/(credit) in operating profit 77 (18)
Assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
£ million 2015 2014
Retirement benefit assets 92 44 
Retirement benefit liabilities (909) (824)
Net retirement benefit liability (817) (780)
Key figures and assumptions used for major plans
2015 2014
£ million unless otherwise indicated ITPF RCPP ITGBH ITPF RCPP 
Benefit obligation (DBO) 3,093 482 361 3,066 502 
Fair value of scheme assets (3,178) – (355) (3,094) – 
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability (85) 482 6 (28) 502 
Current service cost 26 9 2 30 7 
Employer contributions 53 19 – 48 21 
Principal actuarial assumptions used (% per annum)
Discount rate 3.7 2.3 4.3 4.0 2.5 
Future salary increases 3.5 2.9 n/a 3.7 3.1 
Future pension increases 3.0 1.8 n/a 3.2 2.0 
Inflation 3.0 1.8 n/a 3.2 1.9 
2015
ITPF RCPP ITGBH
Male Female Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 21.6 23.0 18.9 22.9 19.0 23.1 
Member currently aged 50 22.9 24.5 20.9 24.8 21.0 25.0 
2014
ITPF RCPP 
Male Female Male Female 
Life expectancy at age 65 years:
Member currently aged 65 21.5 22.9 18.9 22.9 
Member currently aged 50 22.8 24.4 20.9 24.8 
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each territory. 
In particular for the ITPF, SAPS tables are used with various adjustments for different groups of members, reflecting observed experience. 
The largest group of members uses the SAPS All Pensioner Male Amounts table with a 109.8 per cent multiplier. An allowance for 
improvements in longevity is made using the CMI improvement rates with a long-term trend of 1.25 per cent per annum.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Sensitivity analysis for key assumption at the end of the reporting period
Sensitivity analysis is illustrative only and is provided to demonstrate the degree of sensitivity of results to key assumptions. Generally, 
estimates are made by re-performing calculations with one assumption modified and all others held constant.
2015 2014
% increase in DBO ITPF RCPP ITGBH ITPF RCPP 
Discount rate: 0.5% decrease 8.1 9.1 5.7 8.1 8.8 
Rate of inflation: 0.5% decrease (6.6) (6.3) n/a (6.6) (5.4)
One year increase in longevity for a member currently age 65, 
corresponding changes at other ages 3.5 4.7 3.3 3.5 4.5 
The sensitivity to the inflation assumption change includes corresponding changes to the future salary increases and future pension 
increases assumptions, but is assumed to be independent of any change to discount rate.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent decrease/(increase) in the discount rate at the start of the reporting period would have increased/
(decreased) the consolidated income statement pension expense by approximately £15 million.
An approximate split of the major categories of ITPF scheme assets is as follows:
2015 2014
£ million unless otherwise indicated Fair value
Percentage  
of ITPF  
scheme  
assets Fair value
Percentage  
of ITPF  
scheme 
assets 
Equities 1,380 43 1,361 44 
Bonds – index linked government 762 24 650 21 
Bonds – corporate and other 536 17 495 16 
Property 455 15 402 13 
Absolute return pooled funds – – 155 5 
Other – including derivatives, commodities and cash 45 1 31 1 
3,178 100 3,094 100 
The majority of the assets are quoted. Absolute return pooled funds are in overseas, non-quoted assets.
Excluding any self-investment through pooled fund holdings, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund investments in financial instruments  
of Imperial Tobacco PLC amounted to £2 million (2014: £3 million).
An approximate split of the major categories of ITBGH scheme assets is as follows:
2015
£ million unless otherwise indicated Fair value
Percentage  
of ITGBH 
scheme  
assets
Investment funds 312 88 
Equities 6 2 
Bonds – fixed government 23 6 
Bonds – corporate and other 2 1 
Other – including derivatives, commodities and cash 12 3 
355 100 
The majority of the assets are non-quoted. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 110
23 Provisions
2015
£ million Restructuring Other Total 
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 320 166 486 
Additional provisions charged to the consolidated income statement 95 22 117 
Acquisitions (see note 29) – 16 16 
Unwind of discount on redundancy and other long-term provisions 1 – 1 
Amounts used (103) (34) (137)
Unused amounts reversed (25) (21) (46)
Exchange movements (10) (10) (20)
At 30 September 2015 278 139 417 
Analysed as:
£ million 2015
2014 
 (Restated)
Current 197 175 
Non-current 220 311 
417 486 
Restructuring provisions relate mainly to our cost optimisation programme (see note 5).
Other provisions principally relate to commercial legal claims and disputes and are expected to be used over a period of up to 10 years.
24 Share Capital
£ million 2015 2014
Issued and fully paid
1,036,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2014: 1,036,000,000) 104 104 
On 6 March 2014, 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled creating the Capital Redemption reserve.
25 Share Schemes
The Group operates three types of share-based incentive programmes, designed to incentivise staff and to encourage them to build  
a stake in the Group.
Share Matching Scheme
Awards are made to eligible employees who are invited to invest a proportion of their eligible bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  
shares for a period of three years, after which additional shares are awarded on a 1:1 ratio.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Awards of shares under the LTIP are made to the Executive Directors and senior executives at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. They vest three years after grant and are subject to performance criteria.
Sharesave Plan
Options are granted to eligible employees who participate in a designated savings scheme for a three or five year period.
Further details of the schemes including additional criteria applying to Directors and some senior executives are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Analysis of charge to the consolidated income statement
£ million 2015 2014
Share Matching Scheme 19 19 
Long Term Incentive Plan 3 1 
Sharesave Plan 3 2 
25 22 
The awards are predominantly equity-settled. The balance sheet liability in respect of cash-settled schemes at 30 September 2015 was  
£3 million (2014: £2 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Reconciliation of movements in awards/options
2015
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Share  
matching 
awards 
LTIP  
awards 
Sharesave 
options 
Sharesave 
weighted 
average 
exercise  
price £ 
Outstanding at 1 October 2014 2,708 769 1,578 19.36 
Granted 827 404 442 25.40 
Lapsed/cancelled (170) (197) (94) 19.64 
Exercised (635) (17) (407) 19.72 
Outstanding at 30 September 2015 2,730 959 1,519 21.05 
Exercisable at 30 September 2015 – – 47 17.66 
2014
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Share 
matching 
awards 
LTIP 
awards 
Sharesave 
options 
Sharesave 
weighted 
average 
exercise 
price £ 
Outstanding at 1 October 2013 2,723 936 1,737 18.12 
Granted 1,120 320 453 20.40 
Lapsed/cancelled (274) (484) (133) 18.44 
Exercised (861) (3) (479) 16.10 
Outstanding at 30 September 2014 2,708 769 1,578 19.36 
Exercisable at 30 September 2014 – – 46 16.60 
The weighted average Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share price at the date of exercise of awards and options was £29.71 (2014: £23.60). 
The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted during the year was £5.84 (2014: £4.28).
Summary of awards/options outstanding at 30 September 2015
Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated
Number of 
awards/options 
outstanding 
Vesting period 
remaining in 
months 
Exercise price 
of options 
outstanding £
Share Matching Scheme
2013 898 4 n/a 
2014 1,035 16 n/a 
2015 797 28 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 2,730 
Long Term Incentive Plan
2013 239 2 n/a 
2014 316 13 n/a 
2015 404 29 n/a 
Total awards outstanding 959 
Sharesave Plan
2010 1 – 15.63 
2011 36 – 17.80 
2012 77 2 20.45 
2013 552 12 18.40 
2014 416 22 20.40 
2015 437 34 25.40 
Total options outstanding 1,519 
The vesting period is the period between the grant of awards or options and the earliest date on which they are exercisable. The vesting 
period remaining and the exercise price of options outstanding are weighted averages. Participants in the Sharesave Plan have six months 
from the maturity date to exercise their option. Participants in the LTIP have seven years from the end of the vesting period to exercise 
their option. The exercise price of the options is fixed over the life of each option. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 112
25 Share Schemes continued
Pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used 
for the Share Matching Scheme and Sharesave Plan. A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 2015 and 2014 
is as follows.
2015 2014
Share  
matching Sharesave
Share  
matching Sharesave
Risk-free interest rate % 1.1 0.3-1.5 1.5 0.4-1.5 
Volatility (based on 3 or 5 year history) % 22.0 22.5-23.0 22.5 22.5-23.0 
Expected lives of options granted years 3 3 3 3 
Dividend yield % 5.2 5.1-5.2 5.1 5.1 
Fair value £ 25.88 5.33-6.18 21.88 4.18-4.52 
Share price used to determine exercise price £ 30.25 31.75-32.63 25.50 25.50 
Exercise price £ n/a 25.40 n/a 20.40 
Market conditions were incorporated into the Monte Carlo method used in determining the fair value of LTIP awards at grant date. 
Assumptions in 2015 and 2014 are given in the following table.
% 2015 2014
Future Imperial Tobacco Group share price volatility 18.0 18.0 
Future Imperial Tobacco Group dividend yield 5.2 5.1 
Share price volatility of the tobacco and alcohol comparator group 14.0-32.0 14.0-37.0
Share price volatility of the FTSE 100 comparator group n/a n/a 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 30.0 35.0 
Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the FTSE 100 comparator group n/a n/a 
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit 
Trust (the Trusts) have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise  
and vesting of options and awards. The purchase of shares by the Trusts has been financed by a gift of £19.2 million and an interest free 
loan of £181.9 million. In addition the Group has gifted treasury shares to the Trusts. None of the Trusts’ shares has been allocated to 
employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2015. All finance costs and administration expenses connected with the Trusts are 
charged to the consolidated income statement as they accrue. The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held by  
the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share.
Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Millions of shares 2015 2014
At 1 October 4.2 3.3 
Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (1.0) (1.1)
Gift of treasury shares – 2.0 
At 30 September 3.2 4.2 
The shares in the Trusts are accounted for on a first in first out basis and comprise 0.4 million (2014: 0.3 million) shares acquired in the 
open market at a cost of £7.9 million (2014: £7.8 million) and 2.8 million (2014: 3.9 million) treasury shares gifted to the Trusts by the 
Group. There were no shares gifted in the financial year 2015 (2014: 2.0 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
26 Treasury Shares
Shares purchased under the Group’s buyback programme are normally held in a separate treasury reserve and represent a deduction 
from equity shareholders’ funds (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity) and are only cancelled if the number of treasury 
shares approaches 10 percent of issued share capital. During the year the Group purchased no shares (2014: 14,163,486 at a cost of 
£341 million) and cancelled no shares (2014: 31,942,881 shares).
Millions of shares unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014
At 1 October 78.9 98.7 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts – (2.0)
Purchase of treasury shares – 14.1 
Cancellation of treasury shares – (31.9)
At 30 September 78.9 78.9 
Percentage of issued share capital 7.6 7.6 
27 Commitments
Capital commitments
£ million 2015 2014
Contracted but not provided for:
Property, plant and equipment and software 133 177 
Operating lease commitments
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due:
2015 2014
£ million Property Other Total Property Other Total
Within one year 36 10 46 37 12 49 
Between one and five years 88 11 99 86 17 103 
Beyond five years 32 – 32 29 – 29 
156 21 177 152 29 181 
28 Legal Proceedings
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health  
related effects. In the opinion of the Group’s lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being 
vigorously contested. Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending 
actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash flow or financial condition of the Group. 
Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amounts in respect of these cases in the financial statements.
29 Acquisitions
On 12 June 2015 the Group completed the purchase of the Winston, Salem, Kool and Maverick cigarette brands and the blu e-cigarette 
brand from Reynolds, together with the national sales force, office and production facilities previously owned by Lorillard for a cash 
consideration of $7,056 million (£4,613 million).
The acquisition builds on Imperial’s strategy of investing in Growth Markets, making Imperial a major US competitor with around  
10 per cent of the cigarette market share and national distribution.
Total acquisition costs of £40 million (2014: £13 million) have been recorded in the income statement. These have been excluded from  
the Group’s adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share (see notes 3 and 10).
In the period from 12 June 2015, the acquisition has contributed £657 million to revenue and generated an operating loss after 
restructuring and amortisation of £84 million. If the acquisition had taken place on 1 October 2014, Group revenue would have been 
£26,958 million and Group operating profit would have been £1,939 million.
Provisional fair values represent management’s current best estimates. We engaged external consultants to assist in the valuation of the 
cigarette and e-cigarette brands, which make up the most significant element of the assets acquired and have been valued using the 
income method. Property valuations have been based on the assessments of independent valuers. Assets have been acquired without 
historic product liabilities for cigarette brands. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 114
29 Acquisitions continued
Goodwill of £381 million represents the value of the accumulated sales and manufacturing workforces and synergies expected to be 
realised following the acquisition.
£ million
Provisional fair 
values
Intangible assets 4,053 
Property, plant and equipment 106 
Software 8 
Retirement benefit assets 7 
Deferred tax assets 36 
Total non-current assets 4,210 
Inventories 152 
Trade and other receivables 91 
Total current assets 243 
Trade and other payables (128)
Total current liabilities (128)
Retirement benefit liabilities (77)
Provisions (16)
Total non-current liabilities (93)
Total identifiable net assets 4,232 
Consideration 4,613 
Goodwill on acquisition 381 
30 Net Debt
The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, and derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows:
£ million
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
Current 
borrowings 
Non-current 
borrowings 
Derivative 
financial 
instruments Total 
At 1 October 2014 (Restated) 1,413 (429) (9,462) (48) (8,526)
Reallocation of current borrowings from non-current borrowings – (1,620) 1,620 – –
Cash flow 686 33 (4,373) (139) (3,793)
Accretion of interest – – (13) 14 1 
Change in fair values – – – 388 388 
Exchange movements (57) 59 (22) – (20)
At 30 September 2015 2,042 (1,957) (12,250) 215 (11,950)
Analysis by denomination currency
2015
£ million GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 341 737 598 366 2,042 
Total borrowings (3,858) (4,390) (5,942) (17) (14,207)
(3,517) (3,653) (5,344) 349 (12,165)
Effect of cross-currency swaps 3,782 (3,570) – – 212 
265 (7,223) (5,344) 349 (11,953)
Derivative financial instruments 3 
Net debt (11,950)
2014 (Restated)
£ million GBP EUR USD Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 247 396 342 428 1,413 
Total borrowings (3,870) (4,625) (1,396) – (9,891)
(3,623) (4,229) (1,054) 428 (8,478)
Effect of cross-currency swaps 2,691 (2,661) – – 30 
(932) (6,890) (1,054) 428 (8,448)
Derivative financial instruments (78)
Net debt (8,526)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Adjusted net debt
Management monitors the Group’s borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair value of 
derivative financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges.
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Reported net debt (11,950) (8,526)
Accrued interest 279 280 
Fair value of derivatives providing commercial hedges 25 134 
Adjusted net debt (11,646) (8,112)
31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
£ million 2015
2014  
(Restated)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 686 (387)
Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments (139) 121 
Increase in borrowings (4,720) (2,303)
Repayment of borrowings 380 3,200 
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (3,793) 631 
Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative financial instruments 389 16 
Exchange movements (20) 320 
Movement in net debt during the year (3,424) 967 
Opening net debt (8,526) (9,493)
Closing net debt (11,950) (8,526)
32 Changes in Non-Controlling Interests
There have been no changes in non-controlling interests in the current year.
In July 2014 the Group completed the IPO of the Logistics business, with 30 per cent of the shares of Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista Holdings SA being listed on Spanish stock exchanges. This increased non-controlling interest by £363 million. Sales proceeds 
were €518 million. Net proceeds after fees and costs were £395 million and were used to reduce the Group’s debt. A gain of £32 million 
was recognised in equity. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 116
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
Report on the Parent Company 
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC’s Parent Company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”):
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 30 September 2015;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and 
Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 – The Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2015; and
 – The Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary  
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs 
(UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with  
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and  
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland).  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and 
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide  
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information  
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the  
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent  
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Imperial T obacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2015.
John Maitland (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Bristol
3 November 2015 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC BALANCE SHEET
at 30 September
£ million Notes 2015 2014
Fixed assets
Investments iii 7,968 7,968 
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year iv 67 – 
Current liabilties
Cash at bank and in hand (1) (1)
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year v – (163)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 66 (164)
Total assets less current assets/(liabilities) 8,034 7,804 
Net assets 8,034 7,804 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital vi 104 104 
Capital redemption reserve vii 3 3 
Share premium account vii 5,833 5,833 
Profit and loss account vii 2,094 1,864 
Total shareholders’ funds 8,034 7,804 
The financial statements on pages 117 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 November 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Williamson Oliver Tant
Chairman Director Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC
i Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention, the 
Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account has been presented for the Company.  
As permitted by FRS 29, the Company has elected not to present FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in the notes to its individual 
financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented in the consolidated financial statements. As permitted by FRS 8 Related 
Party Disclosures the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out below.
Investments
Investments comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Dividends
Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders whereas interim 
dividends payable are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid. Dividends receivable are recognised as an asset when 
they are approved.
Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as cash and debtors. Debtors are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A provision 
for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the profit and loss account. For interest-bearing assets, the 
carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Treasury Shares
When the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity until the shares are reissued or disposed of. When such shares are 
subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects, increases shareholders’ funds. When such shares are cancelled they are transferred to the capital redemption reserve. 
ii Dividends
Distributions to ordinary equity holders
£ million 2015 2014 2013
Paid interim of 42.8p per share (2014: 38.8p, 2013: 35.2p)
 – Paid August 2013 – – 341 
 – Paid August 2014 – 370 – 
 – Paid June 2015 204 – – 
 – Paid September 2015 204 – – 
Interim dividend paid 408 370 341 
Proposed interim of 49.1p per share (2014: nil, 2013: nil)
 – To be paid December 2015 468 – – 
Interim dividend proposed 468 – – 
Proposed final of 49.1p per share (2014: 89.3p, 2013: 81.2p)
 – Paid February 2014 – – 779 
 – Paid February 2015 – 851 – 
 – To be paid March 2016 468 – – 
Final dividend 468 851 779 
Total ordinary share dividends of 141.0p per share (2014: 128.1p, 2013: 116.4p) 1,344 1,221 1,120 
The third interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 49.1 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend of £468 
million, which will be paid in December 2015.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 49.1 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend payment  
of £468 million in March 2016 based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2015, and is subject to shareholder 
approval. If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2015 will be £1,344 million (2014: £1,221 million). The dividend paid during 
2015 is £1,259 million (2014: £1,149 million). Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
iii Investments
Cost of shares in Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited
£ million 2015 2014
At 1 October 7,968 7,968 
At 30 September 7,968 7,968 
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
A list of the subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 121 to 130.
iv Debtors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
£ million 2015 2014
Amounts owed from Group undertakings 67 – 
Amounts owed from Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date for repayment and are repayable on demand.
v Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
£ million 2015 2014
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 163 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date for repayment and are repayable on demand.
vi Called Up Share Capital
£ million 2015 2014
Issued and fully paid
1,036,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each (2014: 1,036,000,000) 104 104 
vii Reserves
£ million
Share  
premium 
account 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
Profit  
and loss 
account 
At 1 October 2014 5,833 3 1,864 
Profit for the year – – 1,489 
Dividends – – (1,259)
At 30 September 2015 5,833 3 2,094 
As permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented. The profit 
attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the financial statements of the Company, is £1,489 million (2014: £1,434 million). This is after 
charging an audit fee of £0.9 million (2014: £1.0 million).
Treasury shares
In 2011, the Company recommenced its share buyback programme at the rate of around £500 million per annum as an efficient means of 
returning surplus funds to shareholders. Shares purchased under the buyback programme are retained in issue and represent a deduction 
from shareholders’ funds. The share buyback programme was halted on 15 July 2014. During 2014 the Company purchased 14,163,000 
shares under the programme at a cost of £341 million, and on 6 March 2014 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled, creating 
a capital redemption reserve.
Millions of shares unless otherwise indicated 2015 2014
At 1 October 78.9 98.7 
Gift to Employee Share Ownership Trusts – (2.0)
Purchase of treasury shares – 14.1 
Cancellation of treasury shares – (31.9)
At 30 September 78.9 78.9 
Percentage of issued share capital 7.6 7.6  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 120
viii Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
£ million 2015 2014
Profit for the year 1,489 1,434 
Dividends (1,259) (1,149)
Purchase of own shares – (341)
Movements in total shareholders’ funds 230 (56)
Opening total shareholders’ funds 7,804 7,860 
Closing total shareholders’ funds 8,034 7,804 
ix Guarantees
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has guaranteed various borrowings and liabilities of certain UK and overseas subsidiary undertakings, 
including various Dutch and Irish subsidiaries. At 30 September 2015, the contingent liability totalled £14,123 million (2014: £9,965 
million).
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2015 
and which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not file separate financial statements with the 
Chamber of Commerce. Under the same article, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has issued declarations to assume any and all liabilities for 
any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 
2015. The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, have therefore availed themselves of the 
exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 in respect of documents required to be attached to the 
annual returns for such companies.
The Directors have assessed the fair value of the above guarantees and do not consider them to be material. They have therefore not 
been recognised on the balance sheet.
x Related Party Disclosures
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report. These disclosures form part of  
the financial statement.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, and joint ventures, the 
prinicpal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 30 September 2015 is disclosed below. 
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares  
in the subsidiaries are held directly by the Company. 
Subsidiaries: Registered in England and Wales, wholly owned
Name Principal activity
Attendfriend Limited Dormant
British Tobacco Company Limited Dormant
Congar International UK Limited Dormant
Fontem UK Limited Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the UK
Imperial Brands Limited Dormant
Imperial Investments Limited Dormant
Imperial Tobacco Altadis Limited Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets (1) Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets (2) Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets (3) Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets (4) Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited Providing treasury services to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Providing treasury services to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (1) Limited 
(iv)
Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Holdings (2007) Limited 
(iv)
Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Initiatives Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Lacroix Limited Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco  
products in the UK
Imperial Tobacco Overseas (Polska) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (1) Limited 
(viii)
Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (2) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings (3) Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Overseas Limited 
(x)
Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Pension Trustees (Burlington House) Limited Dormant
Imperial Tobacco Pension Trustees Limited 
(iv)
Dormant
ITG Brands Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Joseph & Henry Wilson Limited Licensing rights for the manufacture and sale  
of tobacco products
La Flor de Copan UK Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Park Lane Tobacco Company Limited Dormant
Rizla UK Limited Entity ceased trading
Sinclair Collis Limited 
(iv)
Distributor of tobacco products in England,  
Scotland and Wales
Tabacalera de Garcia UK Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 122
Subsidiaries: Incorporated overseas, wholly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
800 JR Cigar Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Altadis Canarias SAU 
(ii)
Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands
Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU Spain Provision of finance to Altadis SA and its subsidiaries
Altadis Holdings USA Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Altadis Luxembourg SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Altadis Management Services Corporation United States of America Trademark service company
Altadis Mayotte SAS France, Mayotte Island Sales and distribution of tobacco products in Mayotte Island
Altadis Middle East FZCO United Arab Emirates Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the Middle East
Altadis Ocean Indien SAS France (La Réunion Island) Sales and distribution of tobacco products in  
la Réunion Island
Altadis Retail Corporation United States of America Trademark owner
Altadis S.A.U. Spain Manufacture, sales and distribution of tobacco products  
in Spain
Altadis Shade Company LLC United States of America Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the US
Altadis USA Inc United States of America Manufacture and sale of cigars in the US
Association pour la Recherche sur les 
Nicotianées (ARN)
France Research and development
Athena IP Vermogensverwaltungs GmbH Germany Davidoff cigarette trademark owner
Badische Tabakmanufaktur  
Roth-Händle GmbH,
Germany Trademark owner
Cacique, SA – Comércio,  
Importaçao e Exportaçao 
Brazil Dormant
Casa Blanca Inc United States of America Restaurant
CBHC Inc United States of America Dormant
Cigar Savor Enterprises LLC United States of America Manufacture of tobacco products
Commonwealth Brands Inc United States of America Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the US
Commonwealth-Altadis, Inc United States of America Sales and distribution of tobacco products in the US
Congar International Corp (Delaware) United States of America Manufacturing and distribution of mass market cigars
Conneticut Shade Corporation United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Consolidated Cigar Holdings Inc 
(vii)
United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Coralma International SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Cuban Cigar Brands BV
 (v)
Netherlands Antilles Trademark owner
Direct Products Inc (Inactive) United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Dunkerquoise des Blends SAS France Tobacco processing
East Side Cigar, Inc United States of America Production and distribution of cigars
Ets L Lacroix Fils NV/SA Belgium Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Belgium
Fontem (Beijing) Technology  
Solutions Limited
 (i)
People’s Republic of China Research and development
Fontem Holdings 1 B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem Holdings 2 B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem Holdings 3 B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem Holdings 4 B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem Holdings B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem International GmbH Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Fontem US, Inc. United States of America Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the US
Fontem Ventures B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Gauloises Inc. United States of America Dormant
Huotraco International Limited Cambodia Production and marketing of tobacco products
Imperial Nominees Limited 
(ii)
New Zealand Trustee Company
Imperial Tobacco (Asia) Pte. Ltd Singapore Trading of tobacco-related products
Imperial Tobacco (Beijing) Limited
 (i)
People’s Republic of China Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Australia Holdings B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited Australia Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Australia
Imperial Tobacco Austria Marketing  
Service GmbH 
Austria Marketing of tobacco products in Austria
Imperial Tobacco BH doo
 (i)
Bosnia-Herzegovina Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Bosnia
Imperial Tobacco Brasil Comércio  
de Produtos de Tabaco Ltda
Brazil Co-ordinating and monitoring of WEST liecense productions 
and distribution of tobacco products
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Imperial Tobacco Bulgaria EOOD
 (i)
Bulgaria Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Bulgaria
Imperial Tobacco China Limited
 (i)
People’s Republic of China Marketing of tobacco products in China
Imperial Tobacco CR s.r.o. Czech Republic Sales and marketing of tobacco products  
in the Czech Republic
Imperial Tobacco Denmark ApS Denmark Distribution of tobacco products in Denmark and Greenland
Imperial Tobacco Distribution EOOD
 (i)
Bulgaria Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Bulgaria
Imperial Tobacco EFKA  
Management GmbH 
Germany Manufacture of tobacco products in Germany
Imperial Tobacco España, S.L.U. Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Estonia OÜ Estonia Sales of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Finance France SAS France Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy Finland Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Finland
Imperial Tobacco Germany  
Finance GmbH 
Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Hellas S.A. Greece Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Greece
Imperial Tobacco Holdings  
(Netherlands) B.V.
The Netherlands Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Holdings  
International B.V. 
The Netherlands Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Ireland  
Unlimited Company
Ireland
 (v)
Provision of finance to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Italia S.r.l. Italy Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Italy
Imperial Tobacco Italy S.r.l. Italy Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Japan Kabushiki Kaisha Japan Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Japan
Imperial Tobacco Kyrgyzstan LLC
 (i)
Kyrgyzstan Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan
Imperial Tobacco Magyarország 
Dohányforgalmazó Kft. (Imperial  
Tobacco Hungary)
Hungary Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Hungary
Imperial Tobacco Management (1) Limited Guernsey Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Management (2) Limited Guernsey Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Management  
Luxembourg (3) sarl
Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Marketing Sdn Bhd Malaysia Trading of tobacco products
Imperial Tobacco Mullingar Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland
Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited New Zealand Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand
Imperial Tobacco Norway AS Norway Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Norway
Imperial Tobacco Polska Manufacturing SA Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Polska S.A. Poland Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Poland
Imperial Tobacco Portugal SSPLC Portugal Advertising and support management
Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC Russia Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco SCG doo Beograd
 (i)
Serbia Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Serbia
Imperial Tobacco Sigara ve Tutunculuck 
Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S.
Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Slovakia a.s. Slovak Republic Sales and marketing of tobacco products  
in the Slovak Republic
Imperial Tobacco South Africa S.A. Panama Provision of services to other Group companies
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing 
Company Limited 
Taiwan Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan
Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis Ve 
Pazarlama A.S. 
Turkey Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Turkey
Imperial Tobacco Ukraine
 (i)
Ukraine Sales and marketing of tobacco products un Ukraine
Imperial Tobacco US Holdings BV The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC
 (i)
Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco West Africa SAS
 (i)
Cote D'Ivoire Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl CJSC
 (i)
Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia
Imperial Tobacco Zagreb doo
 (i)
Croatia Marketing and distribution of tobacco-related products  
in Croatia Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 124
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
IMPTOB South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa Manufacture of tobacco products in South Africa
International Marketing Promotional  
Services Limited
Nigeria Sales and marketing and of tobacco products in Nigeria
ITB Corporation Limited Bahamas Trademark owner
ITG Brands Holdco LLC United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
ITG Brands, LLC United States of America Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in the US
ITG Holdings USA Inc
 (ix)
United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies
ITI Cigars SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies
ITL Pacific (HK) Limited Hong Kong Manufacture and sale of tobacco and tobacco- 
related products
J & R Tobacco (New Jersey) Corp United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JAW-Invest Oy Finland Trademark owner
John Player & Sons Limited Ireland Sales and marketing of tobacco products in  
the Republic of Ireland
John Player Ireland Pension Trustee Limited Ireland Trustee Company
JR Cigar (DC) Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Cigars.com, Inc. United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Mooresville, Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Tobacco NC, Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Tobacco of America Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Tobacco of Burlington Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Tobacco of Michigan Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JR Tobacco Outlet Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
JSNM SARL France Trademark owner
La Flor de Copan SAS France Manufacture of cigars in Honduras
Los Olvidados SRL Dominican Republic Manufacture and distribution of cigars
Max Rohr, Inc United States of America Trademark owner
MC Management, Inc. United States of America Provision of services to other Group companies
Meccarillos France, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Meccarillos International, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Meccarillos Suisse, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Midtown Cigar, Inc. United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco-related products
Millennium Tobacco Ireland Provision of finance to other Group companies
Newglade International Unlimited Company Ireland Provision of finance to other Group companies
Phillppine Bobbin Corporation Phillippines Manufacture of tobacco-related products
PT Reemtsma Indonesia Indonesia Manufacture of tobacco-related products
Real Club de Golf la Herrería S.A. Spain Management of golf course
REEMARK Gesellschaft für 
Markenkooperation GmbH
Germany Dormant
Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Germany Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Germany
Reemtsma Mexico SA de CV IL Mexico In liquidation
Rizla International B.V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Robert Burton Associates Limited United States of America Marketing of papers in the US
Santa Clara Inc United States of America Distribution of cigars
Seita Participations SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Seita senegal Sarl Senegal Dormant
Skruf Snus AB Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sales of tobacco  
products in Sweden
Société Centrafricaine de Cigarettes SA
 (i)
Central African Republic Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes  
in Central African Republic
Subsidiaries: Incorporated overseas, wholly owned continued
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Société Centrafricaine de Distribution Sarl
 (i)
Central African Republic Dormant
Société du Mont Nimba Sarl
 (i)
Guinee Conakry Dormant
Société Nationale d’Exploitation Industrielle 
des Tabacs et Allumettes SAS (SEITA)
France Manufacture and sale of tobacco products  
in France, and export of tobacco products
Société pour le Développement du  
Tabac en Afrique SAS 
France Purchasing company
System Designed to Africa Sarl Morocco Distribution of tobacco products
Tabacalera Brands Inc United States of America Trademark owner
Tabacalera Brands SLU Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Tabacalera de Garcia Limited Bermunda Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Tabacalera de Garcia SAS France Manufacture of cigars in the Dominican Republic
Tabacalera SLU Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Tahiti Tabacs SASU France, Papeete (Tahiti) Distribution of tobacco products in Denmark and Greenland
Tobacco Products Fulfillments, Inc. United States of America Fulfilment services
Tobaccor SAS
 (v)
France Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Tobaċna 3DVA, trgovsko podjetje, d.o.o. Slovenia Retail of products in Slovenia
Tobaċna Grosist d.o.o. Slovenia Marketing and distribution in Slovenia
Tobaċna Ljubljana d.o.o.
 (v)
Slovenia Sales and marketing tobacco products in Slovenia
Tobamark International SA France Trademark owner
Urex Inversiones SA Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies
Van Nelle Canada Limited
 (vii)
Canada Import and distribution of tobacco and tobacco-related 
products in Canada
Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B.V.
 (x)
The Netherlands Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands
Van Nelle Tobacco International  
Holdings B.V. 
The Netherlands Sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products
West Park Tobacco Inc. United States of America Purchase company for US tobaccos Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 126
Subsidiaries: Incorporated overseas, partly owned
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Be To Be Pharma, S.L Spain Distribution of pharmaceuticals 70.0
Caribbean Investment Corporation, SA
 (i)
Switzerland Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0
Comercial Iberoamericana SA
 (i)
Spain Wholesale and distribution of tobacco 
products
50.0
Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle  
des Tabacs Africains SAS 
France Management company 99.9
Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle  
des Tabacs de Côte d’Ivoire SA, IL
 (i)
Côte d’Ivoire In liquidation 74.6
Compagnie Réunionnaise  
des Tabacs SAS
France, St Pierre  
(La Réunion)
Manufacture of cigarettes 98.6
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
de Publicaciones Logista SLU
 (iv)
Spain Distribution of published materials and other 
products
70.0
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista Holdings, S.A.
 (iii)
Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0
Compañía de Distribución Integral  
Logista Polska, sp. Z o.o. (SL)
Poland Distribution of tobacco products in Poland 70.0
Compañía de Distribución  
Integral Logista S.A.U.
Spain Distribution of tobacco products in Spain 70.0
Coprova SAS
 (i)
France Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Caribbean 50.0
Cuba Cigar, S.L.
(i)
Spain Distribution of Cuban cigars in the  
Canary Islands
50.0
Cubacigar
 (i)
Belgium Distribution of cigars in Belgium 50.0
Cyberpoint, S.L.U. Spain Distribution of POS software 70.0
Dalso, S.A.
 (i)
Dominican Republic Distribution of Cuban cigars in Dominican 
Republic
50.0
Distribérica SA Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0
Distribución de Publicaciones  
Siglo XXI, Guadalajara
Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Spain
56.0
Distribuidora de Ediciones SADE, SAU Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Spain
70.0
Distribuidora de las Rias SA Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Spain
70.0
Distribuidora del Este S.A.U. Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Spain
70.0
Distribuidora del Noroeste SL Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Spain
70.0
Dronas 2002, SLU Spain Industrial parcel and express delivery service 70.0
Empor – Importação e exportação, SA
 (i)
Portugal Distribution of tobacco products in Portugal 50.0
Gauloises (Pty) Limited IL South Africa In liquidation 50.0
Habanos Nordic AB
 (i)
Sweden Distribution of Cuban cigars in Scandinavia 50.0
Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine
 (i)
Ukraine Manufacture of tobacco products in Ukraine 99.9
Imperial Tobacco TKS a.d.
 (i)
Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and distribution  
of tobacco products in Macedonia
99.1
Imprimerie Industrielle Ivoirienne SA
 (i)
Côte d’Ivoire Printing company 72.8
Infifon APS
 (i)
Denmark Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0
Infifon Hong Kong Limited
 (i)
China Distribution of Cuban cigars in China 50.0
Infifon I, BV
 (i)
The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0
Infifon II NV
 (i)
Netherlands Antilles Distribution of Cuban cigars in Russia 50.0
ITB Corporation y Cía., S.R.C. Spain Trademark owner 80.0
La Mancha 2000, S.A., Sociedad  
Unipersonal
Spain Logistics services 70.0
Lao Tobacco Limited
 (i)
Laos Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes  
in Laos
53.0
Logesta Deutschland Gmbh,  
Sociedad Unipersonal
Germany Long-haul transportation in Germany 70.0
Logesta France SARL France Long-haul transportation in France 70.0
Logesta Gestión de Transporte SAU Spain Long-haul transportation services in Spain 70.0
Logesta Italia, S.R.L., Sociedad Unipersonal Italy Long-haul transportation in Italy 70.0
Logesta Lusa LDA Portugal Long-haul transportation in Portugal 70.0
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Logesta Maroc SA IL Morocco In liquidation 89.8
Logesta Polska Sp Zoo Poland Long-haul transportation in Poland 70.0
Logista France Holding SA France Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0
Logista France SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0
Logista Italia Spa Italy Long-haul transportation in Italy 70.0
Logista Pharma SA Spain Distribution of pharmaceuticals 70.0
Logista Promotion et Transport SAS France Marketing and distribution of tobacco 
products in France
70.0
Logista, Transportes, Transitários  
e Pharma, Lda., Sociedad Unipersonal
Portugal Industrial parcel delivery and pharmaceutical 
logistics in Portugal
70.0
Logista-Dis SAU Spain Sale of tobacco products in Spain 70.0
MABUCIG (Manufacture  
Burkinabe de Cigarettes)
Burkina Faso Manufacture of cigarettes in Burkina Faso 72.7
Macotab SAS (Manufacture  
Corse des Tabacs)
France, Bastia Manufacture and sales of cigarettes 99.9
Manufacture de Cigarettes du Tchad SA Tchad Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes  
in Chad
95.0
Midsid – Sociedade Portuguesa de 
Distribução, S.A., Sociedad Unipersonal
Portugal Wholesale of tobacco and other products 70.0
MTOA SA
 (i)
Senegal Manufacture and sales of cigarettes in Senegal 97.3
NITAF Limited, IL
 (i)
Nigeria In liquidation 50.0
Promotora Vascongada  
de Distribuciones SA 
Spain Distribution of published materials and other 
products in Biscay and Santander
70.0
Publicaciones y Libros SA Spain Publishing company 70.0
Puro Tabaco SA
 (i)
Argentina Distribution of Cuban cigars in Argentina  
and Chile
50.0
Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC
 (i)
Kyrgyzstan Manufacture and sale of tobacco products  
in Kyrgyzstan
98.6
S3T Pte Ltd
 (i)
Singapore Holding investments in subsidiary companies 51.0
SACIMEM SA
 (i)
Madagascar Manufacture of cigarettes in Madagascar 65.4
SITAB Industries SA
 (i)
Côte d’Ivoire Manufacture of cigarettes in Côte d’Ivoire 80.5
SITAR Holding SAS Ile de la Réunion Holding investments in subsidiary companies 98.6
Société Africaine d’Impression  
Industrielle SA
 (i)
Senegal Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Senegal
99.8
Société Allumettiere Française SAS France Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes
70.0
Société de Distribution Sénégalaise SA
 (i)
Senegal Dormant 97.5
Société des Cigarettes Gabonaises SA
 (i)
Gabon Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Gabon
87.8
Société Industrielle et Agricole du Tabac 
Tropical SA
 (i)
Congo Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Congo
89.6
Société Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA
 (i) (iii)
Côte d’Ivoire Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Côte d’Ivoire
74.1
Société Marocaine des Tabacs SA Morocco Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Morocco
99.9
SOCTAM SA
 (i)
Madagascar Manufacture and distribution  
of cigarettes in Mali
50.5
Supergroup SAS France Wholesale of tobacco products 70.0
T2 Gran Canaria SA Spain Pharmaceutical products logistics  
in Canary Islands
70.0
Top Cigars Corporation LLC
 (i)
Russia Distributor of Habanos in Russia 50.0
Universal Brands, S.A. Spain Trademark owner 80.0
Urecor Comunicación y Medios, S.A. Spain Dormant 75.0
Xinet SA
 (i)
Uruguay Distribution of Cuban cigars in Uruguay 50.0 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 128
Associates: Registered in England and Wales
Name Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
C H (Downton) Limited
 (ix)
Dormant 25.0
F J (Downton) Limited Dormant 25.0
Hunters & Frankau Limited Dormant 25.0
Incentive Marketing Services (UK) Limited Dormant 25.0
Jacon Financial Services Limited
 (ix) 
Dormant 25.0
Joseph Samuel & Son Limited Dormant 25.0
Knight Brothers Cigar Shippers Limited Dormant 25.0
Lancha House Limited Dormant 25.0
Melbourne Hart & Company Limited Dormant 25.0
Melbourne Hart Holdings Limited
 (ix)
Dormant 25.0
Morris & Morris Limited Dormant 25.0
Tabaco Torcido Traders Limited Dormant 25.0
The English Import Company Limited Dormant 25.0
Tropic Tobacco Company Limited Dormant 25.0
Associates: Incorporated overseas
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
5th Avenue Products Trading GmbH
 (i) (iv)
Germany Distribution of Cuban cigars in Germany 27.5
Avanza Libros S.L.U.,  
Sociedad Unipersonal,IL
Spain In liquidation 35.0
Azur Finances SA Cameroon Holding investments in subsidiary companies 20.0
Caribbean Cigars Corporation NV
 (i)
Curacao Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Caribbean 25.0
Compañia Española de Tabaco en  
Rama SA (Cetarsa)
 (i)
Spain Production and sale of raw tobacco 20.8
Diadema Spa
 (i)
Italy Distribution of Cuban cigars in Italy 30.0
Distribuidora de Publicaciones del Sur, S.A. Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products
35.0
Distribuidora Valenciana de Ediciones S.A. Spain Distribution of published materials and  
other products in Valencia
35.0
Entreprises des Tabacs en Guinée
 (i)
Guinée Conakry Dormant 34.0
Havana House Cuban Products  
Specialist Limited
 (i)
New Zealand Distribution of Cuban cigars in New Zealand 25.0
Havana House Limited
 (i)
Canada Distribution of Cuban cigars in Canada 25.0
Importadora y Exportadora de Puros  
y Tabacos SA DE CV (IEPT)
 (i)
Mexico Marketing and distribution of Cuban cigars  
in Mexico
25.0
Intertabak AG
 (i)
Switzerland Distribution of Cuban cigars in Switzerland 
and Liechtenstein
25.0
Lippoel Tobacco Corporation  
International NV
Netherlands Antilles Distributor of Cuban leaf 27.5
Logista Libros SL Spain Distribution of books 35.0
Manufacture Mauritanienne des Tabacs Mauritanie Manufacture and import of tobacco products 34.6
Maori Tabacs, S.A.
 (i)
Andorra Distribution of Cuban cigars in Andorra 25.0
Marfany I Mas Industria Tobacco SA (Mitsa) 
(MARFANY MAS INDUSTRIA  
TABAQUERA, S.A.)
Andorra Manufacture of Cuban cigars in Andorra 24.0
New Mentality Limited
 (i)
British Virgin Islands Dormant 25.0
Pacific Holding (Thailand)  
Company Limited
 (i) (vi)
Thailand Holding investments in subsidiary companies 25.0
Phoenicia Beirut SAL
 (i)
Lebanon Retail in Lebanon 25.0
Phoenicia TAA Cyprus Ltd
 (i)
Cyprus Distribution of Cuban cigars in the  
Middle East and Africa
25.0
Pit Stop Limited
 (i)
British Virgin Islands Dormant 25.0
Promotion et Distribution a Madagascar
 (i)
Madagascar Distribution of cigarettes in Madagascar 33.4
SITABAC S.A. Cameroon Manufacture and distribution of tobacco 
products in Cameroon
34.5
Société Internationale  
des Tabacs Malgaches
 (i)
Madagascar Leaf processing 47.9
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Société Nationale des Tabacs  
et Allumettes du Mali SA
 (i)
Mali Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes  
in Mali
28.0
Terzia SPA Italy Wholesale to tobacconists in Italy 47.6
The Pacific Cigar (Thailand) Co Limited
 (i) (vii)
Thailand Distribution of Cuban cigars in Thailand 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Co. (Singapore)  
Pte Limited
 (i)
Singapore Distribution of Cuban cigars in Singapore 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Company (Australia)  
Pty Limited
 (i)
Australia Distribution of Cuban cigars in Australia 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Company (Macau) Limited
 (i)
Macau Distribution of Cuban cigars in Macau 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Company (Malaysia)  
SDN BHD
 (i)
Malaysia Dormant 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Company  
(New Zealand) Limited
 (i)
New Zealand Distribution of Cuban cigars in New Zealand 25.0
The Pacific Cigar Company Limited
 (i)
China Distribution of Cuban cigars in Asia 25.0
The Pacific Cigar International Co Limited
 (i)
Taiwan Distribution of Cuban cigars in Asia 25.0
Joint Ventures: Incorporated overseas
Name Country of incorporation Principal activity
Percentage 
owned
Altabana SL
 (i)
Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 
involved in the marketing and sale  
of Cuban cigars
50.0
Corporación Habanos SA
 (i)
Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0
International Cubana de Tabaco SA
 (i)
Cuba Manufacture of cigarillos in Cuba 50.0
Intertab SA
 (i)
Switzerland Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0
NITAF Holding BV, IL
 (iv)
The Netherlands In liquidation 50.0
Promotora de Cigarros SL
 (i)
Spain Sales and marketing of cigars manfucatured  
in Cuba
50.0
West Tobacco Pte Ltd
 (i)
Singapore Dormant 50.0
Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista 
S.A.U. y GTECH Global Lottery, S.L.U., U.T.E.
Spain Services and distribution 50.0
Partnerships
The Group also owns the following partnerships:
Name Country Principal activity
Fabrica de Tabacos La Flor de Copan S  
de R.L. de CV 
Honduras Holding investments in subsidiary companies  
Principal place of business: Apartado Postal 209,  
Colonia Mejia-García, Santa Rosa de Copán, Honduras
Imperial Tobacco (Efka) GmbH & Co. KG Germany Manufacture of tubs in Germany  
Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 
1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany
Imperial Tobacco Kazakhstan LLP
 (i)
Kazakhstan Marketing and distribution of tobacco  
products in Kazakhstan  
Principal place of business: 9th Floor, block C and D,  
Tole bi street 101, Almalinskyi district Street,  
050012 Almaty City, Kazakhstan
ITG Brands Holdpartner LP United States of America Marketing and sale of tobacco products  
in United States of America  
Principal place of business: 327 Hillsborough Street, 
Raleigh, NC 27603, North Carolina, United States  
of America Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 130
The subsidiaries listed were held throughout the year and the consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary 
undertakings identified.
Unless otherwise stated the entities are unlised, have one type of ordinary share capital and a reporting period ended  
on 30 September each year.
(i) December year end
(ii) March year end
(iii) Listed entity
(iv) Holding of one type of ordinary share only (where more than one type of share is authorised / in issue)
(v) Holding of two types of ordinary share (where more than one type of ordinary share is authorised / in issue)
(vi) Holding of preference shares only
(vii) Holding of ordinary and preference shares
(viii) Holding of ordinary and redeemable shares
(ix) Holding of ordinary and deferred shares
(x) Holding of two types of ordinary share and redeemable shares
The percentage of issued share capital held by the immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same except for 
Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by a number of Group 
companies, and Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista SAU, Logista France SAS, and Logista Italia SpA which are 100 per cent 
owned subsidiaries of Compañía de Distribución Integral Logista Holdings SA, which is itself 70 per cent owned by Altadis SAU.
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS continued Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
 
  Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 
Registered Office 
121 Winterstoke Road 
Bristol BS3 2LL 
+44 (0)117 963 6636 
Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 
Registrars 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
0371 384 2037* 
+44 (0)121 415 7009 
0371 384 2255* text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 
* Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays. 
ADR Depositary 
Shareholder Services for ADR Holders 
Citibank Shareholder Services 
PO Box 43077 
Providence, RI 02940-3077 
USA 
Toll-free number in the USA: 1-877-CITI-ADR (1-877-248-4237) 
email: citibank@shareholders-online.com 
Stockbrokers 
Credit Suisse International 
One Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4QJ 
+44 (0)20 7888 8000 
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 
20 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4AD 
+44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
2 Glass Wharf 
Bristol BS2 OFR 
Lawyers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD 
Ashurst LLP 
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA 
   Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 132
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued 
132 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
Financial Calendar and Dividends 
Half-year results are expected to be announced in May 2016 and the full year’s results in November 2016. 
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 3 February 2016 at the Bristol Marriott Hotel City Centre. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the circular enclosed with this report. 
Dividends are generally paid at the end of March, June, September and December. Payment of the 2015 final dividend, if approved, will be  
on 31 March 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 5 February 2016. The associated ex dividend  
date will be 4 February 2016. 
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable 
from our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at the address shown. 
Share Dealing Service 
Our Registrars offer Shareview Dealing, a service which allows you to buy or sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares if you are a  
UK resident. You can deal on the internet or by phone. Log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call them on 03456 037 037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday for more information about this service. If you wish to sell your Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary 
shares, you will need your shareholder reference number which you can find on your share certificate. 
Individual Savings Account 
Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Investment 
Account where they can hold their Imperial Tobacco Group ordinary shares electronically. The ISA and Investment Account are operated  
by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Commission starts from £12.50 and £1.75 respectively for the sale and purchase of shares. 
For a brochure or to apply for an ISA or Investment Account go online to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti on 0345 300 0430.  
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy  
further Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares in the market. Further information can be obtained from Equiniti on 0371 384 2268  
(+44 (0)121 415 7173) or online at www.shareview.co.uk. 
American Depositary Receipt Facility 
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the OTCQX International Premier platform in the form of American Depositary 
Shares (ADSs) using the symbol ‘ITYBY’. Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares. The ADS facility is 
administered by Citibank, N.A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown. 
Website 
Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com 
Equiniti also offers a range of shareholder information online. You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices and 
dividend details and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk  Printed by Park Communications. 
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Inaset Plus Offset, a paper 
containing fibre sourced from well managed, responsible,  
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product is  
bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc. Registered Office
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC
121 Winterstoke Road
Bristol BS3 2LL
UK
www.imperial-tobacco.com
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
