 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
GLOBAL REACH
GLOBAL IMPACT WHAT DOES GLOBAL 
REACH, GLOBAL IMPACT
MEAN TO US?
GLOBAL REACH
Inmarsat was founded on the vision of seamless, 
reliable, globally available communications. 
This focus remains at the heart of our business 
and today with the successful introduction of our 
fastest and most powerful high-speed broadband 
service – Global Xpress – we remain at the 
forefront of global connectivity. Our services 
reach across every continent and every ocean, 
ensuring that wherever our customers are located 
– on land, at sea and in the air – they can be 
assured that Inmarsat is ready and available to 
support their operation. 
Scan the image montage above using the 
Inmarsat App to watch our Global Reach, 
Global Impact video.  GLOBAL IMPACT
For all our customers, reliable connectivity – 
from voice services to high-speed broadband – 
is a crucial enabler. We continually invest in our 
networks and work with a unique community of 
partners to deliver a suite of solutions that are 
specific to each sector. Through this strategy, 
we provide an environment in which ship operators 
can deploy advanced technologies to improve 
efficiency; we bring new opportunities for airlines 
to augment cockpit communications and deliver 
a new era in passenger services. And, across our 
other core sectors, we are delivering globally 
available services tailored to make a real difference.  inmarsat.com
Download the Inmarsat App to experience 
more. Where you see this icon, scan the 
image to view video content.
Get it on:
GOOGLE PLAY
APP STORE
ABOUT
INMARSAT
WHAT’S 
INSIDE
Inmarsat is the world’s leading mobile satellite 
communications company. Our global reach delivers 
connectivity to even the most remote locations on earth. 
Our global impact is felt by businesses, governments and 
individuals who rely on our space-enabled technology to 
meet the rapidly evolving demands of our increasingly 
connected world – on land, at sea or in the air.
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
IFC About Inmarsat
IFC What does Global Reach, Global Impact 
mean to us?
01 Investor proposition
01 Financial highlights
01 Business highlights
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s review
STRATEGY
06 Chief Executive’s review
13 Our key performance indicators
14 Our markets
18 Our business model
20 Our strategy
22 Resources and relationships
Business reviews:
28 Maritime
32 Enterprise
36 Aviation
40 Government
44 Financial review
48 Risk management
GOVERNANCE
52 Board of Directors
55 Report of the Directors
58 Corporate governance report
72 Relations with shareholders
73 Remuneration report 
93 Directors’ responsibility statement
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95 Independent Auditors’ report
100 Consolidated income statement
100 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
101 Consolidated balance sheet 
102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
103 Consolidated cash flow statement
104 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
133 Company financial statements
136 Notes to the Company financial statements
137 Glossary
139 Additional information TOTAL REVENUE ($m)
1,274.1
2013 2014 2015
1,261.9
1,285.9 1,274.1
EBITDA ($m)
726.0
2013 2014 2015
648.8
701.0
726.0
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (¢ ($))
51.39
2013 2014 2015
46.61
48.94
51.39
INVESTOR 
PROPOSITION
FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTS
BUSINESS 
HIGHLIGHTS
SECOND AND THIRD INMARSAT-5 SATELLITES 
SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHED
GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICE INTRODUCTION OF HIGH-SPEED 
MOBILE BROADBAND GLOBAL XPRESS SERVICES
SIGNIFICANT STEPS TAKEN TOWARDS DELIVERING 
TRANSFORMATIONAL AVIATION CONNECTIVITY OPPORTUNITIES 
CONTRACT PLACED FOR TWO DUAL PAYLOAD 
INMARSAT-6 SATELLITES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 01
GLOBAL MOBILE CONNECTIVITY ON LAND, AT SEA AND IN THE AIR.
WE ARE IDEALLY POSITIONED TO SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITIES...
For more than 35 years, Inmarsat has been reliably delivering seamless, resilient and highly secure 
communication services to customers on the move. Our wholly-owned satellites and network uniquely 
provide these services on a seamless global basis.
In global mobile broadband, we have the first and only global mobile Ka-band network, Global Xpress, 
offering a truly seamless high-speed broadband experience – a unique play on the explosive growth in 
broadband demand.
 
In airline passenger connectivity, we are uniquely positioned to seamlessly deliver reliable broadband 
globally and our European Aviation Network will deliver the world’s most consistent and powerful passenger 
broadband experience.
 
These opportunities build upon our leading market position in the highly resilient, lower bandwidth global 
mobile satellite communication services that many customers require.
And through our focused investment in innovation, we will continue to deliver market-winning solutions 
to our customers… much more than capacity and connectivity.
...TO DELIVER VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
We have increased the dividend in each of the last 10 years and have delivered material capital growth 
for our shareholders in 10 years as a public company.
READ MORE
BUSINESS MODEL P18 REVENUE (as % of Group)
51%
SPLIT OF REVENUE* 
(as % of Group)
Maritime
Enterprise
Government
Aviation
51%
14%
24%
11%
* Excluding Central Services revenue
SPLIT OF EBITDA* 
(as % of Group)
Maritime
Enterprise
Government
Aviation
53%
13%
22%
12%
* Excluding Central Services EBITDA
02 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
AT A GLANCE
POWERING GLOBAL CONNECTIVITY
WHO WE ARE 
Inmarsat is the leader in global, mobile satellite communications services. 
Every hour of every day our voice and broadband solutions are deployed by 
governments, commercial enterprises and humanitarian organisations across 
the world. On every continent, across every ocean and in the sky, Inmarsat’s 
wholly-owned and operated satellite constellations are delivering unparalleled 
reliability to support mission-critical communications, ensure safety on land, 
sea and air, drive innovation and bring new economic and social benefits to 
even the most isolated communities. 
OUR CORE VALUES
These are the foundations for how we aspire to behave in every aspect of our 
working life at Inmarsat. Read more on page 23.
 MARKET-DRIVEN
 ENTERPRISING
 OPEN
 PASSIONATE
Powered by our advanced satellite networks and bespoke solutions that can 
optimise a vessel’s entire operation, we offer the most dependable and versatile 
communications solutions to the maritime industry. Our services are secure, 
globally available and helping to drive a revolution in vessel performance, 
safety and crew welfare. From the largest commercial fleets to coastal vessels, 
our services are based on a unique appreciation of the challenges of living and 
working in a maritime environment. 
MARITIME
ACTIVE FLEETBROADBAND VESSELS
2015
41,942
2014
40,469 +4%
REVENUE (as % of Group)
14%
From oil and gas rigs in harsh oceans to utility companies protecting their 
distribution networks, and from journalists broadcasting live from trouble spots 
to humanitarian agencies coordinating relief efforts in disaster zones, Inmarsat 
delivers instant, powerful communications across every environment and on 
every continent. Commercial organisations and humanitarian groups rely on 
Inmarsat to be always there and always available.
ENTERPRISE
ACTIVE M2M TERMINALS
2015
326,090
2014
292,660 +11% REVENUE (as % of Group)
24%
INMARSAT-3 
L-BAND
INMARSAT-4 
L-BAND
INMARSAT-5 
KA-BAND
INMARSAT-5 
KA-BAND
EAN SATELLITE 
S-BAND
INMARSAT-6 
L- AND 
KA-BANDS
Five satellites 
launched 1996-98
Four satellites 
launched 2005-13
Three satellites 
launched 2013-15
F1
F1
F1
F4
F2
F2
F2
F3
F3
F4 (ALPHASA T)
IN FLIGHT
PLANNED
1990
2000
2010
2020
2030
2040
2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 03
OUR LONG-TERM INVESTMENT FOR FUTURE GROWTH 
Inmarsat is a world-leading commercial satellite operator with several hundred years  
of experience among its team of world-class satellite engineers. We have consistently  
flown our satellites beyond their original life expectancy and we have a flawless launch  
record over the last 25 years. 
For decades, Inmarsat has been a trusted partner to the US Government 
and today we support over 100 nations around the world. We augment a 
government’s existing communications networks and ensure that, wherever 
they need to be, our secure, reliable and powerful mobile satellite networks 
are readily available. Through our mission-critical voice, video and data 
communications solutions, we support governments in maintaining their 
security, in ensuring public safety, and in delivering a range of remote health, 
education and other crucial services in regions where high-quality terrestrial 
networks are not available. 
GOVERNMENT
NEW COUNTRIES
NEW TERRITORIES ENTERED SINCE 2012 +32
REVENUE (as % of Group)
11%
From the cockpit to the cabin, Inmarsat is fuelling a new era of innovation for 
commercial airlines and business jet operators. The combination of our globally 
available SwiftBroadband and GX Aviation services, soon to be joined by our 
new European Aviation Network (EAN), which will deliver the world’s most 
powerful passenger connectivity service, means we are the partner of choice 
for airline connectivity across every continent. 
AVIATION
ACTIVE SWIFTBROADBAND SIMS
2015
7 ,200
2014
5,500 +32%
Expected operational life 04 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
FINAL DIVIDEND AND FULL -YEAR DIVIDEND INCREASES
NEW BOARD DIRECTORS BRING NEW PERSPECTIVES
OUR DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS IS RESILIENT
CONTINUED FOCUS ON SAFETY SERVICES
PLANNING FOR THE NEXT PHASE OF GROWTH
CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN NEW SATELLITES AND NETWORKS
CUSTOMER MARKET SEGMENT FOCUS DRIVES INNOVATION
 
2015 OVERVIEW
This, our tenth year as a listed company, has been 
a year of transition, preparation and investment in 
what we firmly believe will be the next phase of 
growth in the global mobile satellite sector. While 
we were disappointed in the delays in the final 
deployment of our new Global Xpress constellation 
and in the continued spending constraints that our 
government, oil and gas and maritime customers 
have experienced in 2015, we were, at the same 
time, quite pleased with the resilience of our 
diversified business and the progress that we’ve 
made in moving our customers to higher bandwidth 
data services overall. In our Aviation business, 
segments of our Government business and with our 
first customers using our new Global Xpress service 
we did well. 
Underpinning all of this is a progression to higher 
bandwidth services which we believe is inevitable. 
It is clear that customers in areas not fully served by 
terrestrial wireless networks still demand the same 
need for broadband connectivity. Our focus remains 
on serving customers in those remote environments 
with uniform global mobile or portable connectivity 
that is highly reliable. The mission-critical applications 
our services are used for have a broad range of 
connectivity requirements, but more and more it is for 
higher bandwidth, lower and more predictable prices, 
smaller and lower cost terminals and high levels 
of reliability.
Reflecting on our tenth year as a listed company, 
we are proud to note for our investors that since 
our IPO in 2005 to the end of December 2015, our 
share price has increased 364%, our dividend has 
had a healthy increase each and every year and 
our total shareholder return (TSR) during this 
period was 584%. This compares with a TSR for the 
FTSE 250 of 217% and 81% for the FTSE 100; and is 
also strongly favourable to our industry indices.
While we are pleased with the returns we’ve been 
able to deliver to our shareholders, we have done 
this alongside both maintaining the quality of 
services that we deliver and investing in the future. 
In the next section Rupert Pearce, our CEO, will 
highlight our performance more broadly in 2015, 
and our plans for 2016 and beyond. He and the 
senior management team continue to innovate 
around their identified business unit needs. The 
most fundamental illustrations of that are our new 
satellite constellations, both Global Xpress and 
the newly announced Inmarsat-6 programme. 
However, a breakthrough in offering enhanced 
European aviation connectivity, at significantly 
increased data speeds, was also announced in the 
form of our new European Aviation Network 
partnership with the leading European telecoms 
firm, Deutsche Telekom. This is an example of an 
extension of our satellite services through a hybrid 
system to more effectively serve our aviation 
customers. We expect to invest more in this rapidly 
growing aviation segment in the years ahead.
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
A YEAR OF STRATEGIC PROGRESS
ANDREW SUKAWATY CHAIRMAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 05
In October we were honoured to 
host a visit by the Chinese 
President, Xi Jinping, to our 
Inmarsat headquarters in 
London. 
PERFORMANCE
In 2015, our Aviation business unit performed 
very strongly and within our government market 
sector, the US Government business also showed 
improvement in the underlying trends. Our 
Maritime business was flat overall and underlying 
revenues in our Enterprise business increased. 
These four market sectors contributed to overall 
Mobile Satellite Services and other revenues of 
$1,185.5m, with the balance of our revenues made 
up of payments received from a collaboration 
agreement with a US operator, LightSquared, 
now called Ligado Networks. With prudent cost 
management and despite a year of significant 
investment in the business in terms of both 
infrastructure and employee training, our level 
of EBITDA was favourable against last year.
This performance has allowed us to continue 
increasing our dividend payments with a 5% 
increase on the final dividend on last year to 
31.78 cents which gave a total dividend for 2015 
of 51.39 cents. This is a 5% increase for the full year 
dividend compared to 2014. We have increased 
our dividends every year since our IPO in 2005.
Rupert and the senior management team have 
managed the Company well through a year of 
transition and significant investment. The Company 
is well positioned in markets on land, at sea and in 
the air – business sectors the market analysts 
expect to grow over the long term. It is not without 
operational and competitive challenges, but we 
think our market-focused approach, along with the 
assets we continue to put in place, will allow us to 
continue to grow profitably in the years ahead.
Thank you to our customers for continuing to rely 
on us, we do not take this for granted. Thank you to 
our entire global workforce for continuing to work 
tirelessly to deliver reliable services. And of course, 
thank you also to our shareholders for your 
continued support for Inmarsat.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
Chairman
3 March 2016
Of course safety services in both maritime and 
aviation remain core to what we do. In both of these 
services we are investing in the next generation and 
enhancements to ensure that seafarers and 
aircraft, flying over oceans and remote areas 
globally, have the benefit of the latest technologies 
to keep them safe.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
During the course of 2015, we also evolved 
our Board membership by bringing on new 
independent members and by the retirement 
of one of our long-time valued members of the 
Board. This process will result in the continued 
independence of our Board and allow for a 
continuity of work along the way. This year we 
were pleased to welcome two new members to 
our Board: Robert Ruijter, who is our new Audit 
Committee Chairman and Dr Hamadoun Touré, 
former Secretary General of the ITU (see their 
biographies on pages 52-54). In addition, we have 
formed a new Committee of the Board, the 
Telecoms Regulatory Committee, which will allow us 
to focus on vital telecoms regulation globally with 
our Directors who have a wealth of experience in 
this highly specialised and relevant geopolitical 
arena for us.
John Rennocks, our Deputy Chairman, decided 
to retire from the Board in November 2015. We 
thank John for his invaluable contributions over 
the years to the success of Inmarsat as a business. 
Dr Abe Peled has stepped into the role of Senior 
Independent Director. In addition, at the start of 
2015 I stepped into the role of Non-Executive 
Chairman. The Corporate governance report on 
pages 58 to 71 summarises the changes that we 
have made to the Board over the course of the 
year and notes our intentions for succession 
planning before the 2017 AGM. A summary of the 
external Board evaluation we recently completed 
is also included in this Report.
In October we were honoured to host a visit by the 
Chinese President, Xi Jinping, to our Inmarsat 
headquarters in London. This was in conjunction 
with his State visit to the UK. After 35 years of 
working closely with our Chinese partners in the 
delivery of emergency services, maritime safety 
services and more commercial services to Chinese 
users, we were pleased to be recognised in this way.
BOARD OVERVIEW
Our Board confirms the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable
We have a majority of independent 
Directors with diverse and 
complementary experience 
and skills
We completed an external Board 
Evaluation review in 2015 with 
positive findings
We created a new Board  
Committee – the Telecoms 
Regulatory Committee
Non-Executive Director 
succession planning remains 
a focus
READ MORE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT P58 06 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
2015 has been a time of concerted effort and 
achievement in a transitional year en-route to 
the establishment of our new global Inmarsat-5 
network, which we expect to help deliver new 
growth prospects and new sector opportunities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INVESTING FOR FUTURE GROWTH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 07
Q. WHAT WOULD YOU DESCRIBE AS THE 
MOST IMPORTANT ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
AT INMARSAT IN 2015?
A. Undoubtedly the highlight of 2015 was the 
successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellite 
constellation to provide global coverage, which we 
brought into commercial service at the end of the 
year. We encountered delays to our launch plans in 
2015, caused by successive Proton launch failures 
prior to our planned launch dates, but we 
eventually launched our second and third 
Inmarsat-5 satellites in February and August 2015, 
respectively. These launches set the stage for us 
to deliver meaningful Global Xpress (GX) service 
revenues in 2016, as we move from a transition 
period into the beginning of what we hope will 
be a substantial transformation in our growth 
through the diversification of our business and the 
introduction of exciting new products and services.
We also delivered good progress in our plans to 
deploy our European Aviation Network (EAN), 
a hybrid, integrated satellite/air-to-ground (ATG) 
network operating in the S-band. This will bring 
high-speed broadband to the European 
commercial and business aviation markets.
In September 2015, we announced a partnership 
with Deutsche Telekom to deliver a pan-European 
ATG network, which will be fully integrated with the 
S-band satellite being built for us by Thales Alenia 
Space. During the year we completed development 
contracts with other core suppliers for the EAN’s 
satellite antenna, ATG antenna and satellite ground 
network. The EAN will operate on an integrated 
basis with our global GX aviation services, to 
provide our customers with the world’s broadest, 
most capable aviation connectivity network. We 
are very encouraged that customer interest in 
these future aviation services remains strong and 
we were delighted that in October 2015 the 
Deutsche Lufthansa Group committed their 
European short-haul fleet (Europe’s largest) to 
our GX services and announced that it intended 
to be the first airline to trial the EAN service when 
it becomes available, expected in 2017. 
In November last year, Singapore Airlines also 
confirmed GX as its preferred service on its global 
A380, A350 and B777 fleets. In 2016, we will move 
into installation of GX for these new customers.
STRATEGIC SUCCESSES
Successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellites to provide global coverage
Creating the pathway to deliver the world’s first superfast mobile broadband network 
from one operator
Good progress to deploy our integrated satellite/air-to-ground European 
Aviation Network
Leading aviation companies commit to deploy our next-generation services
Contracted to two hybrid L -band and Ka-band Inmarsat-6 satellites providing 
services beyond 2030
READ MORE
OUR STRATEGY P20
RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 08 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
There is strong growth potential 
for our machine-to-machine 
services. We will continue to 
innovate in this area in the future.
Our Government activities continue to decline 
year-on-year as a result of materially lower troop 
deployment among our core traditional customers 
and a reduction in government commercial 
satellite expenditure generally. Despite this 
pronounced market slowdown, our Government 
business has outperformed almost all of its 
competitors this year and the fact that our 
business only declined 10% year-over-year 
actually represents a solid performance in 
attritional conditions. Our relative success has 
been founded on a three-pronged strategy to 
diversify our government customer base into 
new verticals, to internationalise by entering 
some eight new geographies in the year and to 
bring new government-centric product and service 
innovation to market. We have also been helped by 
strong early endorsement of our new commercial 
and military GX services by thought-leading 
government customers, which augurs well for 
the future.
Underlying Enterprise revenues grew if you remove 
the effect of the retail energy assets we sold in 
2014. We continue to build momentum for new 
evolutions of our BGAN portable data service and 
our voice service performed well, despite a 
manufacturing issue for our IsatPhone 2 voice 
service which led to a temporary suspension of 
sales in Q3. There is strong growth potential for 
our machine-to-machine (M2M) services, and we 
had an installed base across all M2M product lines 
of 326,000 terminals at the year end. We will 
continue to innovate in this area in the future. 
We remain confident that our strategic partnership 
with RigNet in the energy and resources sector will 
flourish on the back of the launch of GX services 
into this sector in 2016. 
Aviation made excellent progress in 2015 alongside 
the excitement of early GX customer interest for 
passenger connectivity and the strong progress in 
Q. HOW DID THE BUSINESS PERFORM 
AGAINST ITS KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR? 
A. Tony Bates, our CFO, covers the detail of the 
financials and there are financial summaries 
provided for each of the business segments as well. 
I will therefore focus on some key overall comments.
Total Group revenues were flat against last year 
excluding disposals. We were pleased to see growth 
in revenues from our Aviation and Enterprise 
businesses (after adjusting for disposals made 
in 2014). Maritime revenues were little changed, 
with strong growth in our two key products – 
FleetBroadband (FB) and XpressLink, continuing 
to be offset by the expected ongoing decline in the 
non-core legacy maritime product suite.
Looking at each of the business sectors, Maritime 
has delivered on many of its core ambitions with 
continued strong growth in FB subscribers, 
revenues and average revenue per user (ARPU). 
Subscriber growth slowed over the year, due to the 
increased scrappage of older ships and lay-ups of 
younger ships which impacted on growth in new 
installations and accelerated the decline in our 
legacy services on older vessels. We are confident 
of launching new FB services in the near future that 
will begin the process of broadening the maritime 
markets we serve. Similarly, we saw continued 
excellent progress in our XpressLink service (our 
bridging product to GX) serving the maritime VSAT 
markets, and we have now grown a base of over 
2,400 installed ships and an installation backlog of 
ships, which we will begin to migrate to the maritime 
version of our GX service, called Fleet Xpress, in 
2016. We also continue to operate in difficult 
market conditions, with global trade stagnant and 
the merchant maritime sector and Oil and Gas 
market mired in recession. 
Finally, in late December, we entered into a 
contract with Airbus Defence and Space for the 
manufacture of two Inmarsat-6 spacecraft. These 
new satellites will be launched into orbit in the early 
2020s to begin the replacement of the ageing 
Inmarsat-4 satellites. While the principal role of the 
first two Inmarsat-6s therefore will be to maintain 
our existing L -band service revenues, we have also 
taken the opportunity both to modernise and 
develop the Inmarsat-6 L -band payloads, which will 
allow us to upgrade and develop our future L -band 
services, and to add a Ka-band payload on each 
satellite, to provide rich, new GX services to keep 
our GX service offerings in the vanguard of our 
industry during the 2020s. 
There were many other operational achievements 
during the year, but these three network-related 
activities in 2015 undoubtedly set us up well to 
increase our profitable growth rates in the years to 
come and so are particularly important. Of course, 
we can’t talk about achievements in 2015 without 
mentioning the visit of the Chinese President, Xi 
Jinping, to our London headquarters in October. 
We were greatly honoured by the visit of President 
Xi and his welcoming and attending parties, which 
included HRH The Duke of York and senior British 
and Chinese Government ministers. This was a 
chance to reflect on Inmarsat’s more than 35 years 
of trusted engagement with China across many 
sectors, and indeed, we believe that our new GX 
services will continue to build on that close 
cooperation. This was evidenced by us signing 
a MoU with the Chinese organisation CTTIC to 
explore the delivery of GX services together in 
China and the strategic ‘One Belt One Road’ region.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
ALISON HORROCKS
CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER 
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
LEO MONDALE
PRESIDENT, AVIATION BUSINESS UNIT
GREG EWERT
PRESIDENT, ENTERPRISE BUSINESS UNIT
DEBBIE JONES
CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER
RUY PINTO
CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER
MICHELE FRANCI
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
PAT MCDOUGAL
CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER
RONALD SPITHOUT
PRESIDENT, MARITIME BUSINESS UNIT
PETER HADINGER
PRESIDENT, US GOVERNMENT 
BUSINESS UNIT
CHRIS MCLAUGHLIN
CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER
ANDY START
PRESIDENT, GLOBAL GOVERNMENT 
BUSINESS UNIT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 09
We don’t shy away from difficult 
technological challenges as 
they present great business 
opportunities.
commercial services for GX cumulatively by some 
nine months. Fortunately, we had previously put 
in place bridging capabilities in the maritime and 
government sectors and so throughout the delay 
we were able to sell regional GX government 
services as well as XpressLink services to the 
maritime sector, maintaining momentum towards 
the rollout of GX services on a global basis.
Similarly, it has been highly challenging to establish 
the EAN, the world’s first integrated satellite/ATG 
network. The challenges are principally 
technological and regulatory. From a regulatory 
perspective, we need (with the support of national 
authorities and the European Commission) to 
develop a coherent and supportive regulatory 
framework for a hybrid satellite ATG network across 
the 28 member states of the European Union. 
And from a technological perspective we need 
to integrate cutting-edge satellite and ATG 
networks to develop powerful, agile, capable and 
complementary service offerings that can deliver 
high value-added aviation passenger connectivity 
it will opt for under the current Agreement. 
We are preparing to support that outcome so 
that we continue to derive financial value from 
the Agreement which exists between us, and will 
deliver revenues and EBITDA contributions for 
many years, while also ensuring that our own 
services can grow in North America alongside 
the LightSquared business. 
Q. WHAT WERE THE CHALLENGES THIS 
YEAR AND HOW DID THE BUSINESS 
RESPOND? 
A. As a pioneer of new technology in the satellite 
industry, we don’t shy away from difficult 
technological challenges, as they can present 
us with great business opportunities. 
The biggest challenge we faced this year has been 
the completion of the Inmarsat-5/Global Xpress 
programme, an immensely complex challenge that 
we initiated in 2010 when we went under contract 
with Boeing for three Inmarsat-5 satellites. Five 
years later, the programme is nearing completion 
but remains enormously demanding in many 
different areas. GX is the world’s first global 
superfast mobile broadband network and 
associated with such a service revolution are 
immense technological, logistical and operational 
challenges. Many Inmarsat-5 programme 
deliverables remain out of our sole control, which 
means that success demands strong collaboration 
skills, patience and agility from us. I’ve already 
mentioned in another answer the impact of the 
launch delay for two of our Inmarsat-5 satellites 
which pushed back the launch of global 
the EAN that I referred to earlier, delivering 
excellent year-on-year revenue growth, with 
especially strong growth in the business aviation 
services (BAS) sector. Our core Inmarsat-4 data 
service, SwiftBroadband, now represents two-thirds 
of aviation revenues and has become a very 
successful product in the business and general 
aviation sectors, as well as a forerunner of GX 
passenger connectivity services in the commercial 
air transport sector. We also made good progress in 
aviation safety services in 2015, trialling our new 
service platform, SwiftBroadband Safety, on several 
commercial platforms (preparatory to commercial 
service introduction in 2016) and announcing new 
service offerings including free tracking, enhanced 
tracking and ‘black box in the cloud’, which we 
believe will make a major contribution to enhanced 
global aviation safety in the future. Finally, we also 
progressed our potential involvement in future 
European air traffic management (ATM) systems, 
via the IRIS programme in partnership with the 
European Space Agency. 
We are entitled to receive payments from 
LightSquared (a US company) in accordance 
with a Cooperation Agreement with them regarding 
spectrum use over North America. This 
arrangement has been ongoing for some time, 
even while LightSquared was in Chapter 11 
bankruptcy protection; it emerged successfully 
from this process at the end of 2015. During 2015 
we accounted for five payments from LightSquared 
(which we accounted for as ‘other income’). 
We look forward to the end of Q1 2016, when 
LightSquared will decide the amount of spectrum  10 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
In 2016, our Maritime business 
will commence the transition of 
XpressLink to Fleet Xpress and 
execute a fast start to the 
launch of GX services to the 
global maritime segment, while 
maintaining FleetBroadband 
growth and the global launch of 
Fleet One and Fleet Media.
 > Aviation: implement the Deutsche Lufthansa 
and Singapore Airlines programmes and secure 
a number of further launch customers for GX 
aviation services and the EAN, while growing our 
global BAS services and introducing SB Safety.
 > Government: deliver a fast start to global GX 
sales to the US and international government 
customers, while continuing to diversify, 
internationalise and innovate.
 > Enterprise: launch GX services into the energy 
and resources segment on the back of our 
strategic partnership with RigNet, while driving 
our services into the transportation, agriculture, 
M2M, smart cities, e-commerce and new 
media segments.
 > Ensure successful 2016 Inmarsat Developer 
and Global Partner Conferences, extending 
and enriching the ‘Inmarsat ecosystem’ 
 > Reorganise our business to make us faster, easier 
and simpler to do business with, including the 
introduction of improved business processes.
 > Ensure our staff are motivated and empowered 
to deliver the Company’s objectives, and 
supported to achieve this through learning and 
development training opportunities, improved 
processes and systems to be more efficient and 
effective, allowing them to work with our partners 
to achieve success.
The successful execution of these plans will 
transform our business and ensure we are well 
positioned for the future.
 > Launch Inmarsat-5 F4, a satellite initially 
manufactured as a launch spare (to insure 
against a launch failure of one of the first three 
Inmarsat-5s) but which can now be launched to 
provide in-orbit redundancy as well as 
incremental global Ka-band capacity.
 > Complete the manufacture of our S-band 
satellite (to be launched in 2017) and maintain 
the pace of development of the EAN technology 
programmes (and associated European 
regulatory environment) to be on track for full 
service availability of the hybrid, integrated 
satellite/ATG services across Europe by 
mid 2017.
 > Establish the Inmarsat-6 programme with Airbus 
for our next-generation L -band services 
platform and GX evolution pathway. 
 > Operationalise our application and service 
collaboration and delivery platform, Inmarsat 
Gateway, to support our certified application 
partner initiative.
 > Deliver on a number of important product and 
service development initiatives, to maintain 
Inmarsat services at the cutting edge in the 
markets that we serve.
 > Ensure an even greater focus in 2016 on cyber 
security, with an intention to make further strides 
towards being best-in-class in cyber resilience 
and develop cyber-as-a-service capabilities.
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS:
 > Maritime: commence the transition of 
XpressLink to Fleet Xpress (the GX maritime 
service) and execute a fast start to the launch 
of GX services to the global maritime segment, 
while maintaining FB growth and the global 
launch of new maritime services such as Fleet 
One and Fleet Media.
and other aviation services seamlessly across 
the entire European landmass and coastal regions. 
We are meeting these challenges by working very 
closely with the European Commission and 
European telecommunication regulators, and by 
establishing a unique coalition of leading European 
innovators and industry in key geographies.
Q. WHAT ARE YOUR KEY PRIORITIES 
OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS?
A. 2016 is a year in which we aim to complete 
several important infrastructure programmes, 
and commence others, and begin an operational 
transformation that begins to positively impact 
our financial performance. We see it as ‘a year of 
transformation’ because the Inmarsat at the end 
of 2016 will have evolved significantly from the 
Inmarsat of today. Let’s look at what is driving 
this transformation:
INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
In 2016 we plan to:
 > Complete the initial phase of the global launch 
of GX services by launching the many different 
varieties of GX services. We must bed down the 
global end-to-end network and the products 
and services running across it, as well as the 
global service delivery and channel to market 
capabilities that we have put in place in recent 
years. By the end of 2016, our intention is that 
GX is well-established in the marketplace as a 
highly reliable, cutting-edge service with high 
relevance to a diverse range of customers.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED We will continue to invest to 
capture emerging high-growth 
markets, such as aviation 
passenger connectivity. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 11
revenues to an annual run-rate of $500m by the 
end of 2020, five years after we started to provide 
GX services on a global basis.
We are also focusing on how we can increase our 
L -band revenues and were delighted to be able to 
announce an order we placed at the end of 2015 to 
buy two Inmarsat-6 satellites which will offer both 
L -band and Ka-band services. This announcement 
allows our existing L -band users to know that we are 
planning for continuity of service, which will include 
our maritime and aviation safety services, well into 
the 2030s. We are also focused on working with 
key countries, such as Russia, India and China, to 
introduce new infrastructure locally as a condition 
to full market access for our services in 
those countries.
Q. HOW DOES CSR INFLUENCE 
INMARSAT’S BUSINESS MODEL?
A. Inmarsat was born with a CSR mandate for 
maritime safety services and such activities remain 
a natural part of what we do today. Our heritage 
and public service commitment to maritime and 
also aviation safety remain key priorities for us and 
we are making enhancements in how we provide 
safety services to these two core areas of our 
business. Our handheld IsatPhone 2 was updated in 
2015 to include a feature which allows users across 
any spectrum of business to make a safety call. 
Further information and examples of our attitude 
and approach to our responsibility for corporate, 
social and environmental matters can be found on 
our website. Additionally, in the resources and 
relationship section of this document, on pages 
25 and 26, we’ve also highlighted some key areas 
which give us great pride to support and be 
involved with.
Aviation safety programmes include working 
closely with other EU partners as part of a 
programme to promote safety enhancements 
and additionally we have been trialling our 
SwiftBroadband Safety service to very positive 
results ahead of its launch service in 2016.
Q. WHAT ARE THE SIGNIFICANT 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR 2016?
A. We believe that our very significant investment 
in recent years in new, highly innovative 
communications platforms (such as GX, 
Inmarsat Gateway and the EAN) positions us 
powerfully for future profitable growth. We will 
continue to invest in completing these projects, 
in ensuring all our services continue to be in the 
vanguard of innovation and capabilities for the 
markets that they serve, and in making the most 
of our technology leadership to capture maximum 
market share in certain emerging high growth 
markets (for example the aviation passenger 
connectivity and M2M markets).
2016 offers specific opportunities:
 > GX services provide the opportunity to offer new 
services to our existing customer base, as well as 
to diversify our business into new markets that 
were hitherto unavailable to us.
 > The EAN offers the opportunity to establish a 
new business proposition to serve the European 
short-haul aviation segment, and the EU 
element of long-haul traffic, with highly 
innovative and unique aviation passenger 
connectivity and other services.
 > Inmarsat Gateway offers the potential for us to 
develop a high-powered ecosystem of certified 
applications partners delivering innovative, 
tailored and value-added services and solutions 
to our channel partners and end customers over 
our diverse global mobile broadband networks.
Q. WHERE WILL YOU FIND OPPORTUNITIES 
FOR MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM GROWTH?
A. When we made the investment decision in our 
GX Ka-band high-speed broadband programme, 
we did so because we saw a market opportunity 
to expand our business into complementary, 
adjacent markets. We have identified new market 
opportunities to use these higher speed satellite 
services in maritime, government, aviation, media 
and other markets where transferring large data 
volume is part of a customer’s business 
requirements. Our stated ambition is to grow GX 
Q. WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS TO 
ACHIEVING INMARSAT’S STRATEGY?
A. Risk comes hand-in-hand with business 
opportunity. As such we do not regard risk as 
something to be driven out of our business but 
rather as something to be identified and intelligently 
assessed and managed. As such, we operate a 
sophisticated, organisation-wide risk management 
process which is fully integrated into Executive 
Management, Board and Audit Committee meetings 
and discussions. 
Business risk exists throughout our activities and 
ranges from classical ‘black swan’ events such as 
major network outages caused by terrorism or 
another dramatic event, through to systemic 
technology-related risks such as a major cyber 
intrusion or unilateral technology failure (leading 
for example to a total satellite loss), to the normal 
financial, competitive, operational and market risks 
borne by any company operating in the technology 
sector. We have contingency plans in place for 
such events. 
Looking ahead to 2016, our key strategy execution 
risks are as follows:
 > We are in the middle of implementing a number of 
major global technology platforms, including GX, 
the EAN and the Inmarsat Gateway. Delivering 
those platforms on time, to budget and to 
commercial expectations is crucial for our future 
growth and diversification strategy; we have 
established our planning and procedures to 
deliver these platforms.
 > As global mobile broadband trends continue to 
position mobile satellite broadband as an 
important enabler, not only in markets we have 
served in the past but also for new emerging 
opportunities, we see competition intensifying to 
serve those commercial opportunities. This 
makes it important that we can compete 
powerfully for market share and customer loyalty 
through core network and product innovation, 
through the provision of value-added services 
and solutions, and through intimate, agile and 
committed channels to market. 12 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
We are the only authorised Global Maritime 
Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) provider. 
In 2016, we are focused on how we can further 
develop our maritime safety capabilities. We are 
proud to serve seafarers with reliable safety 
systems which are used by them to save lives; our 
Inmarsat C service safety service celebrates its 
25th anniversary in 2016 and remains a vital 
safety service.
A specific example of where we have spent time is 
working with organisations in Nigeria (e-health) 
and Kenya (e-banking) to support local 
communities to become connected to the digital 
age by utilising our BGAN technology to connect 
them with the broader environment. 
Q. ANY FINAL OBSERVATIONS?
A. 2015 was a transitional year for us as we made 
significant operational and strategic progress 
towards delivering the technology platforms which 
we believe will be the springboard for our planned 
future business growth. As we operate our business, 
we are scanning the horizon for risks which we may 
encounter and regularly reviewing our mitigating 
activities so that the business can operate 
efficiently and effectively as we seek to increase 
shareholder value.
We look forward to 2016 as a year of 
transformation, delivering top line growth 
thanks to the first year of revenues from our 
global GX services, alongside continued progress 
in the positioning of our L -band services for 
complementary revenue growth. Underpinning 
these opportunities we will continue our ongoing 
investment in innovation to deliver services and 
products which meet our partners’ needs. 
Our current and future success relies on the 
unfailing commitment of our staff and support of 
our partners to deliver first-class reliable services 
to our customers to meet their mission critical 
communication needs whenever and wherever 
required. I’d therefore like to finish by thanking 
these key stakeholders, our staff and our partners, 
for their terrific skills, efforts and professionalism 
in 2015.
RUPERT PEARCE
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
OUR BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
OUR VISION
To meet the remote and mobile connectivity needs of our customers, giving them what they 
need to connect, reliably, securely and globally.
OUR MISSION
To provide mission-critical communications services to areas where terrestrial systems 
cannot go or are unavailable.
VALUES
Our values make us who we are and determine how we interact with our customers and the 
world at large. They are woven into the fabric of the Company through the people who work for 
us. Our core values help our business operate. Being passionate – this is the fuel that drives us; 
we work to cultivate an open environment for discussion; we encourage innovation and 
ingenuity to be enterprising, and are market-driven to ensure our customer success leads 
to our success.
OUR MARKET
We have a broad portfolio of voice and data services to satisfy our customers’ 
communications requirements, wherever their operations are located. Our services are 
accessed using a variety of devices, from hand-portable satellite phones and remote site 
fixed installations, to vessel, vehicular and airborne mobile terminals, offering different 
performance options to suit their operational needs.
READ MORE
OUR MARKETS P14
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model operates to ensure we maximise the impact of our resources and 
relationships and add value to create benefits for all our stakeholders, with a focus on 
capital growth and increasing dividend returns to our shareholders.
READ MORE
OUR BUSINESS MODEL P18
OUR STRATEGY
To deliver sustained profitable growth through maximising the significant opportunities that 
exist in all our markets through L -band innovation, developing our Ka-band Global Xpress 
services, building out the European Aviation Network business and launching the Inmarsat 
Gateway to support and extend the delivery of our service platforms.
READ MORE
OUR STRATEGY P20
RISK MANAGEMENT
Effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to meet both our short-term and 
longer-term strategic objectives. We manage risk through an overarching risk management 
policy which helps determine our tolerance for risk.
READ MORE
RISK MANAGEMENT P48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 13
FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
MSS REVENUE GROWTH
Definition: Growth in the top line demonstrates 
our ability to grow our customer base and 
increase ARPU. It also helps to maintain 
margins. 
MSS REVENUE GROWTH ($m)
2013 2014 2015
762.4
791.4
832.8
Comments: We had growth in 
FleetBroadband and SwiftBroadband 
services which are key offerings.
EBITDA
Definition: Growth in our EBITDA magnifies the 
impact of revenue growth on the profitability of 
our business. 
EBITDA ($m)
2013 2014 2015
648.8
701.0
726.0
Comments: The mix in our products 
influences our results and we expect this 
to improve as we add revenue from our GX 
services to our owned networks and migrate 
XpressLink services to our network.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
Definition: The ordinary dividend remains 
the primary method of shareholder return. 
Our target is to continue to grow dividends 
each year.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (¢ ($))
2013 2014 2015
46.61
48.94
51.39
Comments: We have increased our dividend 
every year since our IPO in 2005. We have 
an outstanding record of growth.
NON-FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
SATELLITE NETWORK AVAILABILITY
Definition: Ensuring our network is available 
and reliable is essential.
INMARSAT-4 SATELLITE AND NETWORK AVAILABILITY
2013 2014 2015
99.9+% 99.9+% 99.9+%
Comments: Our network service availability 
is critical and we must ensure this level 
remains high as this affects our brand and 
reputation if we cannot offer a reliable 
service to our customers.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Definition: We want our staff to be empowered 
and engaged. We undertake staff surveys and 
a key measure of employee engagement is how 
employees feel proud to work at Inmarsat. Our 
goal here is to be in the top quartile position. 
BEING PROUD TO WORK AT INMARSAT
2014 (full survey) 2015 (pulse survey)
82% 85%
Comments: Our employee engagement 
scoring reflects high participation and 
strong engagement by staff.
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SATELLITE OPERATORS’ MARKET BY REGION, 
BASED ON WHOLESALE REVENUE, GLOBALLY, 2014
North America
Europe
Latin America
Middle East & Africa
25%
25%
11%
18%
Asia & Oceania 21%
Source: Euroconsult 2015
SATELLITE OPERATORS’ MARKET SHARES, 
BASED ON WHOLESALE REVENUE, GLOBALLY, 2014
SES
Eutelsat
Intelsat
Inmarsat
19%
13%
18%
6%
Telesat 5%
JSAT 4%
Other 35%
Source: Euroconsult 2015
14 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The fast-growing demand for 
communications globally is a 
key driver of commercial satellite 
services revenue growth. 
OUR MARKETS
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
Inmarsat is one of the world’s leading 
satellite operators.
According to Euroconsult, in 2014 around 50% of 
the industry’s revenues are made up by the three 
leading fixed satellite services (FSS) operators: 
SES, Intelsat and Eutelsat.
Inmarsat is estimated to hold a 6% share of the 
global operators’ market. With a history of providing 
safety services at sea, our key differentiators are our 
focus on global coverage and mobile applications. 
Our ability to deliver seamless, reliable, resilient 
and secure communications on the move remain 
crucial to our customers. Inmarsat also has a fully 
integrated operating and business model, see 
page 18, with both ownership and control of 
dedicated infrastructure assets: mainly satellites, 
but also ground infrastructure and a hybrid 
terrestrial/satellite European Aviation Network 
(S-band), and also significant services and 
distribution capabilities.
35% of the industry’s revenues are held by 
an increasing number of regional or national 
operators, focusing on specific geographies 
or vertical markets.
OVERALL MARKET, COMPETITIVE 
ENVIRONMENT AND TRENDS
THE COMMERCIAL SATELLITE 
SERVICES INDUSTRY
Inmarsat operates in the global commercial 
satellite communication services industry, 
with a core positioning as a satellite operator.
Satellite communication operators typically 
own a fleet of satellites, operate them as a 
communications network, and commercialise it, 
mainly to satellite communication service 
providers worldwide.
There are essentially two main categories of 
satellite operators:
 > Mobile satellite services (MSS) operators, 
Inmarsat being one of them, which typically 
operate in L or S frequency bands, and focus on 
data and voice communications for mobility, 
corporate and governmental markets. 
 > Fixed satellite services (FSS) operators, which 
typically operate in Ku- and C -bands, and focus 
on video and data communications for media, 
telecoms, corporate and governmental markets.
There is an increasing overlap between MSS and 
FSS providers through the progressive adoption 
by both types of operator of high throughput 
satellite (HTS) technology, particularly suited for 
broadband data communications across markets. 
Inmarsat has adopted this technology for its 
Ka-band Global Xpress constellation.
The fast-growing demand for communications 
globally, especially for broadband applications, 
is a key driver of commercial satellite services 
revenue growth.
According to Euroconsult (www.euroconsult.eu.com), 
satellite operators generated $13.2bn wholesale 
revenues globally in 2014, expected to grow by over 
3% pa over the next 10 years. North America and 
Europe each represent a quarter of the global 
industry’s revenues. GLOBAL MOBILE DEVICES AND CONNECTIONS 
GROWTH (billions of devices)
Figures in parentheses refer to 2014, 2019 device share.
Source: Cisco VNI Mobile, 2015
2015 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019
Other portable devices
Smartphones
Laptops
Tablets
(0.2%, 0.2%)
(29%, 40%)
(3%, 2%)
(1%, 3%)
M2M (7%, 28%)
Non-smartphones (61%, 27%)
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
GLOBAL MOBILE DATA TRAFFIC
(Exabytes per month)
Source: Cisco VNI Mobile, 2015
2015 2014 2016 2017
4.2
2.5
6.8
10.7
2018
16.1
2019
24.3
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 15
MARKET TRENDS
Solid growth drivers of demand for mobile 
communication services globally
The number of mobile internet connections 
continues to rise globally: personal devices and 
machine-to-machine (M2M) connections are 
expected to exceed 11.5 billion by 2019 and be 
1.5 times greater than the world’s population 
(source: Cisco VNI Mobile Report, 2015).
These devices are being served by an 
exponentially-growing number of solutions, 
services and capabilities, increasingly hosted 
remotely, often in the cloud.
Both devices and applications are driving 
tremendous growth in mobile data traffic, 
estimated by Cisco to be an increase of 57% pa 
by 2019.
Materialisation of this demand growth 
across mobile satellite communication 
services markets
Maritime: The 67,000 vessels in the global 
merchant maritime fleet are fast becoming floating 
nodes on corporate networks and the 2.5 million 
crew members serving on those ships are 
increasingly demanding to be connected with 
satellite broadband.
Aviation: The 25,000 commercial aircraft 
currently flying are entering a new era of safety 
and greener operations via satellite broadband 
connectivity and the hundreds of millions of 
passengers who fly on them each year are 
increasingly demanding to be connected while 
they travel.
Enterprise: The ’Internet of Everything’ is 
demanding to become the ‘Internet of Everywhere’, 
and the energy, resources, media, aid, transport 
and logistics sectors are increasingly adopting 
richer, greener and more efficient working practices 
via broadband connectivity.
Government: Government and military users are 
at the forefront of all these trends, requiring highly 
reliable and secure, ubiquitous global connectivity 
wherever they go. Even when governments may 
decide to launch their own satellites, they will often 
want to use the services of a global operator. This is 
not just for their strategic and tactical activities, 
but also for the morale, welfare and recreation of 
their personnel, who have grown up in a fully-
connected environment, and expect that to be 
supported in their workplace.
Increasing integration with terrestrial networks 
and ecosystems
In a world increasingly reliant on coverage and 
connectivity to perform mission-critical tasks via 
applications and solutions in the cloud or a VPN, 
mobile satellite communication services can offer 
a powerful complementary capability to terrestrial 
networks, delivering a complete package to end 
users, and providing high levels of resilience. 
Although the reach of terrestrial networks has 
extended geographically, working seamlessly with 
a global satellite operator provides them with the 
end-to-end services they need. In this context, 
cybersecurity is a key priority of the industry at all 
levels of its operations and in the services provided 
to customers.
The closer integration of satellite with broader 
information and communication ecosystems 
will also lead to an increasing importance of 
value-added services and new business models 
in the industry.
Increasing HTS technology adoption and 
material impacts expected on the industry
Leading satellite operators are progressively 
adopting high throughput satellite 
(HTS) technology.
HTS technology changes the cost structure of 
satellite connectivity, by considerably increasing 
the capacity available, and lowering the average 
cost per bit. This is creating new business 
opportunities, and having a significant impact 
on the economics of satellite operators.
A significant number of HTS programmes are being 
launched or announced by operators, and this 
could lead to an unprecedented step-change in the 
volume of capacity available in many geographies 
over the coming years. This is expected to create 
many new market opportunities, but may also alter 
the balance between supply and demand.
In mobile satellite communication services 
markets, HTS technology adoption may also lead 
to increasing competition, especially from FSS 
operators increasingly leveraging this technology 
to address mobility segments of the market.
High throughput satellite 
technology changes the cost 
structure of satellite 
connectivity, and also creates 
new business opportunities. US$2.0bn
30%
MARITIME RETAIL REVENUE, 
GLOBALLY, 2014
Source: NSR 2015, Maritime satcom 
markets, total retail revenue
of which Inmarsat 2015 revenues 
reflect a market share of:
US$1.2bn
14%
ENTERPRISE RETAIL REVENUE, 
GLOBALLY, 2014 
Source: NSR 2015, Land mobile and SNG
via satellite, total retail revenue
of which Inmarsat 2015 revenues 
reflect a market share of:
16 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
OUR MARKETS  
CONTINUED
MARKET VERTICALS
ENTERPRISE
PROVISION OF LOW 
DATA-RATE, VOICE 
AND BROADBAND 
COMMUNICATIONS FOR 
A RANGE OF CORPORATE 
VERTICAL MARKETS
MAIN ADDRESSABLE 
MARKET SEGMENTS:
 > Resources: Energy, mining and 
utilities companies
 > Transportation and logistics: 
Mostly for M2M communications
 > Media and aid: Specific, occasional, 
limited-duration communications
 
MARKET GROWTH DYNAMICS 
AND DRIVERS:
Market growth driven by:
 > Increasing penetration, especially 
of sensors for M2M 
communications
 > Increasing data rates, for 
broadband applications
OUTLOOK:
 > Expand into new markets and 
verticals with key distributors
 > Build profitable growth through 
product innovation, leveraging 
refocused L -band network and 
new GX network
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
 > M2M revenues increased by 14% 
over 2014-15
 > Enterprise FleetBroadband 
revenues increased by 49% over 
2014-15
MARITIME
PROVISION OF VOICE, 
BROADBAND DATA AND 
SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS 
FOR ALL VESSEL SIZES
MAIN ADDRESSABLE 
MARKET SEGMENTS
(1)
:
 > Merchant shipping: 67,000 
vessels
 > Large fishing: 46,000 vessels
 > Offshore supply: 10,900 vessels
 > Small fishing: 324,000 vessels
 > Leisure: 233,000 vessels
 
MARKET GROWTH DYNAMICS 
AND DRIVERS:
Steady market growth driven by:
 > Increasing need for data for 
operations and crew welfare
 > Increasing regulatory requirements
 > Demand for new products and 
applications
OUTLOOK:
 > Optimise value (FleetBroadband, 
XpressLink, Fleet Xpress)
 > Develop volume (Fleet One, 
FleetPhone)
 > Develop new streams of revenue 
with applications (Inmarsat 
Gateway, Fleet Media)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
 > 42,000 vessels using 
FleetBroadband
 > 18% growth in FleetBroadband 
revenue in 2015
 > 2,500 vessels using XpressLink
(1) Euroconsult 2015. US$1.2bn
8%
AVIATION RETAIL REVENUE, 
GLOBALLY, 2014
of which Inmarsat 2015 revenues 
reflect a market share of:
Source: NSR 2015, Aeronautical satcom 
markets, total retail revenue
US$3.7bn
9%
GOVERNMENT RETAIL REVENUE, 
GLOBALLY, 2014 
Source: NSR 2015, government and military 
satellite communications, total retail revenue
of which Inmarsat 2015 revenues 
reflect a market share of:
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 17
AVIATION
PROVISION OF DATA, VOICE, 
SAFETY AND BROADBAND 
COMMUNICATIONS FOR ALL 
AIRCRAFT TYPES
MAIN ADDRESSABLE 
MARKET SEGMENTS:
 > Business jets: 20,000 aircraft
 > Commercial aviation transport: 
25,000 aircraft
 > Safety and operations: 
Commercial aircraft mainly, 
for air-to-ground cockpit 
communications 
MARKET GROWTH DYNAMICS 
AND DRIVERS:
High market growth driven by:
 > Strong increase of penetration, 
especially for commercial aircraft 
cabin communications
 > Demand for higher data rates, 
especially for internet access 
on board
 > Increasing aircraft fleets and 
volume of passengers
 > Increasing regulatory 
requirements, particularly for 
safety services
OUTLOOK:
 > Maintain leadership position 
in Safety and operations 
(SwiftBroadband and Classic Aero)
 > Strong growth from broadband 
services business for commercial 
aircraft and business jets (GX and 
European Aviation Network)
 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
 > Aviation revenues increased by 
25% over 2014-15
 > 7,700 Classic Aero SIMs for cockpit 
communications, growing by over 
9% over 2014-15
 > 7,200 SwiftBroadband SIMs for 
cabin connectivity
 > 10-year contract signed with 
Lufthansa to provide high-speed 
connectivity 
 
GOVERNMENT
PROVISION OF 
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES 
FOR GOVERNMENTAL, 
MILITARY AND CIVIL 
APPLICATIONS
MAIN ADDRESSABLE 
MARKET SEGMENTS:
 > Military applications of the US 
Government (still the single 
largest driver of global demand) 
and other governments worldwide
 > Civil government applications: 
Inter-governmental organisations, 
emergency services, coast guard, 
border security, state-owned 
utilities, election delivery and 
monitoring
MARKET GROWTH DYNAMICS 
AND DRIVERS:
Fluctuating market growth driven by:
 > Governments’ budgets, 
programmes and 
commercial spend
 > Increasing demand from 
bandwidth-hungry applications, 
eg intelligence, surveillance, 
reconnaissance (ISR), 
special forces
OUTLOOK:
 > Grow L -band business through 
expansion into new countries and 
adjacent markets, and product 
innovation
 > Build strong Ka-band business 
with GX products, and with 
Milsatcom augmentation strategy, 
leveraging GX compatibility with 
government-owned systems 
(eg US Government’s WGS) 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:
 > Inmarsat remains the largest 
provider of mobile satellite 
services to the US Government
 > Inmarsat providing services to 
over 70 countries for government 
and military applications 18 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Communities: Our maritime heritage is a key 
reminder to us of how we have supported mariners 
and the wider maritime community for over 
36 years and we remain focused on doing so in the 
future. In addition we also promote safety services 
to the aviation industry. We have a strong public 
service responsibility which has been part of our 
heritage and which we remain proud to continue 
to pursue.
Employees: We are committed to ensuring 
diversity among our employees. We have well 
established values and qualities which operate 
throughout the business and we have a policy of 
promoting employees internally where possible.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS
Shareholders and bondholders: We have 
increased the dividend in each of the last 10 years 
and have delivered material capital growth for 
our shareholders in 10 years as a public company. 
We also have a strong track record of continued 
delivery on our commitments with bondholders.
Partners and customers: We focus on the key 
drivers of value for our partners and customers 
such as security, reliability and seamless delivery 
with truly global coverage and mobility.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model operates to ensure we 
maximise the impact of our resources and 
relationships and add value to create benefits 
for all our stakeholders, with a focus on capital 
growth and increasing dividend returns to 
our shareholders. 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
CREATING VALUE FOR ALL 
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS
RESOURCES
SHAREHOLDERS AND 
BONDHOLDERS
OUR PARTNERS
COMMUNITIES
OUR SATELLITE AND 
GROUND NETWORKS
PARTNERS AND 
CUSTOMERS
OUR TECHNOLOGY
EMPLOYEES
OUR PEOPLE AND 
VALUES
OUR FINANCIAL RESOURCES
MARITIME ENTERPRISE AVIATION US GOVERNMENT GLOBAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 19
We focus on the key drivers 
of value for our partners and 
customers such as security, 
reliability and seamless delivery 
with truly global coverage 
and mobility.
DELIVERED THROUGH EXCELLENCE 
Our business unit structure ensures we remain 
focused on the needs of our maritime, government 
enterprise and aviation customers and continue to 
innovate to deliver communications products, 
services and solutions that meet their evolving 
remote and mobile connectivity needs.
Knowing what our customers want is important for 
us to ensure we innovate to produce services and 
products which are required and will be fit for 
purpose, as defined by our users.
OUR ACTIVITIES SUPPORT OUR 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
We must build upon our leading market position in 
the highly resilient, lower bandwidth global mobile 
satellite communication services that many 
customers require.
In particular we have significant opportunities in 
global mobile broadband. We are the first and the 
only truly global mobile broadband network offered 
by a single operator. We have a unique play on the 
explosive growth in broadband demand. And in 
airline passenger connectivity, we are uniquely 
positioned through our single operator capability 
to deliver reliable broadband globally; while our 
European Aviation Network (under construction) 
will be able to deliver the world’s most consistent 
and powerful passenger broadband experience.
We are developing a solutions ecosystem through 
our Inmarsat Gateway, a way of leveraging the 
developer community to deliver end-to-end 
applications and services for our customers that 
move them beyond a simple capacity and 
connectivity-based solution to unleash the value 
our capability brings to their businesses.
Finally, we will constantly focus on improving our 
operational efficiency to deliver profitable revenue 
growth and associated value creation for 
the business.
USING OUR MULTIPLE RESOURCES
Our partners: We have strong relationships with 
all our partners, from suppliers to distributors, 
to strengthen our service offering.
Our technology: We continue to invest in 
innovation to deliver market-winning solutions 
to our customers, and we offer much more than 
capacity and connectivity. We continue to invest 
to differentiate our propositions from those of 
our peers.
Our satellite and ground networks: We have the 
world’s first truly global mobile broadband network 
in the form of our Global Xpress constellation 
and are developing a unique European Aviation 
Network to deliver the world’s best passenger 
broadband experience in Europe. These new 
networks supplement our market-leading position 
in the highly resilient lower bandwidth global mobile 
satellite communication services.
Our people and values: We continue to ensure 
we have the right people with the individual skills, 
competencies and experience who can create 
value and deliver our business objectives. Our 
corporate values are embedded such that all our 
employees understand that much of our success 
as a business depends on how they interpret these 
values. They are being passionate, open, 
enterprising and market-driven.
Our financial resources: Inmarsat’s balance sheet 
strength and debt capacity allow us to support the 
necessary organic and inorganic investment to 
deliver our strategy.
READ MORE
OUR STRATEGY P20
READ MORE
RISK MANAGEMENT P48 20 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
1.  L-band growth
Our L -band platform (using the Inmarsat-4 
satellites) delivers agile, global mobile broadband 
capabilities to small form-factor, low-cost highly 
portable devices.
2.  Growth and diversity via GX
Our Ka-band platform (using the Inmarsat-5 
satellites to deliver GX services) complements the 
L -band platform by delivering ultra-high 
throughput and capacity, global mobile broadband 
to larger and more complex product platforms. 
3. Growth and diversity via S-band
 Our European Aviation Network enlarges our 
connectivity platform for aviation passengers to 
deliver the world’s most consistent and powerful 
passenger broadband experience via a compelling 
and complementary technology.
4.  Creation of a solutions ecosystem 
To support and extend the delivery of these service 
platforms, Inmarsat Gateway will provide a powerful 
applications enabler to ensure a high-quality and 
seamless customer solutions experience.
These four platforms are complementary and can 
be combined to create unique and sustainable 
competitive advantages. These factors will help 
Inmarsat to deliver sustained profitable growth and 
deliver benefits to all its stakeholders.
 > dramatic growth in connected devices and 
sensors to support those applications in a 
mobile environment; and
 > exponential growth in global mobile data traffic 
fuelled by the first two trends.
We are able to compete effectively in this 
environment due to several key differentiators that 
distinguish our proposition from those of our peers:
 > global coverage to meet the needs for ubiquity;
 > mobility for an untethered user base;
 > high-speed services to meet end-
user expectations;
 > high levels of network capacity to deliver 
low-cost communications services;
 > high reliability and security to support 
mission-critical applications; and
 > solution-friendliness and simplicity to facilitate 
integration and applications compatibility.
These differentiators enable us to address the 
significant growth opportunities within existing 
and new communities.
Our strategy is built around the complementarity 
of our four platforms: 
CONTINUED PURSUIT OF OUR STRATEGY 
Inmarsat provides global mobile connectivity on 
land, at sea and in the air. Our vision is to meet the 
remote and mobile connectivity needs of our 
customers, giving them what they need to connect 
– reliably, securely and globally.
In support of this vision, Inmarsat continues to 
pursue a clear and consistent strategy to deliver 
sustained profitable growth through maximising 
the significant opportunities that exist in all 
our markets.
Each key market community has a critical need for 
our range of services across multiple applications:
 > Maritime: from safety services to 
smart shipping;
 > Enterprise: from M2M to smart energy;
 > Aviation: from safety services to 
passenger connectivity;
 > Government: from intelligence, 
surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) 
to government augmentation.
And demand is increasing in all of our markets, 
driven by three major factors:
 > dramatic growth in applications and solutions 
(many of them now in the cloud);
OUR STRATEGY
A FOCUSED STRATEGY 
DELIVERING RESULTS
MULTIPLE CONNECTIVITY OFFERINGS TO MEET CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS STRATEGY OBJECTIVES PROGRESS FUTURE PRIORITIES
1
L-BAND GROWTH
 > Grow the value of our core markets
 > Innovate to expand beyond our 
core markets
 > Extend our geographical footprint
 > Strong growth of FleetBroadband: 18% 
revenue growth in 2015
 > Market expansion through product-
specific initiatives, innovation and new 
value propositions, eg Fleet One (leisure 
and fishing), IsatPhone (handheld voice), 
IDP and BGAN M2M
 > New L -band ground infrastructure in China, 
Russia and India, giving access to very 
sizeable markets
 > Innovate to expand beyond our core markets
 > Refocus L -band offering on markets 
and service areas providing a sustainable 
competitive advantage
 > Extend Government and Enterprise 
businesses into identified new countries 
and verticals
 > Prepare Inmarsat-6, with the first satellite 
expected to be launched in 2020, to 
enable L -band (and Ka-band) growth
2
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY 
VIA GX
 > Grow new superfast broadband 
MSS services
 > Diversify into large and growing 
adjacent markets
 > GX global commercial service 
introduction in December 2015
 > Value-added reseller agreements for 
GX signed with key distribution partners
 > Focus GX offering on broadband and 
VSAT demand across maritime, aviation, 
government and enterprise markets
 > Launch arrangement for our fourth GX 
satellite (Inmarsat-5 F4)
3
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY 
VIA S-BAND
 > Create a major business growth 
opportunity, geographically-focused, 
and in line with our global aviation 
sector strategy
 > Provide a powerful complement to our 
Global Xpress capabilities
 > S-band network’s core infrastructure 
elements all under contract, including 
a partnership with Deutsche Telekom 
to supply and manage the ground 
network component
 > Significant progress made on retiring 
regulatory risk through licensing 
agreements; we now have 28 satellite 
and 18 ground licenses
 > Complete construction of the S-band 
satellite, to be launched in 2017
 > Complete regulatory programme for 
CGC licenses
4
CREATION OF A SOLUTIONS 
ECOSYSTEM
 > Tightly integrate our network with the 
applications and solutions that deliver 
value to our customers and partners
 > Create new revenue streams and 
business models
 > Inmarsat Gateway offers value-added 
services via a network-agnostic platform 
developed in partnership with Cisco
 > Launched certified applications partner 
(CAP) programme
 > Attracted 20 third-party companies in 
2015 to offer innovative, tailor-made 
communications solutions that bring 
genuine business benefits for customers
 > Inmarsat Gateway commercial launch 
planned for H1 2016
 > Continue to develop a large and diverse 
community of certified applications 
partners
 > Offer applications, solutions and services 
across our network platforms 
 > Strengthen cybersecurity capabilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 21
STRATEGIC ROADMAP TO DELIVER PROFITABLE GROWTH
4
 Inmarsat Gateway
 Delivering value-added solutions for customers
1
 L-BAND
 Inmarsat-4
3
 S-BAND
 European Aviation Network
  Hybrid network for passenger 
connectivity
2
 KA-BAND
 Inmarsat-5 
 Global Xpress
Capacity Capacity
Safety Resiliency Coverage 22 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS
OUR CONTINUED  
COMMITMENT
At Inmarsat, we take pride in effectively harnessing our 
resources, both on the ground and in space, and in 
fostering relationships that deliver a positive impact on 
businesses and communities across the globe. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 23
We are well above the 
telecommunications’ sector 
benchmark norm for employees 
feeling proud to work at 
Inmarsat. 
policy can be found on our website. As part of 
our commitment to preventing bribery and 
establishing a culture that does not tolerate 
corruption wherever and in whatever form it may 
be encountered, we ask our Directors, employees 
and contractors to confirm annually that they 
understand the restrictions outlined in the policy 
and the implications for breaching the policy for 
the business and them as individuals. Our 
anti-bribery policy operates in line with guidance 
provided by the UK Ministry of Justice and 
complies with current legislation. The policy 
also incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts 
and accepting and giving hospitality. 
We have separate policies in place dealing with 
ethics, fraud, the use of inside information and 
whistleblowing. Directors, employees and 
contractors are asked once a year to confirm 
that they understand these policies and how 
they are applied.
We have a worldwide anonymous telephone 
service for employees to use if they have any 
concerns. In the last year, the external provider 
received one enquiry call.
VALUES
We have Inmarsat values and qualities which 
operate throughout the business. These are part 
of the induction process for our employees and are 
covered too as part of our induction process for 
Directors, including our Non-Executive Directors. 
Our values drive how we operate in the business 
and are Passion, Openness, being Enterprising 
and Market-driven. Our focus is how people reflect 
these values in dealing with each other as 
colleagues and any third party. We have Inmarsat 
qualities that are the behaviours by which we 
demonstrate our core values, and are one of the 
ways in which individual performance is assessed. 
These behaviours are grouped into: Efficiency, 
Customer Excellence, Enterprise Spirit, Open 
Communication, Values-based Leadership and 
Innovation. The ways we demonstrate the Inmarsat 
qualities contribute to reward generally, whether 
through bonus awards or promotion opportunities.
DIVERSITY OF EMPLOYEE BASE AND 
NON-DISCRIMINATION
We do not tolerate discrimination in any form – 
race, gender, age, culture, disability – against our 
employees, either from other employees or third 
The activities identified following the 2014 staff 
survey have had considerable focus during 2015 
as noted below:
 > Communications: Investment in a new intranet 
that is scheduled to go live in 2016 will improve 
the opportunities for our global staff to share 
information more easily and deepen their 
understanding about our entire business. 
 > Performance and reward: Our benchmarking 
process continued to improve during 2015. We 
put in place an updated annual bonus plan 
whereby all employees in the plan have some 
element of bonus linked to Inmarsat plc results, 
to encourage teamwork and collaboration. 
 > Staff learning and development: A significant 
investment was made to an ongoing, Group-
wide training programme for managers, 
equipping them with leadership and coaching 
skills. We called these employee workshops 
‘Lead the Way’ and believe they will empower 
managers in their daily roles and help them 
develop their teams to fulfil their potential. 
Phase two is now underway as ‘Lead the Way 
Mastery’.
 > Leadership: There has been a dedicated 
programme of leadership skills training for the 
Executive Management Team and the Global 
Leadership Team.
 > Systems and processes: We now have a OneIT 
project which is responsible for reviewing, 
streamlining and improving all systems and 
processes across the business for the benefit 
of all stakeholders.
 > Resources: We have seen a considerable 
number of staff join Inmarsat in 2015 to support 
growth plans for the business – 337 in total. 
Additionally, we promoted internally for 
92 positions. 
CODE OF CONDUCT
Our Code of Ethics (our Code) requires that 
Directors, officers and employees conduct 
business in accordance with the highest standards 
of personal and professional integrity. A copy of 
our Code is published on our website.
We comply with local laws where we operate, and 
across our Group we ensure our employees comply 
with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act. A summary of our anti-bribery 
OUR PEOPLE
Building our culture at Inmarsat continues to be 
a priority and each year we focus on different 
aspects of that: 2014 was our Year of Engagement, 
2015 was our Year of Enablement and 2016 will be 
our Year of Effectiveness. These themes have 
driven how we review our learning and development 
planning for all employees and have contributed 
to how we consider our overall employee 
environment. This includes a focus on alignment 
across our global business for how we operate as 
colleagues, a renewal of the Inmarsat qualities 
which relate to our behaviours at work and we have 
also put in place a roadmap to ensure consistency 
across the Group for job levels and compensation. 
The following sections cover some key areas of 
focus in building our culture.
STAFF SURVEY 
We regularly poll our global staff members to 
ensure they have the opportunity to share their 
views and feedback to the management team as 
to where we are doing well and any areas of 
concern. The last in-depth survey was conducted 
in 2014, garnering a 94% response rate, which our 
advisers, Hay Group, said exceeded the average 
they would generally see for similar workforces 
(82%). We followed-up in 2015 with a ‘Pulse 
Survey’ to assess the response to progress 
made on the areas raised for review. Again, 
we had a very strong response rate of over 75%, 
from our highly-engaged global workforce. 
Positive scores were achieved on many 
important fronts. Inmarsat is well above the 
telecommunications’ sector benchmark norm for 
employees feeling proud to work at Inmarsat and 
they feel supported in achieving a work-life 
balance. Positive scores were also received in 
areas of pay and benefits and confidence in the 
leadership of the business. Areas highlighted 
for continued focus are the need to:
 > find additional ways to communicate across 
a global business;
 > seek opportunities to recognise and reward 
good performance or manage it appropriately;
 > encourage greater discussion about career 
development; and 
 > put in place improved work processes and work 
flows to help deliver objectives. 24 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS
CONTINUED
managers) benefited from manager training, whilst 
three Global Leadership Team meetings, attended 
by approximately 50 global senior managers, 
focused on leadership skills. Individual job-related 
training continued to be provided to meet the 
needs of the business. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update 
on health and safety activity across the Group. 
Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been identified as having 
responsibility for health and safety issues within the 
Group. We have a dedicated Health and Safety 
Manager who is located in our headquarters office 
and our subsidiary operations have identified 
managers responsible for health and safety across 
their operations. 
Our goal is to encourage strong leadership in 
championing the importance of, and a common-
sense approach to health and safety in the 
workplace. We recognise the need to provide a safe 
working environment for our employees, contractors 
and any visitors. Regular health and safety audits 
are undertaken at key operating sites. Across the 
Group, we had 13 (2014: 15) accidents or near misses 
reported, and again we had no fatalities. 
During the year we undertook the following 
occupational health activities: 
 > Cancer awareness programme across 
many of our offices.
 > A ‘Backs2015’ initiative to encourage staff 
to check their posture. 
 > We extended our Annual Health and Wellbeing 
Day to become a week of activities across our 
global offices. 
 > We introduced an online management software 
tool for reporting and recording incidents. 
The percentage of females on the Executive 
Management Board and wider number of senior 
managers represent the definition as set out in the 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 
(BIS) requirements. The percentages set out in the 
table are in line with those disclosed last year.
STAFF FORUMS
We have elected employee forums in the UK 
and Batam in Indonesia, a Works Council in the 
Netherlands and an Enterprise Agreement in Perth, 
Australia. During 2015 we held international staff 
forum meetings which included our elected UK 
Staff Reps plus HR representatives from our global 
operations discussing comments and questions 
from their colleagues. These groups extend 
two-way open communications between 
employees and management and allow the views 
of employees to be taken into account in making 
decisions which may affect their interests. In the 
UK, the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted 
in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide 
the formal means of consultation on contractual 
matters, as and when required. In other countries, 
these bodies are constituted according to 
local requirements.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
We have a policy of promoting employees 
internally where possible. Where it makes sense 
for the business and the individual’s personal 
development and career enhancement, we will 
consider moving employees to different office 
locations. We have established policies which 
address key corporate objectives in the 
management of employee relations, 
communications and employee involvement, 
training and personal development and equal 
opportunities. Employees are supported in their 
career development through an annual appraisal 
scheme, and training is provided to support this. 
During 2015, we provided many different levels of 
training. Around 300 managers (80% of 
parties. There are anonymous helplines and email 
addresses an employee can use if they experience 
or see such activity, and employees are also 
encouraged to speak directly to their manager. 
When recruiting, we value diversity in its broadest 
definition and work to provide opportunities for all, 
including for disabled employees reviewing the 
requirements of their working environment to 
accommodate practical changes as far as possible 
to allow them to continue in their daily work routine. 
If such changes were unrealistic to implement, we 
would review alternative employment options for 
the individual within the Group. 
We are very proud that we have continued to 
have 65 different nationalities within the Inmarsat 
Group. This breadth of employee culture and 
experience supports our Global Reach, Global 
Impact theme as everyone is a contributor to our 
business operations.
We recognise the importance of diversity amongst 
our employees and are committed to ensuring that 
employees are selected and promoted on the basis 
of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, 
religion, sexual orientation or disability. The gender 
split across the Group (including contingency 
workers) as at February 2016 is illustrated in the 
table below:
Inmarsat plc
Female Male
No. % No. %
Board 2 17% 10 83%
Executive 
Management 
Board 2 18% 9 82%
Senior 
managers 28 15% 164 85%
All employees 
(including 
contingency 
workers) 559 30% 1,305 70% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 25
Inmarsat’s 99.9% satellite and 
ground network availability is 
key to saving lives at sea.
We will be including a statement in our 2016 Annual 
Report on the Transparency in Supply Chain clause 
of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 regarding slavery 
and human trafficking. 
MEETING OUR PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY
Our website provides considerable information 
about how we connect with organisations, 
individuals and our different partners to extend 
the reach of our services to support those who may 
need assistance either for humanitarian needs or 
charitable endeavours. You can find out more on 
www.inmarsat.com and review case studies and 
updates in our CSR section.
Our maritime heritage is a key reminder to us of how 
we have supported mariners and the wider maritime 
community for over 35 years and remain focused on 
doing so in the future. We remain the only approved 
provider of satellite communications services for 
the GMDSS and we continue to invest in the 
development of maritime safety services. Our 
SafetyNET service continues to be used to provide 
vital updates on reported pirate activity. The service 
enables ship masters to access reports of pirate 
movements, giving them information to know which 
regions to avoid with high pirate activity and allowing 
them to re-route if necessary. 
The 2014-15 Volvo Round the World Ocean 
Race, of which Inmarsat is the official satellite 
communications provider, relies on Inmarsat safety 
services for the crews to maintain communication 
at all times, wherever they are. FleetBroadband, 
Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all 
standard equipment for each of the yachts. 
Our IsatPhone was used in an emergency when 
one of the ships ran aground with the yacht captain 
praising it for helping save the crew’s lives. 
In addition to maritime safety services, we also 
promote safety services to the aviation industry 
for use in the cockpit. We remain committed to 
the provision of International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO) approved satellite safety 
services, and are expanding our safety offerings 
through our SwiftBroadband service. We are 
supportive of the announcement that has come 
following the resolution made in early 2015 by the 
ICAO, the United Nations aviation body tasked with 
monitoring the global aviation industry, to adopt a 
new aircraft tracking standard. 
to the Group both during 2015 and through the 
contract life, delivering multi-million dollar savings. 
Another key priority for the Global Procurement 
team this year has been to better understand our 
current vendor base. We undertake a robust due 
diligence process for new vendors through a 
pre-qualification process. This includes reviewing 
financial stability, compliance with relevant current 
legislation and customer references for similar 
goods and services. Additionally, we reviewed the 
number of vendors we trade with to allow us to 
establish better relationships and to enable greater 
leverage of our global spend in 2016. We will do this 
through a well-managed preferred supplier list 
including Group wide corporate arrangements.
We will focus further in 2016 on building the 
foundations of a solid procurement function 
including process simplification initiatives such as 
invoice consolidation, increased use of purchasing 
cards and standard contractual frameworks – this 
all contributes to making us easier to do business 
with. This ‘procurement as a service’ model will help 
improve efficiency and reduce our overall cost of 
doing business which makes us more effective as 
a business. 
We will progressively work to ensure that all our 
suppliers adhere to our standards of ethical 
behaviour, environmental, health and safety and 
other relevant working practises. We have been 
starting to review our due diligence procedures 
to ensure we ask for, collect and review supplier 
information provided to us to ensure they are 
organisations we want to do business with. It is 
important for us to work with companies who 
acknowledge they have a responsibility for these 
good working practices, especially on the 
environmental impact their work may have if 
they produce satellites, procure launches and 
manufacture terminals for us.
We have identified four continuing health and 
safety priorities based on business activities and 
the potential harm to staff:
 > Musculoskeletal disorders and display screen 
equipment related ill health.
 > Working at height.
 > Manual handling.
 > Lone working.
Specific training and awareness materials are 
provided to staff who are affected by these 
identified areas of work.
At the start of 2015, we received an International 
Safety Award from the British Safety Council which 
demonstrates Inmarsat’s commitment to health, 
safety and wellbeing in the workplace. 
As part of our business of running a global satellite 
network, we operate a number of ground earth 
stations, VSAT and telemetry and tracking facilities 
where there are satellite dishes which generate 
radiation. Access to these sites is restricted and 
there are regular health and safety checks to 
ensure that they are in protected areas away from 
access by the general public. Personnel who work 
at these sites are provided with relevant training as 
to health and safety issues.
OUR TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATIONS
We have identified technology as one of our key 
resources supporting our business model. While 
investment in innovation is clearly important, 
having talented and experienced teams who 
understand how technology and innovation can 
work together is essential. Our teams watch what 
happens in the macro environment and see how 
this affects how we innovate for the future to 
produce services our customers want to use. 
OUR PARTNERS
Our partners are critical to our business success. Our 
definition of partners encompasses all those we work 
with – manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, service 
providers and end users. We rely on their excellence 
to support the achievement of our business 
objectives and strengthen our service offering. 
Our partners can provide local and global expertise 
which supplement our own capabilities – their 
activities support our Annual Report theme of 
Global Reach, Global Impact. 
We need to ensure that we understand what they 
want from us as a partner so that we meet their 
expectations for working with us. We are reviewing 
how we partner going forwards to make us simpler 
and easier to do business with in respect of our 
contracts, pricing and other ways we interact with 
them. It is important for our partner relationships 
that we are operating fairly in our business dealings 
and ongoing relationships.
Our Group-led category management approach to 
procurement and supply management is maturing 
and has delivered significant financial contribution  26 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
We are proud to have supported 
TSF , the telecommunications relief 
aid organisation, for 15 years.
EDUCATION
We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat 
Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the 
World Maritime University which supports the 
education of maritime specialists.
We encourage internships with schools and 
universities to provide students with the 
opportunity to experience first-hand the 
engineering and technical aspects of satellite 
operations. 
This year’s Inmarsat Summer Strategy Challenge 
came to a successful conclusion when students 
studying science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) courses from City and 
Islington College in London presented their findings 
on the ‘Digital Divide’ to a prestigious audience of 
industry experts. The challenge was set using the 
ongoing UK Space Agency-funded Digital Frontiers 
project to bring internet connectivity to local 
communities in key growth hubs in Sub-Saharan 
Africa. Now in its second year the programme, with 
the London-based school, forms part of Inmarsat’s 
promotion of STEM education to encourage young 
people to be inspired by space-enabled 
communications and to follow careers in the 
satellite world.
We are also investing in the careers of future 
engineers with a new Technology Development 
Programme, designed to provide newly qualified 
STEM-based graduates with a platform to develop 
a career in satellite communications. The graduate 
scheme confirms Inmarsat’s commitment to 
supporting and enabling the next generation of 
world-class engineers. It includes a two-year 
tailored programme of continuous learning and 
development at Inmarsat, with the continuation 
of employment within a technology-focused team 
after this initial period.
Our website contains more information on the 
areas of education we support including, for 
example, our continued support for World Space 
Week, an initiative started by the United Nations 
in 1999.
Our global offices support local causes at a 
corporate and employee level and we encourage 
staff to get involved in local community initiatives. 
Employees across our offices are encouraged to 
support individual charities of their choice, and for 
employees in our principal UK office, this is 
encouraged through the UK Government’s tax 
approved contributions scheme. 
This year we have leveraged Inmarsat’s global 
reach to deliver benefits across Africa to 
unconnected communities through a series 
of scalable innovation pilots. We are working 
alongside maternal health partners in Nigeria 
to ensure that 50 remote clinics, which serve a 
community of 50,000 women are connected to 
key health resources. In Kenya, we have worked 
closely with Equity Bank, their Foundation and the 
Open University to deliver financial services and 
education content to 200 sites in total across the 
country, reaching a population of 40,000.
 
We have worked closely with development and 
digital economy experts to create a global 
community ‘STARHub’. STARHub is hosted by the 
Satellite Applications Catapult and brings together 
satellite capabilities with those exposed to poor 
infrastructure in Africa, Asia and South America. 
Other partners from the UK include the Royal 
African Society, Archbishop Tutu’s Global eHealth 
Foundation, Open University, Dalberg Group, 
Caribou Digital and the London Institute of Space 
Policy and Law.
We were delighted in December 2015 to be 
announced as a winner at the first annual Better 
Satellite World Awards, organised by the Society 
of Satellite Professionals International. This 
award recognised our role in providing satellite 
communications, to deliver critical data to 
support safety services, enable NGO and 
humanitarian aid in times of a disaster and 
provide a vital communication service wherever 
and whenever needed.
In 2015, we continued to support the 
telecommunications relief aid organisation, 
Télécoms Sans Frontières (TSF) ($200,000) and 
paid $115,000 to the World Maritime University as 
part of our support for the education of maritime 
specialists. These two amounts are our most 
significant charitable payments. The total 
charitable donation amount paid in 2015 was 
approximately $865,000. 
Our core charitable support remains focused on 
the work carried out by TSF. We are very proud to 
have supported this wonderful charity for 15 years. 
TSF runs programmes on disaster relief and 
preparedness, training other relief organisations 
and regional and national disaster response 
agencies about the available capabilities for 
emergency telecommunications. TSF help 
these organisations respond to an emergency 
knowing they have the necessary training to 
use BGAN terminals and IsatPhone, our handheld 
satellite phone. 
We have also continued our support for 
the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). 
This enhanced in 2015 with our signing of an MoU 
with ITU-D in the framework of the Smart 
Sustainable Development Model (SSDM) which 
aims to foster the use of satellite broadband 
services in remote or under-developed areas. 
We have committed to $100,000 worth of airtime 
over a three-year period which will start to be drawn 
against when the ITU identifies a project in a 
suitable community.
In October 2015, we, along with world-leading 
satellite operators under the umbrella of the EMEA 
Satellite Operators Association and the Global 
VSAT Forum, signed a Crisis Connectivity Charter 
at the World Humanitarian Summit Global 
Consultation in Geneva to enhance connectivity 
in the case of humanitarian emergencies. 
Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support 
the use of our services, normally payphones, in 
rural villages in remote regions of the world, where 
terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent. 
RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 27
a popular means of communication with staff 
working in different locations and across different 
time zones.
COMMERCIAL WASTE 
In the London office and at our major sites, 
we continue a progressive approach to waste 
management. Recycling is managed locally in the 
larger sites with the separation of plastics, paper 
and non-recyclable materials. In the head office 
in London, which is the single largest office for the 
Group, 100% of waste is diverted from landfill 
and this policy has been in place since 2009. 
We separate our waste into four streams: 
recyclable, non-recyclable, glass and confidential 
waste. Confidential waste is shredded and pulped to 
be reused in paper products. The non-recyclable 
material is incinerated and converted to electricity 
and all other waste is recycled. In 2015 our 
contractors collected 53 tonnes of recyclable 
waste from the London head office and a further 
105 tonnes were sent for incineration and 
converted into electricity.
SPACE DEBRIS
As a satellite operator, we have adopted the 
highest industry standards in terms of space 
debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard 
manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when 
they reach the end of their commercial life. Our final 
Inmarsat-2 satellite was deorbited in 2014. Its 
deorbit was undertaken in full compliance with the 
relevant ITU standards. We also deorbited a satellite 
we operated for an Asian partner in early 2015. 
We expect that during 2016 we will plan to deorbit 
the first of our five Inmarsat-3 satellites. We operate 
our satellites in geosynchronous orbit which is 
approximately 36,000km above the earth. This orbit 
has significantly less debris than in a low earth orbit 
which is approximately 700km above the earth and 
where several MSS operators have their 
satellite constellations.
We are also a founding member of the Space Data 
Association. Along with Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat 
we aim to improve the satellite safety of flight and 
make operations in space safer and more reliable.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 
51 has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board
ALISON HORROCKS
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 
and Company Secretary
3 March 2016
Our mission is to adopt and support the 
following principles: 
 > provide first-class energy and environmental 
management practices;
 > comply with all relevant global environmental 
legislation and regulatory controls;
 > identify significant environmental and social 
impacts and establish objectives and targets 
for improvement;
 > in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% 
of generated waste and to constantly review the 
opportunity to use recycled products;
 > to actively encourage the conservation of 
energy, water and natural resources through the 
increased efficiency and introduction of new and 
modern technology;
 > to encourage all employees to be proactive in 
their daily activities by separating their waste 
into dry and wet waste receptacles;
 > ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled;
 > switching off lights, computers, phone chargers 
and any other electrical items when not in use;
 > reducing business travel and using more 
site-based technology such as video and 
audio conferencing; and
 > to replace inefficient building lighting with 
LED technology.
We continue to monitor our energy consumption 
and comply with our social and legal responsibilities 
in terms of carbon emissions. Please see our 
summary of carbon emissions within the Report of 
the Directors on page 56. Energy efficiency is one 
of the key considerations when replacing obsolete 
and inefficient machinery. 
In 2015 Inmarsat achieved compliance with the 
Department of Energy and Climate Change Energy 
Savings Opportunity Scheme. Both our London 
and Hague offices were reviewed under the terms 
of the scheme and appropriate actions taken. 
In 2016 Inmarsat will consider a number of 
energy-saving initiatives to support our 
compliance efforts at both sites.
We continue to review new technologies and 
control building operational strategies. We 
continue to be committed to our waste 
management and recycling schemes. Video 
conferencing and other collaboration tools 
allowing visual connectivity are being used to 
reduce the dependency on air transport and are 
ENVIRONMENT
In 2015 Inmarsat achieved a carbon disclosure score 
of 95 from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
annual survey. This is our highest score and elevates 
us to the same level as telecommunications 
companies such as BT and Vodafone. Annually, 
Inmarsat has entered the CDP and this year’s 
responses followed a deep dive analysis of our 
approach to climate change. We were delighted to 
receive a good rating from the CDP and in 2016 plan 
to undertake more analysis in the area of assurance 
and governance.
Although the activities of the Group are judged to 
have a low environmental impact and are not 
expected to give rise to any significant, inherent 
environmental risks over the next 12 months, we 
take seriously the environmental issues of running 
the business and this is reflected in the additional 
information provided to and assessed by the CDP. 
Some of our environmental impacts include the 
use of natural resources, the consumption of 
energy and water and the production of a variety 
of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling 
for business purposes around the globe. We 
acknowledge that we have an impact on the local 
and global environment and our objective is to 
minimise this.
We have approximately 1,700 staff who work in over 
50 locations around the world. Of those offices, 
warehouses and earth stations, over 80% of our 
staff operate from eight locations. 
In 2015 we continued to consolidate leased 
locations and reduced our locations by eight sites. 
In addition we developed a Logistics Strategy with 
an objective to consolidate warehouse operations 
to three locations across the globe by mid 2017. 
The net effect of reducing the number of offices 
and warehouses will be to reduce our global CO 2 
emissions and energy consumption. We plan 
to continue our office consolidation programme 
in 2016 which will also reduce our impact on 
the environment.  28 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Delivering value and driving innovation were key to 
Inmarsat Maritime’s strategy in 2015. The business 
achieved growth across its services portfolio; 
reinforcing its position as Inmarsat’s largest market 
sector and leader in global maritime communications.
Inmarsat Maritime delivered a series of strategic 
initiatives, including the start of its Certified Application 
Partner programme and a strategic relationship with 
Rolls-Royce focused on autonomous vessels; in 
addition to expanding its partner eco-system.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
MARITIME
Revenue
$593.2m 
2014: $595.6m FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 29
Scan the image above 
using the Inmarsat App 
to view Maritime content. 
EBITDA
$459.4m 
2014: $450.4m
Number of FleetBroadband installed vessels
41,942 
2014: 40,469
FleetBroadband revenue
$359.7m 
2014: $305.9m 30 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
MARITIME
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
CONTINUED
The strategy of migrating customers away from our 
legacy services continued to deliver net benefits to 
the business. Whilst revenue from our legacy Fleet 
service declined during the year, FleetBroadband 
delivered revenue growth of 18% and by the end of 
the year, we had seen a subscriber growth of 3.6% 
to almost 42,000 ships at higher average revenue 
per user.
XpressLink is our managed service based on 
Ku-band and L -band technologies, and is 
positioned as a precursor to Fleet Xpress, which is 
the name for the maritime Global Xpress Ka-band 
service. We accelerated our installation rate over 
the year, reducing installation lead times by a 
month, taking the installed base to almost 2,500 
vessels by the year end (a mix of XpressLink and 
legacy VSAT), with a healthy backlog of over six 
months’ installations by the end of 2015, all 
representing ‘stock for migration’ to Fleet Xpress.
For the migration itself we have developed a ‘light 
vessel touch’ hardware platform that enables us to 
migrate vessels in a more economical way and in a 
shorter timeframe. The platform will also be capable 
of hosting future versions of our Network Services 
Device software, which will form the heart of our 
maritime managed service capabilities.
The Maritime business continues to benefit from 
its focus on innovation and development of new 
products and services, which has helped to expand 
its leadership position in the maritime market and 
open up new revenue opportunities.
In 2015 we made an entry into the small vessel 
market (leisure and small fishing vessels) with Fleet 
One and FleetPhone. Although this is still early days 
for Fleet One, we made good early headway with five 
distribution partners, including KVH, adopting the 
Fleet One service as part of their portfolio on a 
pooled price basis highlighting their confidence 
in the product. We also made progress with 
FleetPhone, with over 10,000 units being activated 
by the Chinese Fujian fishing fleet during the year.
The Maritime business remains Inmarsat’s largest 
single market segment, representing approximately 
50% of the Company’s annual MSS revenues. 
Though revenue was relatively flat in 2015 
significant progress has been made in setting 
the foundations for a return to growth in 2016.
In 2015 we successfully positioned ourselves as 
the industry driver of innovation in maritime 
communications. We further expanded the 
Inmarsat ecosystem, with the addition of new 
partners (including Ericsson) and application 
developers and we became a technology partner 
in the autonomous vessel project with Rolls-Royce. 
In addition, we embarked on the Certified Application 
Partner (CAP) programme, as a structured 
approach to driving the development, delivery and 
monetisation of premium business applications for 
the global maritime market. This CAP programme 
is focused on Inmarsat’s Global Xpress broadband 
satellite network and gateway infrastructure. As part 
of this, we are actively engaging with partners to 
drive operational efficiency (planned maintenance, 
engine monitoring, chart updates, weather routing); 
safety and compliance (pollution monitoring, 
anti-piracy, telemedicine, remote surveillance); 
IT and security (remote IT support, cyber security, 
corporate e-mail); and crew welfare (internet access, 
news, sports, movies, TV and radio).
Despite the overall result for the maritime sector, 
2015 has been a successful year for the two core 
products in our portfolio, FleetBroadband and 
XpressLink. Both these products delivered strong 
growth and together now account for 76% of 
revenue. This growth was driven by a combination 
of an increased number of vessels in billing and 
the consistent execution of our pricing policy; this 
promoted higher levels of usage through flat fee 
packages rather than ‘pay as you go’ services, 
so offering increased value to the customer and 
revenue growth to the business.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 31
2015 has been an encouraging 
year for our Maritime business. 
We are in a strong position to 
return to growth in 2016.
During 2015, FleetBroadband continued to grow 
strongly, rising by $53.8m (+17.6%) despite slowing 
markets. At the end of the year there were 41,942 
active ships with this service, around 4% higher 
than the installed base of 40,469 ships at the end 
of 2014. The rate of growth of installations 
continued to slow through the year as we 
completed the transition of legacy Maritime 
services onto FleetBroadband (and this growth 
starts to reflect more closely intrinsic maritime 
sector growth dynamics) and as negative market 
pressures increased. Wholesale ARPU increased by 
10% to an average of over $700 for the year, 
mainly reflecting price increases at the start of 
the year.
VSAT revenue increased by $10.3m (+12.6%) driven 
by a 20% increase in the installed base to almost 
2,500 ships, mainly comprising XpressLink 
customers. VSAT ARPU was little changed over the 
year. The net installation run-rate increased steadily 
over 2015 with the underlying levels of installations 
and terminations both increasing. The backlog of 
installation orders continued to rise across the year, 
ending the year at over six months of installations. 
Revenues from Fleet fell by 52.5% 
(2014: 18.6% decline). Revenues from our 
other mainly legacy services fell by 20.6% 
(2014: 10.0% growth). Together these services 
declined by $66.5m during the year. These 
services, which often have a higher third-party 
component cost and hence lower margin, now 
represent 24% of total Maritime revenues, 
compared to 35% at the end of 2014. 
Maritime costs fell by $11.4m (7.9%), with the 
volume driven impact of VSAT cost increases being 
more than offset by a reduction in indirect costs 
and the change in mix from lower margin/higher 
cost mainly legacy products towards higher 
margin/lower cost FleetBroadband.
Maritime EBITDA increased by $9.0m (+2.0%) 
and Maritime EBITDA margin increased by 1.8% 
to 77.4% (2014: 75.6%) with the impact of slightly 
lower revenues being more than offset by the 
favourable cost impact of improved revenue mix 
and lower indirect costs.
Furthermore, we managed to install the first Fleet 
Media services in the second quarter of the year, 
signing up two distributors for the service and 
securing Maersk Tankers as the first customer. 
Feedback has been positive, and integration into 
the Fleet Xpress standard installation set up will 
accelerate the further adoption of this service. 
Overall, 2015 has been an encouraging year for 
the Maritime business with continued growth in 
FleetBroadband and VSAT services and solid 
foundations established for the introduction of 
Fleet Xpress in 2016. This positions our Maritime 
business well for a return to growth in 2016.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Maritime revenue in the year decreased by $2.4m 
(-0.4%) to $593.2m (2014: $595.6m) as continued 
strong growth in FleetBroadband and VSAT was 
more than offset by the much faster decline in Fleet 
and other mainly legacy services. The merchant 
maritime industry continues to face severe 
commercial headwinds, and this is reflected in 
reduced new ship orders, increasing scrappage of 
older ships and lay-ups of younger ships (especially 
in the Oil and Gas segment), impacting on growth in 
new installations and accelerating the decline in 
our legacy services on older vessels. However, we 
continue to defend and grow our market share in 
this important sector, through product and service 
innovation and the delivery of value-added 
solutions that enable a more efficient ‘smart ship’ 
operating environment globally. 
EUKOR ADOPTS GX SERVICES
EUKOR Car Carriers, one of the world’s 
largest shipping companies specialising in 
the transportation of cars and other rolling 
cargo, selected Global Xpress for its fleet 
of 27 vessels, for connectivity across the 
Indian Ocean region. With plans to roll-out 
full global coverage in 2016, EUKOR believes 
that having Inmarsat on board will help it 
improve business operations across its 
global fleet which connects 220 ports; meet 
its customers’ needs; optimise operational 
efficiency and monitor and improve safety 
and environmental performance. Revenue
(1)
$159.5m 
2014: $155.9m
(1) 2014 revenue adjusted to exclude disposals of 
energy-related assets in 2014 which delivered 
revenue of $10.8m in 2014.
32 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
2015 saw Inmarsat’s Enterprise business strengthen 
its focus on innovation and work with its key markets 
in anticipation of the forthcoming launch of industry 
specific Global Xpress (GX) services.
Enterprise achieved significant success in early 
trials of GX, including its deployment following the 
Nepal earthquake, strengthened its sales channel 
with five new GX Value Added Resellers and created 
a team exclusively dedicated to M2M and the 
Internet of Things.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
ENTERPRISE EBITDA
$113.1m 
2014: $102.1m
Number of M2M devices
326,000 
2014: 292,000
Number of IsatPhones
140,000 
2014: 115,500
Scan the image above 
using the Inmarsat App to 
view Enterprise content. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 33 34 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
ENTERPRISE
important role in M2M enablement in specific 
vertical markets, enabling a host of applications 
ranging from asset tracking and remote surveillance 
to Smart Grids and environmental monitoring.
The growth of the M2M business was supported 
by the sale of our shareholding in SkyWave to our 
new partner ORBCOMM which was completed at 
the beginning of 2015. As well as adding ORBCOMM 
as a powerful and highly innovative VAR for M2M 
services, as part of this deal, Inmarsat acquired the 
intellectual property in the IsatData Pro (IDP) 
technology and the IDP satellite network assets. 
Inmarsat commenced work on developing its own 
commercial IDP Gateway in 2015 which we expect 
to bring to commercial service during 2016. The 
commercialisation of the IDP technology enables 
Inmarsat to enhance its portfolio of M2M 
connectivity services to both existing distribution 
channels as well as enabling new customers and 
vertical markets to build its partner ecosystem. 
M2M saw an increase in subscribers of 11.6% and 
an increase in average revenue per user driven by 
product mix driving overall revenue up by 13.7%. 
Despite the global downturn in the energy sector, 
we saw meaningful growth from our energy 
business, particularly from FleetBroadband, which 
continued to demonstrate its relevance to a sector 
with the highest needs for reliable communications. 
The growth in FB was in contrast to BGAN revenue 
which declined by 6.0% year-on-year. This 
reflected in part competition from low-cost 
solutions but also the downturn in the resources 
sector and lower event-driven revenue, particularly 
in the latter part of the year. 2015 was a year of 
ongoing innovation for BGAN to adapt and 
improve existing services to meet the evolving 
needs of our users. Our Enterprise business 
continued to leverage the well-established BGAN 
service to deliver new and enhanced capabilities 
to users in the media (BGAN HDR), the aid and 
development sector (BGAN Link) and the Internet 
of Everywhere (BGAN M2M). 
Our underlying Enterprise business, adjusted for 
the disposal of our retail energy-related assets, 
continued to grow in 2015 despite the impact of 
a strong US dollar and headwinds in the BGAN 
market over the final quarter of the year. The 
increase was driven by growth in machine-to-
machine (M2M) and Enterprise FleetBroadband 
(FB) revenue. 
Innovation, to both strengthen existing 
propositions and to open up new opportunities 
to provide Inmarsat services to entirely new groups 
of users, was the focus of the business in 2015.
Enterprise, in close coordination with our business 
partners, drove further innovation around Global 
Xpress (GX) focusing on the needs of the most 
demanding customers who required a globally 
available, high-reliability managed network. 
In anticipation of the commercial launch of GX, 
the Enterprise business spent much of 2015 
strengthening the distribution channel with four 
new GX Value Added Resellers (VARs) appointed, 
serving a number of different market verticals 
including the energy, aid/NGO and media markets. 
Also during the year extensive GX field trials took 
place around the globe and GX services were 
deployed commercially by the media in Nepal, 
following the devastating April 2015 earthquake. 
GX has been extensively tested by commercial 
partners which will drive accelerated adoption 
during 2016. Early interest in GX has been strong, 
particularly from customers in the energy, mining 
and media sectors.
In 2015 we continued to focus on developing a 
long-term M2M connectivity business. Under the 
banner of the ‘Internet of Everywhere’ the business 
created a team focused on exploiting the rapidly 
growing M2M and Internet of Things markets. M2M 
connectivity allows devices to communicate with 
each other and share information via the internet. 
Satellite communications play an increasingly 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 35
A team was created to focus on 
exploiting the rapidly growing 
M2M and Internet of Things 
markets.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Underlying revenues (ie excluding the impact of the 
sale of our retail energy-related assets in 2014) grew 
by $3.6m (+2.3%). Reported revenue fell by $7.2m 
(-4.3%) to $159.5m (2015: $166.7m).
The increase in underlying revenues was driven by 
strong growth in FB (+48.7%) and M2M revenues 
(+13.7%) and a one-off service upgrade supplied to 
a major customer in Q3. These results were offset 
by IsatPhone handset sales (-25.7%) and lower 
BGAN revenues (-6.0%).
Enterprise FB revenues grew by 48.7% in 2015, 
despite the downturn in the energy sector, mainly 
as a result of increased traffic and tariff changes, 
including a price increase in the fixed-to-mobile 
interconnect termination rates. 
M2M revenues continued to grow well despite 
the slow-down in the energy sector as customers 
continued to demand connectivity to drive 
efficiency. By the end of the year, the total M2M 
installed base was over 326,000 terminals. 
IsatPhone revenues were adversely impacted by 
a manufacturing problem experienced in Q3, which 
drove a 25% reduction in handset revenues for the 
year. IsatPhone airtime revenues were unchanged 
year-on-year. 
BGAN revenues were down by 6.0% year-on-year, 
mainly driven by fewer events and lower use in the 
media and resources sectors than last year.
Operating costs decreased by $18.2m (-28.2%) 
compared to 2014, reflecting the disposal of our 
retail energy-related assets in 2015, higher product 
margins and lower indirect costs.
Enterprise EBITDA increased by $11.0m (+10.8%) 
to $113.1m (2014: $102.1) primarily due to growth in 
higher margin on-network services. This also 
resulted in the Enterprise EBITDA margin increasing 
to 70.9%, from 61.2% in 2014.
Despite a challenging year in the global market for 
handheld satphones, IsatPhone 2 continues to 
meet a key need for users around the world. 
IsatPhone 2 offers dependable, high-quality voice 
calls, text and email messaging outside cellular and 
fixed network coverage. Commercial sales of 
IsatPhone 2 were temporarily impacted by a 
manufacturing quality issue with a third-party 
vendor. As a result, satphone sales were lower 
year-over-year though sales returned to normal 
levels by the end of the year. Despite this setback the 
IsatPhone installed base grew over 21.2%, taking the 
number of IsatPhone terminals to over 140,000 with 
growth in both prepay and postpay offerings. 
We are proud of our partnership with the UK Space 
Agency and its Digital Frontiers initiatives. The 
Enterprise business plays a central role in this £32m 
International Partnerships Space Programme 
which seeks to uncover projects where Inmarsat’s 
robust satellite communications will be pivotal in 
enabling economic growth in areas which lack 
appropriate communications infrastructure. The 
year saw the launch of two pilot projects – firstly 
in partnership with the Equity Bank Group in Kenya 
to bring financial and welfare content access to 
remote communities and secondly in Nigeria to 
provide telemedicine services for pregnant women 
and new mothers. 
ERGON ENERGY USES BGAN M2M 
FOR EFFICIENT GRID MONITORING 
AND CONTROL
Ergon Energy maintains and manages 
the electric distribution network across 
Queensland, providing energy for over 
720,000 homes and businesses, across 
some of the most rural parts of Australia, 
requiring 160,000km of power lines and 
more than a million power poles. The 
Inmarsat BGAN M2M service has given 
Ergon Energy access to parts of its 
distribution network that had previously 
been out of bounds, by providing cost-
effective, remote monitoring and control 
of the power grid with a constant and 
reliable flow of information.  Revenue
$126.8m 
2014: $101.1m
36 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
2015 was a year of dramatic developments for 
Inmarsat’s Aviation business. Revenues grew by 
over 25% and a series of strategic announcements 
highlighted the potential for both the GX Aviation 
service and the European Aviation Network.
Two leading global airlines, Lufthansa Group and 
Singapore Airlines, signed as GX Aviation customers, 
while Deutsche Telekom signed a strategic 
partnership to help deliver unprecedented passenger 
connectivity to Europe’s aviation industry.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
AVIATION EBITDA
$103.7m 
2014: $87.2m
Number of SwiftBroadband active SIMs
7 ,200 
2014: 5,400
SwiftBroadband revenue
$84.6m 
2014: $58.8m
Scan the image above 
using the Inmarsat App to 
view Aviation content. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 37 38 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
AVIATION
The strategic partnership with Deutsche Telekom 
will seamlessly combine satellite connectivity from 
Inmarsat’s new S-band satellite with a LTE-based 
ground network to be developed and operated by 
Deutsche Telekom. The S-band satellite is currently 
being built and is planned to be launched on a 
SpaceX Falcon Heavy vehicle as soon as 
practicable after construction is completed. 
The ground network will comprise approximately 
300 LTE sites across Europe, each with a range of 
some 80km, which Deutsche Telekom will build and 
manage. The satellite and ground networks will be 
integrated such that switching between them will 
be managed automatically by on-board cabin 
systems, with no impact on service delivery. 
Deutsche Telekom will take a share of the wholesale 
airtime revenues generated by the complementary 
ground network. Inmarsat will supply and manage 
the satellite service component of the network, and 
will lead the marketing and sales of the integrated 
connectivity service to European airlines. Inmarsat 
and Deutsche Telekom are aiming to have the EAN 
ready for full service availability by mid-2017.
Connections and data traffic in the business 
aviation market are still growing strongly. During 
the year, Inmarsat started work with Honeywell 
Aerospace and an antennae development 
company, Kymeta, to develop a lighter flat panel 
high-speed Ka-band wireless antenna, suitable 
to bring higher capacity and speeds to large 
commercial aircraft as well as offering standard 
GX services to much smaller aircraft in the business 
aviation market. 
Aviation safety services continue to be in the 
industry spotlight, with a range of new services 
being trialled in a number of jurisdictions. During 
the year Inmarsat announced that Hawaiian 
Airlines was the first commercial airline to fly with 
our SwiftBroadband Safety service on its Boeing 
767-300 fleet. The first flight took place in June 
2015, after the Supplemental Type Certificate for 
the service was awarded. SwiftBroadband Safety 
Inmarsat’s Aviation business enjoyed another 
strong year in 2015, both financially and 
strategically, recording a revenue increase of 
25.4% for the full year. Aviation’s revenue growth 
was driven by both a higher number of connections 
and a higher Average Revenue Per User (ARPU). 
The growth was primarily driven by the continuing 
strength of our SwiftBroadband (SB) service in 
both the business and general aviation markets 
and air transport; SB revenues now represent 
two-thirds of total Aviation revenues, with 
approximately 7,200 active SIMs by the end of 
the year. Classic Aero active terminals also grew, 
by 9% for the year.
During the year, successful trials of GX Aviation 
equipment and network capabilities were 
conducted, including streaming videos and live 
radio, online conference calls, and downloading 
files. Successful helicopter flights were also 
conducted by Boeing. These have all validated 
the ability of GX to deliver high-speed, global, 
broadband connectivity in the air.
We are in advanced stages of negotiation 
with major airlines around the world to provide 
connectivity solutions for their passengers and 
during 2015 confirmed that Singapore Airlines will 
procure GX from Inmarsat’s partner SITAONAIR, 
with the first installation scheduled for the second 
half of 2016.
During 2015, we also signed a 10-year contract 
with Lufthansa to provide high-speed connectivity 
services on board more than 150 of Lufthansa’s 
European fleet from mid-2016. The agreement 
also provides a contractual framework to extend 
the agreement to other airlines within the wider 
Lufthansa Group. Lufthansa has also committed 
to trial the European Aviation Network (EAN) when it 
becomes commercially available. This development, 
alongside Inmarsat forming a strategic partnership 
with Deutsche Telekom to develop the ground 
component of EAN, represented two major steps 
forward for our EAN in 2015.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 39
SwiftBroadband Safety will 
provide an enhanced version 
of our existing safety service 
enabling organisations to receive 
and transmit messages faster.
ESA’s IRIS programme. ESA’s IRIS programme is 
part of the European Union’s Single European Skies 
Air Traffic Management Joint Undertaking, which 
aims to address the €4bn cost resulting from the 
shortcomings of the current European Air Traffic 
Management system.
Aviation remains a major growth market, with 
connectivity into the cockpit and the cabin, in both 
large commercial aircraft and smaller business jets, 
expected to see strong growth over the coming 
years. Growth in connectivity will be driven by the 
increasing number of aircraft in the sky, the need 
for more capable and sophisticated operational 
and safety services in the cockpit, and the 
increasing demand from passengers that they 
be online when they are on board an aircraft.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Aviation revenue for the year grew by $25.7m 
(+25.4%) to $126.8m (2014: $101.1m), with SB 
now accounting for two-thirds of total Aviation 
revenues in the year. Aviation’s revenue growth 
was driven by both higher connections and a higher 
ARPU, both in our SB service, in the business and 
general aviation markets and air transport markets, 
and in our legacy Classic Aero service.
SB revenue growth continued to benefit from the 
impact of the ‘take-or-pay’ contracts signed with 
several key distribution partners in mid-2014. 
These contracts applied pricing discounts 
retrospectively to the start of 2014 in return for 
minimum revenue commitments in the full years 
2014 and 2015. 
SB revenue increased by 43.7%, with active SIMs 
growing by 31.9% to c. 7,200. SB ARPU grew by 
8.6% to just under $1,100 per month. Classic Aero 
revenue increased by 9.7%, with active SIMs 
growing by 8.6% to c. 7,700. Classic Aero ARPU 
grew by 0.9% to just over $320 per month.
Operating costs increased by $9.2m (-66.2%) 
to $23.1m (2014: $13.9m) due to increased 
headcount and other costs associated with the 
pursuit and delivery of the major growth 
opportunities in cabin connectivity. We will invest 
further in these areas over the coming years to 
maximise the longer-term opportunities for growth.
Aviation EBITDA increased by $16.5m (+18.9%) 
to $103.7m (2014: $87.2m). However, the EBITDA 
margin decreased to 81.8% (2014: 86.3%) 
reflecting the additional costs noted above. 
will provide an enhanced version of Inmarsat’s 
Classic Aero service, enabling Air Navigation 
Service Providers and Air Traffic Management 
organisations to receive and transmit data and 
messages faster and more efficiently. The 
SwiftBroadband Safety service is expected to 
be commercially available from Q2 2016.
In 2015, we also launched a partnership with 
Airservices Australia and other aviation industry 
stakeholders to trial improved flight tracking 
services on commercial airlines on flights to and 
from Australia. This followed the International Civil 
Aviation Authority resolution in February 2015, 
supported by Inmarsat, to adopt a new 15-minute 
tracking standard for commercial aircraft. Based 
on the results of the trial, Airservices Australia has 
now adopted the 14-minute reporting requirement 
as its standard operating procedure in oceanic 
airspace. In addition, other Air Navigation Service 
Providers have commenced evaluations as a result 
of the successful Australian trial.
Europe’s ambitious programme to create the 
world’s most advanced and secure air traffic 
management system also took a step forward in 
2015, with the announcement by Inmarsat and the 
European Space Agency (ESA) of the successful 
completion of Phase 1 of ESA’s IRIS Precursor; the 
‘Final Design Review’ to validate the architecture 
and system design, and the safety and security of 
INMARSAT AND LUFTHANSA GROUP 
PARTNERSHIP
Inmarsat’s 10-year strategic partnership 
with Lufthansa Group to provide next-
generation connectivity services was 
formalised in October 2015. Inmarsat GX 
Aviation will power connectivity services 
on board more than 150 Lufthansa aircraft, 
enabling passengers to make the most of 
broadband internet access on their own 
mobile devices via a wireless network on 
board. Lufthansa will also trial Inmarsat’s 
EAN, which combines an S-band satellite 
with a complementary LTE ground network 
being provided by Deutsche Telekom, 
in 2017. 40 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The government market has been challenging. 2015 
saw the first signs of a more positive environment as 
declines slowed.
The position of Inmarsat’s Government business was
strengthened with the start of global GX services.
The US Government was an early adopter of and the 
first to use the service in all three GX regions. Six 
nations (US, France, UK, Australia, Germany and 
Japan) have now contracted for GX services. 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 41
Scan the image above 
using the Inmarsat App to 
view Government content. 
Revenue
$286.6m 
2014: $319.9m
EBITDA
$191.0m 
2014: $216.4m
Number of new countries
8 
2014: 13 42 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNMENT
services have provided cost-effective global 
mobility to users worldwide who are currently 
unserved or underserved by military SATCOM. 
Six nations have now contracted for GX services, 
and many more have the system under evaluation.
Inmarsat has continued to work with its technology 
partners to deliver additional innovative GX 
products and services to government users. 
These have included the launch of a lower-cost 
maritime terminal capable of operating on 
Inmarsat’s military and commercial Ka-band 
services as well as on government military Ka-band 
satellites; the demonstration of a GX military 
helicopter service capable of delivering super-fast 
wideband (10Mbps) through the rotor blades; and 
the launch of a roof-mounted terminal for rapid 
deployment and emergency response vehicles. 
Furthermore, Inmarsat together with its partners, 
achieved a significant milestone in successfully 
demonstrating the largest bandwidth Protected 
Tactical Waveform test over a satellite to date. This 
critical capability will bolster the US Government’s 
ability to offer protected communications using 
Inmarsat’s commercial satellites.
Innovation has also been maintained in the high 
mobility government L -band market. Through the 
year, users have continued to migrate from legacy 
Inmarsat-3 services to better value and more 
efficient Inmarsat-4 services. Inmarsat has seized 
this opportunity to leverage the resulting release 
of capacity to deliver more dynamic lease-based 
services. These innovations include the L -band 
Tactical Satellite (L -TAC) service, which enables 
existing secure government radios to extend their 
range many-fold by accessing Inmarsat’s satellites 
using a simple additional antenna unit. In 2015, 
the L -TAC service has been extended to include 
aircraft, and a civilian variant has been launched 
for police and emergency services. L -TAC 
customers have grown to nine nations, and the 
service has been widely applauded for its 
life-saving capability. 
Inmarsat saw promising signs in government 
SATCOM markets as 2015 drew to a close, having 
weathered the storms of shrinking and volatile 
worldwide government spending in recent years. 
US and coalition nations reached the lowest levels 
of deployed land forces in many years, resulting in 
historically low MSS revenue early in the year. 
However, with increased concerns for global 
security as 2015 progressed, we saw slower declines 
by the close of the year. Inmarsat’s focus on 
programmes to augment military systems, diversify 
into new verticals and geographies and launch 
innovative, unique products has been key to 
improving the resilience of our Government 
revenue in this difficult market. Inmarsat’s 
alignment with growth opportunities, specifically, 
airborne intelligence, surveillance and 
reconnaissance (AISR) and special forces’ 
missions, has established a platform for 
future growth.
In addition to the troop deployments, industry 
consolidation has led to increased competitive 
intensity and continued downward pressure on 
government pricing and margins in 2015. Despite 
this, Inmarsat’s Ku FSS retail VSAT business in the 
US showed signs of stabilisation with a number of 
key programme wins.
As the US Government’s demand shifted to rapid, 
highly mobile communication capabilities in 
support of AISR-driven missions, Inmarsat’s 
wholesale government revenue shifted in 2015 to 
reflect growing enthusiasm for Global Xpress (GX). 
Global rollout of GX on the Inmarsat-5 satellites 
has been a strong driver in re-orienting the 
business towards a return to growth. US 
Government customers have been the first 
users on each of the three deployed Inmarsat-5 
satellites. Inmarsat’s strategy of seamlessly 
augmenting existing fleets of government 
spacecraft has enabled existing military SATCOM 
terminal users to quickly and easily access 
additional capacity and coverage where needed. 
At the same time, our introduction of GX managed 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 43
Inmarsat has continued to work 
with its technology partners to 
deliver additional innovative 
GX products and services to 
government users.
needs: optimal reliability with ubiquitous global 
coverage and diversity of assets; availability to 
transfer high-speed data without degradation; 
compatibility with Milsatcom; and flexibility, 
which frees commanders from estimating and 
pre-ordering bandwidth before missions. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Government revenues in the year continued to 
decrease, falling by $33.3m (-10.4%) to $286.6m 
(2014: $319.9m). This decline reflects the 
continued impact of troop withdrawals and the 
reduction in government commercial satellite 
expenditure generally. Government revenues 
are to some degree event and project driven, 
and in 2015, we won a material new short-term 
contract in the US but saw a major reduction in 
the expenditure by one other government. The 
combination of all of these factors meant that the 
rate of decline in government revenues slowed to 
10.4% compared to a decline of 21.7% in 2014. 
In the US, government revenues fell by 12.7% 
(2014: 31.7%) reflecting one significant short-term 
contract win, the end of one major contract, the 
introduction of GX and encouraging revenue 
growth for new L -band products including Assured 
Access, L -TAC and LAISR. Outside the US, revenues 
declined by 7.1% (2014: 0.7% growth) due to the 
renewal of one major contract in Q1 2015 with a 
lower value and a different usage profile. Our 
other non-US markets grew in aggregate, with 
the markets that we have entered more recently – 
eight in 2015 – generally providing growth and the 
more established government markets continuing 
to see lower expenditure.
Operating costs in the year fell by $7.9m (-7.6%) to 
$95.6m (2014: $103.5m) mainly reflecting the mix 
and volume impact of the reduction in revenue. 
Total Government EBITDA in the year fell by 
$25.4m (-11.7%) to $191.0m (2014: $216.4m) and 
the EBITDA margin of 66.6% remained consistent 
with 2014 (2014: 67.6%) reflecting the issues 
noted above. 
In response to governments’ ever-increasing 
demand for reliable, higher throughput SATCOM, 
Inmarsat, together with its partners, have launched 
a number of innovative products into this growing 
market. Examples include the airborne ISR service, 
LAISR, which has been operational in both the 
Americas and EMEA regions; the L -band Advanced 
Communications Element (LACE) terminal 
prototype, which demonstrated record-setting 
bi-directional links at 10Mbps from a miniature 
terminal; and further enhancements to BGAN, 
which allowed Inmarsat to deliver High Data Rate 
(HDR) and Low Profile BGAN services.
In the US Government market, the industry saw 
awards for major US Navy and Air Force SATCOM 
contracts delayed by competitor protest actions; 
we expect the outcome to be known in 2016. The 
extension of large framework contracts in Australia, 
France, UK, Canada, Germany and New Zealand 
demonstrate Inmarsat’s continued competitiveness 
in the major global defence markets. Meanwhile, the 
strategy of increasing diversification into new 
geographies and less volatile non-defence verticals 
has continued to succeed. Wins have ranged from 
fire-brigade solutions in Australia, border security 
in the Middle East, disaster response in China, 
presidential protection in Africa, government 
helicopters in Mexico and telemedicine in Brazil. 
Inmarsat is staying the course, with unique trusted 
capabilities well matched to governments’ evolving 
L-BAND TACTICAL SATELLITE
US and allied military forces rely on 
Inmarsat’s worldwide L -band Tactical 
Satellite (L -TAC) service to augment and 
extend their UHF and VHF capabilities, 
allowing them to use existing tactical radios 
over Inmarsat’s L -band satellites – saving 
money and saving lives. When it became 
necessary to move a satellite with active 
L -TAC users over 28,000km from its original 
location over Africa to the Indian Ocean 
region, Inmarsat created 120 customised 
beams and switched their positions on a 
daily basis to maintain coverage over critical 
areas for troops. On the ground, the user 
experience was ‘service as usual’ with no 
unexpected interruptions or degradation 
of service. 44 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRONG PERFORMANCE IN 2015
During the year ended 31 December 2015, total 
reported Group revenue decreased by $11.8m 
(-0.9%) to $1,274.1m (2014: $1,285.9m). After 
excluding the impact of the sale of retail energy-
related assets by Enterprise in 2014 (-$10.8m), 
total Group revenue fell by $1.0m. 
The virtually unchanged underlying revenue 
year-over-year reflects continuing growth in 
Aviation (+$25.7m), Enterprise (+$3.6m) and 
LightSquared revenue (+$13.2m) but a market 
driven decrease in Government (-$33.3m) and a 
small decline in Maritime revenues (-$2.4m). 
Total Group revenue in the year included wholesale 
Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) revenue of 
$832.8m, 5.2% higher than in 2014 ($791.4m), 
with higher wholesale MSS revenue in Maritime 
and Aviation more than offsetting the decline in 
Government wholesale MSS revenue.
($ in millions) 2015 2014 Change
Revenues 1,274.1 1,285.9 (0.9%)
Employee benefit costs (260.4) (237.3) 9.7%
Network and satellite operations costs (180.0) (205.7) (12.5%)
Other operating costs (147.2) (174.1) (15.5%)
Own work capitalised 39.5 32.2 22.7%
Total operating costs (548.1) (584.9) (6.3%)
EBITDA 726.0 701.0 3.6%
Depreciation and amortisation (311.2) (291.8) 3.3%
Gain/(loss) on disposal of assets 9.3 (1.2) (875.0%)
Impairment loss (0.2) (1.3) (84.6%)
Share of profit of associates 2.5 2.6 (3.8%)
Operating profit 426.4 409.3 4.2%
Financing income 1.8 8.1 (77.8%)
Financing costs (90.2) (75.1) 20.1%
Net financing costs (88.4) (67.0) 31.9%
Profit before tax 338.0 342.3 (1.3%)
Taxation charge (56.0) (1.2) 4,566.7%
Profit for the year 282.0 341.1 (17.3%)
GROUP RESULTS
These results give the consolidated operating results and financial condition of Inmarsat plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
TONY BATES CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 45
CENTRAL SERVICES BUSINESS 
UNIT RESULTS
($ in millions)
Year ended 
31 December
Change 2015 2014
Revenue
LightSquared 88.6 75.4 17.5%
Other 19.4 27.2 (28.7%)
Total revenue 108.0 102.6 5.3%
Operating 
costs (249.2) (257.7) (3.3%)
EBITDA (141.2) (155.1) 9.0%
Capital 
expenditure 393.5 332.2 18.5%
Central Services revenue for the year increased 
by $5.4m to $108.0m (2014: $102.6m) and the 
EBITDA net cost for the year decreased by 
$13.9m to $141.2m (2014: $155.1m). This was 
primarily due to increased LightSquared revenue, 
which rose by $13.2m (+17.5%) to $88.6m 
(2014: $75.4m) including the impact of a change 
from cash to accrual revenue recognition as 
LightSquared emerged from bankruptcy and 
obtained new funding. 
In Development and Engineering, management of 
the highly intensive GX project brought I-5 F2 to 
successful launch on 1 February 2015 and I-5 F3 
on 28 August 2015. The construction of I-5 F4 and 
of our S-band satellite for European aviation both 
remain on schedule for completion in 2016. In 
December, we signed a contract with Airbus for 
the delivery of two new Inmarsat-6 (I-6) satellites. 
Service availability levels remained high across all 
our networks and all GX regions integrated into the 
operational network.
Despite the high levels of activity experienced 
across all of the Central Services functions, 
operating costs in the full year decreased by $8.5m 
(-3.3%) to $249.2m (2014: $257.7m), with foreign 
exchange gains in 2015 and one-off inventory write 
downs in 2014 offsetting underlying cost increases 
required to support for the new GX infrastructure.
LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION AGREEMENT
In December 2007, we entered into a Cooperation 
Agreement with LightSquared designed to enable 
ancillary terrestrial component (ATC) services in 
North America, while protecting the continued 
deployment and growth of our own MSS business. 
In May 2012, LightSquared filed for a reorganisation 
under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. For 
the majority of 2015, payments from LightSquared 
were subject to significant uncertainty and so 
Inmarsat only recognised revenue from 
LightSquared when it was received in cash. In 
December 2015 LightSquared emerged from 
bankruptcy protection and raised new capital so 
from the fourth quarter Inmarsat has returned to 
accruals-based accounting. This has resulted in 
the recognition of a further $17.9m of revenue and 
EBITDA in the fourth quarter and in the full year 
2015. This accrued revenue was received from 
LightSquared in January 2016.
At 31 December 2015, deferred income remaining 
in relation to the Cooperation Agreement of 
$208.8m was recorded on the balance sheet. 
Although the cash has been received, the timing 
of the recognition of this deferred income, together 
with any related future costs and taxes, continues 
to be uncertain. 
By the end of March 2016 LightSquared must 
decide the amount of spectrum it wishes to opt for 
under the current Cooperation Agreement. That 
in turn will determine the revenue that will result for 
Inmarsat and the costs and timing of the resulting 
spectrum reorganisation.
Operating costs in the year fell by $36.8m (-6.3%) 
to $548.1m (2014: $584.9m). $9.2m of the 
reduction was related to the sale of retail 
energy-related assets by Enterprise in 2014. The 
remaining $27.6m reduction was due to improved 
product mix, which more than offset the additional 
growth investment in Aviation and the additional 
costs of the new Global Xpress (GX) infrastructure 
as it enters commercial operations. 
EBITDA in the full year increased by $25.0m 
(+3.6%) to $726.0m (2014: $701.0m) and the 
Group’s EBITDA margin increased to 57.0%, from 
54.5% in 2014, reflecting the issues above.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 
$19.4m to $311.2m (2014: $291.8m) reflecting the 
entry into service of the Inmarsat-5 (I-5) satellites, 
with depreciation commencing in December 2014 
for I-5 F1 and December 2015 for I-5 F2 and I-5 F3. 
There was a gain of $9.4m from the disposal of the 
SkyWave investment in the first quarter of 2015 
and the Group operating profit increased by $17.1m 
to $426.4m (2014: $409.3m).
Profit before tax in the year was $338.0m 
(2014: $342.3m).
The tax charge for the year was $56.0m, an 
increase of $54.8m (2014: $1.2m). This increase 
was primarily due to the non-recurrence of the 
2014 release of a $53.1m provision made in 2013 
for a potential tax liability, which was successfully 
settled by the Company in 2014. The underlying 
effective tax rate was 20.8% compared to 21.3% in 
2014, with the reduction being mainly driven by the 
UK tax rate reduction from 21% to 20%.
Profit after tax was $282.0m, compared to $341.1m 
in 2014, and basic earnings per share was 63 cents 
(2014: 76 cents).
($ in millions)
2015
Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation
Central
Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 19.4 1,185.5
LightSquared – – – – 88.6 88.6
Total revenue 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 108.0 1,274.1
($ in millions)
2014
Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation
Central
Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 27.2 1,210.5
LightSquared – – – – 75.4 75.4
Total revenue 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 102.6 1,285.9
REVENUES – BY REPORTING SEGMENT 46 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
PROFIT AFTER TAX
Profit after tax was $282.0m, compared to $341.1m 
in 2014, and basic earnings per share was 63 cents 
(2014: 76 cents).
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per share for profit 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
were 63 cents and 62 cents, respectively, 
compared with 76 cents and 69 cents in 
2014, respectively.
DIVIDENDS
The Board will recommend to shareholders 
that a final dividend of 31.78 cents per share in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 
(2014: 30.26 cents), be paid on 27 May 2016 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register of members 
at the close of business on 13 May 2016.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the final 
dividend payment at the Annual General Meeting 
on 5 May 2016. Dividend payments will be made 
in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate 
prevailing in the London market four business days 
prior to payment.
The 2015 final dividend is not recorded as a liability 
in the financial statements at 31 December 2015. 
The total dividends paid and proposed in respect of 
the year ended 31 December 2015 total 51.39 cents 
per ordinary share, an increase of 5% over 2014.
GROUP CASH FLOW
During the year, free cash flow was $132.4m 
(2014: $150.1m). The decrease over 2014 is primarily 
due to higher capital expenditure (see next page) 
partially offset by more cash generated from 
operations. The prior year change in working capital 
included the release of $43.8m of LightSquared 
deferred income (nothing released in 2015). 
Overdue receivables in 2015 were also reduced by 
around $25m through improved collections.
NET FINANCING COST
The net finance charge in the year increased by 
$21.4m to $88.4m (2014: $67.0m), reflecting 
a number of one-off factors in the prior year 
including an adjustment to the expected maturity 
date of the Convertible Bonds and refinancing of 
the Group’s Senior Notes. The underlying interest 
charge reduced compared to the prior year due to 
two main factors. The new Senior Notes issued in 
June 2014 incur a lower rate of interest and 
capitalised interest was lower as a result of the 
lower interest rate and the delay to I-5 F3. 
TAXATION
The tax charge for 2015 was $56.0m, an increase 
of $54.8m compared with 2014, which resulted in 
an effective tax rate for 2015 of 16.6% compared 
to 0.4% for 2014. This increase was primarily due 
to the 2014 release of a $53.1m provision made in 
2013 for a potential tax liability which had arisen 
in relation to the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
The underlying effective tax rate is 20.8% for 
2015 and 21.3% for 2014. This is calculated after 
excluding the impact of non-recurring items, being 
the revaluation of UK deferred tax balances in 2015 
for the substantively enacted reduction of the UK 
rate of corporation tax to 18% which will take place 
in future periods, and adjustments in respect of 
prior periods (which include the impact of the 
release of the provision for potential tax liabilities 
for 2014 referred to above). 
The remaining difference in the underlying 
effective tax rate between 2014 and 2015 arises 
primarily from the reduction in the UK rate of 
corporation tax from 21% to 20%. With the 
reduction becoming effective on 1 April 2015, this 
had the effect of lowering the average UK statutory 
rate applicable to current year taxable profits to 
20.25% (2014: 21.5%). 
The tax charge for 2015 was in excess of the cash 
tax paid in the year ($12.9m). This arose principally 
due to a refund of UK corporation tax overpaid in 
prior years which was received during 2015.
DISPOSALS
In January 2015, the Group completed the 
sale of its 19% holding in SkyWave Mobile 
Communications to ORBCOMM Inc. for total 
proceeds of $32.9m and recognised an after-tax 
gain of $8.1m. The share sale was one part of a 
suite of agreements with ORBCOMM, covering 
the joint ownership and future development and 
commercialisation of the IsatData Pro technology. 
As part of these agreements the Group acquired 
SkyWave’s satellite network assets, hosted at three 
Inmarsat Satellite Access Stations, for $7.5m.
RECONCILIATION OF EBITDA TO PROFIT 
AFTER TAX
($ in millions)
Year ended 
31 December
Change 2015 2014
EBITDA 726.0 701.0 3.6%
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation (311.2) (291.8) 6.6%
Impairment 
loss (0.2) (1.3) (84.6%)
Other 11.8 1.4 742.9%
Operating 
profit 426.4 409.3 4.2%
Net financing 
costs (88.4) (67.0) 31.9%
Taxation 
charge (56.0) (1.2) 4,566.7%
Profit for the 
period 282.0 341.1 (17.3%)
OPERATING PROFIT
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 
$19.4m to $311.2m (2014: $291.8m) as the I-5 
satellites entered commercial service in December 
2015. Other balances refer to the gain on disposal 
of the SkyWave investment and the share of profit 
of associates for the year.
As a result of the factors discussed above, 
operating profit for the year was $426.4m, an 
increase of $17.1m (4.2%), compared with 2014. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED
The Group has cash and cash 
equivalents of $177 .3m at year 
end and available but undrawn 
borrowing facilities of $578.9m. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 47
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
The table below shows the condensed consolidated 
Group balance sheet:
($ in millions)
At 31 December
2015 2014
Non-current assets 3,712.3 3,510.9
Current assets 533.8 581.0
Total assets 4,246.1 4,091.9
Current liabilities (719.6) (682.7)
Non-current 
liabilities (2,276.6) (2,226.1)
Total liabilities (2,996.2) (2,908.8)
Net assets 1,249.9 1,183.1
The increase in the Group’s non-current assets of 
$201.4m is largely due to our ongoing investment 
in the GX infrastructure and the development of 
our new S-band programme, less depreciation. 
Over $340m was invested in these two 
programmes during 2015. 
The net decrease in current assets of $47.2m is due 
to a number of factors including a decrease in cash 
and cash equivalents of $27.1m to $177.3m, and a 
decrease in assets held for sale to nil at December 
2015 (2014: $32.9m). The prior year balance 
related to the SkyWave disposal that had been 
remeasured to fair value. Partially offsetting these 
was an increase in trade and other receivables by 
$19.3m to $324.7m (2014: $305.4m), primarily 
attributable to the accrual of LightSquared 
revenue due on 31 December 2015. 
The increase in current liabilities of $36.9m to 
$719.6m (2014: $682.7m) is mainly due to three 
issues. The current tax liability increased by 
$41.9m, representing a current tax charge in excess 
of payments made in the year, principally due to 
a refund of corporation tax overpaid in prior years. 
Current borrowings increased by $11.3m due to 
drawdowns on the 2011 Ex-Im Bank Facility which 
has commenced its repayment period of equal 
semi-annual instalments. Partially offsetting these 
increases was a $10.0m reduction in trade and 
other payables. 
The increase in non-current liabilities of $50.5m 
is primarily due to an increase in non-current 
borrowings of $46.7m to $2,033.7m 
(2014: $1,987.0m) at 31 December 2015. There 
were three main components of this increase; 
a net increase in drawdowns on the Ex-Im Bank 
Facilities of $77.2m (a portion of which is sitting 
in current borrowings and discussed above), 
accretion of $25.6m on the Convertible Bonds, 
offset by a $44.0m repayment and reduction in 
the EIB Facility.
TONY BATES
Chief Financial Officer
3 March 2016
‘Success-based capex’ consists of capital 
equipment installed on ships, aircraft and other 
customer platforms. This expenditure ties closely 
to near term new revenues. In 2015 this principally 
relates to expenditure on fitting out ships with 
maritime customer equipment, but going forward 
will also include an increasing amount of aircraft 
fit-out costs.
‘Other’ capex investments consists primarily of 
maintenance, IT and capitalised R&D costs. In 2015 
this investment was spread across a number of 
projects, the most material of which pertained to 
the development of RFIC technology, costs 
associated with creating a fourth full service 
L -band region, and enhancements to the Group’s 
billing and accounting systems.
GROUP LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL 
RESOURCES
At 31 December 2015, the Group had cash and cash 
equivalents of $177.3m and available but undrawn 
borrowing facilities of $578.9m under our Senior 
Credit Facility and the 2014 Ex-Im Bank Facility.
The Group maintains tax provisions in respect of 
ongoing enquiries with tax authorities. In the event 
all such enquiries were settled as currently provided 
for, we estimate that the Group would incur a cash 
tax outflow of approximately $80.0m in 2016 or 
2017. The enquiries remain ongoing at this time.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
In order to assist investors’ further understanding 
of capital expenditure we report capital expenditure 
broken down into three main categories of 
investment, shown in the table below. 
($ in millions)
Year ended 31 December
2015 2014
Major infrastructure 
projects
(1)
354.1 256.9
Success-based 
capex
(1)
29.1 25.8
Other (eg 
maintenance, product 
development, R&D)
(1)
78.6 100.1
Cash flow timing
(2)
31.8 22.9
Total cash capital 
expenditure 493.6 405.7
(1) Capital expenditure is shown on an accruals basis, 
excluding capitalised interest.
(2) Cash flow timing represents the difference 
between accrued capex and the actual cash flows.
‘Major infrastructure projects’ capex consists of 
satellite design, build and launch costs and ground 
network infrastructure costs. 2015 expenditure in 
this category included expenditure on the I-5 and 
S-band satellites and an initial investment in two 
I-6 satellites.
($ in millions)
Year ended 31 December
2015 2014
EBITDA 726.0 701.0
Non-cash items 15.7 17.2
Change in working capital (24.7) (64.8)
Cash generated from operations 717.0 653.4
Capital expenditure (493.6) (405.7)
Net interest paid (78.1) (88.1)
Tax paid (12.9) (9.5)
Free cash flow 132.4 150.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments – (46.2)
Proceeds on disposal of assets 32.9 27.5
Dividends paid (223.7) (212.6)
Other movement including foreign exchange 2.4 0.1
Net cash flow (56.0) (81.1)
Increase in cash from borrowings 26.3 144.7
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29.7) 63.6
Opening net borrowings 1,900.7 1,812.8
Net cash flow 56.0 81.1
Non-cash movements
(1)
29.1 6.8
Closing net borrowings 1,985.8 1,900.7
(1) Includes the impact of deferred financing costs and a non-recurring credit in 2014 to re-base the convertible bonds.
GROUP CASH FLOW 48 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
RISK MANAGEMENT
Business Plan and risk management processes 
particularly, the Board will determine the level of 
risk carried and the extent of mitigating activity 
required to deliver an acceptable level of net risk.
The Board defines the risk governance framework 
and sets the overall risk strategy and the Audit 
Committee reviews the risk management 
framework and the effectiveness of internal 
controls particularly with regard to financial 
controls. This includes reviewing the internal audit 
programme and related reports to ensure that 
all key mitigating controls are being regularly 
assessed and where issues are identified that they 
are being addressed on a timely basis. Assurance 
on broader risk controls is provided by a 
combination of internal management information, 
internal audits, external audits and Board 
oversight. There is also an externally supported 
whistleblowing facility.
The management of risk is embedded in our 
everyday business activities and culture, with all 
our employees having an important role to play. 
The diligence applied by staff to consider risk is 
reflected in business cases which are submitted 
for approval across the company, and ongoing 
projects have risks reported on a regular basis. 
both before and after mitigation. This helps the 
business understand both what risks it is continuing 
to carry but also where the key mitigating controls 
are within the business. These risk registers are 
consolidated in a robust and systematic way to 
identify the Group’s principal risks. The key Group 
risks are further discussed and reviewed by the 
Executive Management Team, who are also 
responsible for reviewing their own risk areas. Each 
quarter, the resulting risk summary is distributed to 
and discussed by the Audit Committee and the 
Board, who has overall responsibility for the risk 
management framework. 
During 2015 the risk management process has 
been reviewed and a number of updates made. 
The Board as part of the year-end process has 
considered top down risks particularly those that 
lie outside the normal operations of the business 
so may be overlooked by the bottom up risk 
assessment process. Secondly risks are now 
formally considered on both a gross and a net basis 
after mitigation. Finally, an increased emphasis is 
being placed on how risks, once identified, are 
managed through effective mitigation. 
The Board regularly considers the risks faced by 
the business, and the actions being taken to 
mitigate those risks. As part of the Long Range 
RISK FRAMEWORK
Effective risk management is fundamental to our 
ability to meet both our short-term and longer-
term strategic objectives. The Group’s approach 
to risk is brought together in an overarching risk 
management policy. As well as setting out how 
risk is managed the policy sets out the Group’s 
tolerance for risk and how this is measured across 
identified macro and business risks. We identify and 
monitor financial and non-financial risks facing the 
business. The Board believes that the behaviour of 
individuals across the business in key to under-
pinning an effective risk management culture. 
Across the Group an investment has been made 
in the articulation and communication of the 
Inmarsat values in helping promote the right set 
of values to support effective risk management.
As required by the policy, management operates a 
risk management process to identify, evaluate and 
report significant risks within the business and to 
report to the Board on how those risks are being 
managed. Risks are initially identified and reviewed 
in each business area, then on a quarterly basis 
risk registers are formally reviewed by senior 
management on a central Risk Committee 
represented by each component part of the 
business. As part of this review, risks are scored in 
terms of probability of occurrence and value at risk, 
INMARSAT PLC BOARD
 > Defines the risk governance 
framework, risk culture and principles
 > Sets overall risk strategy and policy
 > Approves risk levels
 > Responsible for an effective system 
of internal controls
 > Approves risk decisions that are 
beyond delegated authorities
AUDIT COMMITTEE
 > Reviews the risk management 
framework and the effectiveness of 
internal controls, risk management 
systems and major risk initiatives
 > Reviews the internal audit 
programme and reports
RISK COMMITTEE
 > Reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and makes recommendations to 
management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls
 > Reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies
 > Assesses major risk-related projects
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
 > Implement mitigation strategies
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
 > Review the risk management 
framework and the effectiveness of 
internal controls, risk management 
systems and major risk initiatives 
across the Group
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 49
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
We show against each risk how it links to our strategy (see page 20) and the movement of each risk during the year.
MOVEMENT DURING YEAR
INCREASED RISK IN 2015
NO CHANGE IN 2015
DECREASED RISK IN 2015
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
1 L -BAND GROWTH
2 GROWTH AND DIVERSITY VIA GX
3 GROWTH AND DIVERSITY VIA S-BAND
4 CREATION OF A SOLUTIONS ECOSYSTEM
SATELLITES AND OUR NETWORK LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
Our satellites and network fail to operate 
effectively which affects revenues and 
our reputation
We face risks when we launch our satellites and 
while they are in operation. There are only a few 
companies who provide service to build and 
launch our satellites and if they encounter 
problems our launch may be delayed or fail. 
Our network may also not be able to cope with 
the demand from users.
We have our resident quality assurance teams to 
oversee the manufacture and assembly of our 
satellites and launch vehicles. Our control centre 
has highly trained professionals with significant 
experience in operating satellites who constantly 
monitor satellite performance and ensure any 
necessary action is taken promptly. We have 
launch and in-orbit insurance in place. Our 
network is designed to accommodate surges in 
traffic demand by flexibly deploying capacity to 
those places in need.
In identifying the principal risks set out below we 
have disclosed those risks that we currently consider 
to be the most significant to the Group at the date of 
this Annual Report. These principal risks are also 
linked to our strategic objectives (page 20).
At the end of 2015, we reviewed our key risks and 
this has led to a more streamlined set of principal 
risks from the prior year; this has led to a number 
of risks being characterised as secondary risks. 
These include legal, regulatory and compliance; 
the relationship with LightSquared; taxation and 
capital funding; the effectiveness of core business 
systems and processes; and the retention and 
motivation of management and employees. 
The gross risk movement from prior year for each 
principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed as 
either no change; an increased gross risk exposure 
or a reduced gross risk exposure. 
The key principal risks identified are shown below:
uncertainties influencing our performance are 
macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance 
of businesses generally, others are particular to our 
operations in mobile satellite services.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Board has 
taken into consideration the principal risks in the 
context of determining whether to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting and when assessing 
the prospects of the Company for the purpose of 
preparing the viability statement which can be 
found on page 51. The going concern statement in 
provided on page 55 in the Report of the Directors.
Our principal risks and uncertainties are discussed 
on the next few pages and are as summarised in 
the Preliminary Results Statement distributed on 
3 March 2016. These have been subject to robust 
assessment and review. This summary, however, is 
not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks 
and uncertainties affecting our business and are 
not listed in any order of priority. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties 
that may adversely affect our business, operations, 
liquidity, financial position or future performance, not 
all of which are wholly within our control or known to 
us. Some such risks may currently be regarded as 
immaterial and could turn out to be material. We 
accept risk is an inherent part of doing business; and 
we manage the risks based on a balance of risk and 
reward determined through careful assessment of 
both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk 
appetite. We consider reputational as well as financial 
impact, recognising the value attributable to our 
brand. The Group faces a number of ongoing 
operational risks including litigation, credit and 
foreign exchange risk and the risks associated with 
dealing with tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions. In 
addition the Group is exposed to a broader set of less 
well defined risks including reputational risk of those 
risks relating to the global economy. The importance 
of these risks will vary over time and will be kept under 
constant review. Although many of the risks and  50 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NEXT GENERATION SERVICES LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
Our product and service innovation fail to meet 
market and customer expectations
We may fail to critically assess our market, 
technological changes, customer requirements 
and competitors’ strategy and to exploit market 
opportunities. We may develop next generation 
services that will not meet these market 
opportunities, or these developments could have 
delays or cost overruns impacting on our market 
position, revenue or returns on investment.
We have professional, experienced teams who 
focus on large-scale programmes and develop 
close relationships with third parties we use to 
deliver them. We critically review our detailed 
business cases before we proceed and regularly 
assess our progress against the original business 
cases. We thoroughly review and approve major 
development of new services or technology. We 
work closely with our partners to ensure our 
services and technology meet the demand of our 
customers, to identify new customers and to 
migrate existing customers who would benefit from 
our new services.
Our significant programmes currently underway 
are: GX programme for high throughput mobile 
broadband service using Inmarsat-5 satellite 
Ka-band capacity, S-band satellite programme 
for aviation passenger connectivity and 
Inmarsat-6 satellite programme to expand our 
L -band/Ka-band capacity to provide new and 
more advanced services.
SPECTRUM LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
Our ability to use spectrum changes and 
affects our ability to provide our service and 
generate revenues
We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically 
been allocated without charge, to provide our 
services. We must agree how it is used in 
coordination with other satellite operators. We 
may not be able to coordinate usage in the future 
and/or may be charged for the spectrum which 
could affect our ability to provide services.
We regularly improve the efficiency of our 
spectrum usage through innovation and system 
enhancement. We also educate and inform 
regulators and governments as to the unique 
socio-economic contribution of our mobile 
satellite services.
CYBER SECURITY LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
Our cyber security systems do not protect our 
business operations robustly
Our satellites, networks, systems and processes 
may be vulnerable to security risks from 
unauthorised access, computer viruses, denial 
of services and other security attacks. Our 
customers may not use our services if we could not 
demonstrate that our services are reliable and 
meet certain cyber security requirements.
We have implemented industry-standard security 
measures, and have increased our investment in 
state-of-the-art cyber countermeasures and 
enhanced cyber security operations to improve 
detection and response to incidences.
CRITICAL CUSTOMERS LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
If our distributors fail to effectively distribute our 
services this can affect revenue generation
We rely on our distribution channel for part of 
our revenue and they might not sell our services 
effectively or competitively. We provide our 
services to many government organisations 
around the world which may have conflicting 
requirements, and our revenue may be affected by 
governments’ reduction in spending and their 
other political priorities.
We build strong relationships with all our partners 
and provide them with excellent services to sell 
in their markets. We encourage sharing of 
information and developing ideas through direct 
meetings with our partners and through our 
regional and global conferences. 
We continue to improve the reliability of our 
satellites and services which are critical to our 
users. We have introduced new services including 
GX services, which are well suited to our 
customers.
RISK MANAGEMENT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 51
CRITICAL SUPPLIERS LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: 
RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION
If key suppliers fail to meet our requirements, 
we may not deliver best value for our business
We rely on a limited number of third-party 
suppliers and partners in the production of our 
satellites, systems, terminals and products and we 
may have limited control over availability, quality 
and delivery.
We work closely with our suppliers to review 
programme plans, delivery quality and timing to 
ensure that they meet our requirements.
CONCLUSION
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm 
that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 
31 December 2018.
The Group is exposed to particularly high levels 
of risk when a satellite is launched though this is 
routinely mitigated through launch insurance, 
for which there is a well-developed market. Once 
satellites have been successfully placed into orbit, 
the experience of the last 35 years is that failures 
are rare, which is due in part to the high levels 
of redundancy that are routinely built into the 
satellites and ground network. Looking beyond the 
risks associated with the satellites and our network 
the geographical and sector diversification of the 
Group’s operations help minimise the risk of a loss 
that might endanger the viability of the Group. 
ASSESSMENT PROCESS
The Long Range Business Plan (the Plan), which is 
updated annually, formed the basis for the viability 
assessment. The Plan, as a matter of routine, takes 
account of ‘business as usual risks’ including slower 
revenue growth, increased operating costs, higher 
working capital requirements and adverse 
outcomes to disputed items. In completing the 
viability assessment, the Plan was tested against 
a number of severe but plausible principal risk 
scenarios. Each scenario was tested and the 
financial impact estimated based upon a 
combination of internal estimates and data 
available from reliable external sources. Mitigation 
strategies were identified and costed in conjunction 
with internal experts to calculate the net likely 
financial impact of each scenario. When 
determining the scenarios each of the principal 
risks was considered with satellites and network, 
cyber, critical partners and political risks identified 
for more extensive stress testing. The Audit 
Committee reviewed and discussed the process 
undertaken by management.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors 
have assessed the viability of the Group over a 
three-year period, taking into account the Group’s 
current position and the potential impact of the 
principal risks documented on pages 49 to 51 of 
the Annual Report. 
ASSESSMENT PERIOD
The Directors have determined that a three-year 
period to 31 December 2018 is an appropriate 
period over which to provide its viability statement. 
This is the key period of focus within the Group’s 
strategic planning process and it reflects the period 
over which the Group has reasonable visibility 
of both customer contracts and product 
development programmes. It is also consistent 
with the period over which the business provides 
guidance to the market on future revenue and 
capital expenditure.  52  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. ANDREW SUKAWATY
NON-EXECUTIVE  CHAIRMAN  Date of Appointment :   Non-Executive Chairman – January 2015
Executive Chairman – January 2012 to December 2014
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer – March 2004 to December 2011
Chairman – December 2003
Committee  Membership:  Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 
and member of the Nominations Committee
Background and relevant experience: Andy served as Non-Executive 
Chairman of Ziggo N.V. until November 2014. He has previously been President 
and Chief Executive Officer of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless 
carrier and Chief Executive Officer of NTL Limited. He also held various 
management positions with US West and AT&T and been a Non-Executive 
Director on various listed companies. Andy holds a BBA and MBA respectively 
from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
External  Appointments:  
Executive in Residence for Warburg Pincus. 
Senior Independent Director of Sky Plc.
2. RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   Date of Appointment:
Executive Director – July 2011
Chief Executive Officer – January 2012 
Background and relevant experience: Rupert has been Inmarsat’s Chief 
Executive Officer since January 2012. He joined Inmarsat in January 2005 as 
Group General Counsel and from January 2009, additionally held the position 
of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat Enterprises. Previously, Rupert worked for 
Atlas Venture, where he was a partner working with the firm’s European and US 
investment teams. Before Atlas Venture, he was also a partner at the 
international law firm Linklaters, where he spent 13 years specialising in 
corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions and private equity transactions. 
Rupert received an MA (First Class) in Modern History from Oxford University 
and won the 1995 Fullbright Fellowship in US securities law, studying at the 
Georgetown Law Center. He has been a visiting fellow of the Imperial College 
Business School, London, lecturing on the school’s Entrepreneurship 
programme, and is the co-author of ‘Raising Venture Capital’ (Wiley).
External  Appointments:  None.
3. TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Date of Appointment: June 2014
Background and relevant experience: Tony was previously the Group CFO of 
hibu plc (previously Yell Group Plc) where he played a leading role in the 
multi-billion pound refinancing of the Group and in the delivery of a much lower 
cost operating model. Prior to hibu, Tony was Chief Operating Officer of Colt 
Group S.A., the pan-European business telecoms operator. His previous senior 
management experience was mainly with EMI Group Plc, latterly as Group 
Finance Director. Tony holds a First Class Honours degree in Management 
Sciences from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and 
Technology. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales.
External  Appointments:  None.
4. SIMON BAX
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2013
Committee  Membership:  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Background and relevant experience: Simon Bax was, from 2008 to 2013, 
CEO of Encompass Digital Media Inc, which provides technical services to 
broadcasters, cable networks and government agencies. He previously served 
as CFO and Executive Vice President of Pixar Animation and CFO and President 
of Studio Operations of Fox Filmed Entertainment. Simon holds an Honours 
degree in History from Cambridge University and is a chartered accountant.
External  Appointments:  
Chairman of WiSpire Limited.
Chairman of Archant Limited.
Director of Archant Employee Benefit Trustee Company Limited.
Non-Executive Director of SVG Capital Plc.
Director of the British Bobsleigh and Skeleton Association. 
Member of the Gonville and Caius Development Campaign Board.
Member of the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences.
Member of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
1.
9.
2.
10.
3.
11.
4.
12. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 53
5. SIR BRYAN CARSBERG
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2005
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Telecoms 
Regulatory Committees
Background and relevant experience: Sir Bryan is a Chartered Accountant. 
He served eight years as Director General of Telecommunications (head of 
Oftel), and then served as Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary 
General of the International Accounting Standards Board. He was previously 
Chairman of the Council of Loughborough University, a Non-Executive Director 
of Cable and Wireless Communications plc, RM plc and Non-Executive 
Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited. He was knighted in January 1989. Sir Bryan 
is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and holds an MSc (Econ) 
from the University of London.
External  Appointments:  
Non-Executive Director of Actual Experience plc.
6. STEPHEN DAVIDSON
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2005
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees
Background and relevant experience: Stephen held various positions in 
Investment Banking, finally at WestLB Panmure where he was Global Head of 
Media and Telecoms and Vice Chairman of Investment Banking. From 1993 to 
1998 Stephen was Finance Director, then Chief Executive Officer of Telewest 
Communications plc. He was Chairman of the Cable Communications 
Association from 1996 to 1998. Stephen holds a First Class Honours degree in 
Mathematics and Statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
External  Appointments:  
Non-Executive Chairman of Datatec Ltd.
Non-Executive Chairman of Actual Experience plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of PRS for Music.
Non-Executive Director of Restore Plc.
Deputy Chairman of Jaywing Group plc.
Director of Informa plc.
7. KATHLEEN FLAHERTY
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2006
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Remuneration Committee 
Background and relevant experience: Kathleen served on the Board of a 
number of public companies including Marconi Corporation plc, Telent plc and 
CMS Energy Corporation. She was President and Chief Operating Officer of 
Winstar International. Her previous career has included senior roles as Chief 
Marketing Officer with AT&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI 
Communications Inc. Kathleen was a Non-Executive Director of GenTek Inc 
until October 2009 and hibu plc until March 2014. Kathleen holds a PhD in 
Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences from Northwestern 
University, Illinois.
External  Appointments:  A member emeritus of the McCormick Advisory 
Board and its executive committee of Northwestern University.
8. GENERAL C. ROBERT KEHLER (RTD)
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2014
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Remuneration Committee 
Background and relevant experience: General Kehler retired from the US Air 
Force in January 2014 with over 38 years’ service. He oversaw a global network 
of satellite command and control, communications, missile warning and launch 
facilities, and ensured the combat readiness of America’s intercontinental 
ballistic missile force. Over his career, he served in a variety of important 
operational and staff assignments, and successfully led large organisations 
with global responsibilities.
External  Appointments:  
Proxy board of directors of BEI Precision Systems and Space Company. 
Trustee of the Mitre Corporation.
Member of the Advisory Board for Outreach and Online Education of the 
Pennsylvania State University.
Senior advisor to McKinsey and Company.
Special advisor to Northrop Grumman Corporation.
5.
13.
6. 7. 8. 54  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
12. DR HAMADOUN TOURÉ
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR  Date of Appointment: March 2015
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Nominations and Telecoms 
Regulatory Committees
Background and relevant experience: Hamadoun was Secretary General of 
the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the specialised agency of 
the United Nations dedicated to information and communication technologies 
from 2007 to 2014. As such he was a Member of the UN Chief Executive Board 
(CEB) and served as Chairman of the UN ICT Network. He was the founding 
member of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development and served as 
co-vice chair until his retirement from the ITU. In October 2015 Hamadoun was 
appointed as Founding Executive Director of SMART Africa Alliance. He was a 
Member of the Advisory Board of the International Multilateral Partnership 
Against Cyber Threats (IMPACT) until December 2014. He has also had a 
distinguished career in the satellite industry. Hamadoun holds a Master’s 
Degree in Electrical Engineering from the Telecommunications Institute of 
St-Petersburg (Russian Federation) and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from 
the University of Informatics and Telecoms of Moscow (Russian Federation).
External  Appointments:  Founding Executive Director of SMART Africa Alliance.
Founder of 7Star Holding.
13. ALISON HORROCKS
CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER AND COMPANY SECRETARY   Date of Appointment: February 1999
Background and relevant experience: Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and 
provides corporate governance advice and acts as Company Secretary to the 
Board and its Committees. She is a member of the Executive Management Board 
and Chairman of the Trustee Company responsible for the Inmarsat UK pension 
plans. Alison is a Fellow of the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. She was 
Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide 
public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
External  Appointments:  None.
9. AMBASSADOR JANICE OBUCHOWSKI
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: May 2009
Committee  Membership:  Member of the Audit Committee 
Background and relevant experience: Janice held several senior positions 
both in the US Government and in the private sector. She was formerly Head of 
Delegation and US Ambassador to the World Radiocommunications 
Conference, Assistant Secretary for Communications and information at the 
Department of Commerce and Senior Advisor to the Chairman at the Federal 
Communications Commission in the US.
External  Appointments:  President of Freedom Technologies Inc.
Non-Executive Director of Orbital ATK. 
Non-Executive Director of CSG Systems, Inc. 
10. DR ABRAHAM PELED
SENIOR  INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR
Date of Appointment: June 2013
Committee  Membership:  Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Background and relevant experience: In November 2015 Abe was appointed 
our Senior Independent Director. Abe was Chief Executive Officer of NDS Group 
plc from 1995 to 2012, a digital pay-TV technology company, and served as 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 to 2012. He was Senior Vice 
President of Cisco from August 2012 to January 2014 and has previous senior 
management experience with IBM and Elron. Abe has a BSc and MSc in 
Electrical Engineering and a PhD in Digital Signal Processing. In March 2013, 
Abe was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by Digital TV Europe.
External  Appointments:  Partner of CyberCloud Ventures.
Senior advisor on technology businesses to Permira.
Chairman of TeamViewer GmbH.
Member of the Operating Committee of Metalogix Inc.
11. ROBERT RUIJTER
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR  Date of Appointment: February 2015
Committee  Membership:  Chairman of the Audit Committee
Background and relevant experience: Rob served as Chief Financial Officer 
of VNU N.V., a publicly listed marketing and publishing company (now the 
Nielsen company) between 2004 and 2007. He previously served as the Chief 
Finance Officer of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines from 2001 until its merger with Air 
France in 2004, and as Chief Finance Officer of ASM International N.V., a 
publicly listed manufacturer of electronic components. Rob is a Certified Public 
Accountant in the United States and in The Netherlands and a member of the 
ACT in the UK.
External  Appointments:  Member of the Supervisory Board of Wavin N.V.
Member of the Supervisory Board of Ziggo N.V.
Non-Executive Director of Interxion N.V.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Delta Lloyd N.V.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
CONTINUED
BOARD DIVERSITY
BOARD  EXPERIENCE
 > Regulatory
 > Marketing
 > Government
 > Telecommunications
 > Technology
 > Financial management
 > Developing economies
 > Manufacturing
 > Cyber security
 > Customer service management
BOARD  COMPOSITION
Executive:  2  Male: 10
Non-Executive:  10  Female:  2
BOARD TENURE
0-3 Years:  6  4-8 Years:  2  9+ Years:  4
NATIONALITIES
      The Netherlands  UK  Mali  US FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 55
INTEREST CAPITALISATION
The Group capitalised $35.3m during the period under review. The $35.3m of 
interest capitalised in the period has been treated as fully tax deductible in 
the UK.
BRANCHES
The Group has activities operated through many jurisdictions. 
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES
The Company’s ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE: ISAT.L). Details of the issued share capital of the 
Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year, 
can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed 
income. On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share of 
Euro 0.0005 held. All 138,086 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee 
Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer of 
shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of 
Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any 
arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
GOING CONCERN   The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern. Despite the 
current volatility in financial markets and uncertain economic outlook, the 
Directors believe that the Group has a resilient business model, strong free cash 
flow generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants. In making their 
assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved 
budget, the rolling forecast, the cash flow forecast and the most recent 
five-year long range business plan. In addition, the Directors considered the 
maturity profile of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual and 
forecast covenant calculations. Furthermore, the forecasts and covenant 
calculations were stress tested by applying a set of downside scenarios. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The viability report containing a broader assessment by the Board of the 
Company’s ongoing viability is set out on page 51. 
ON-MARKET PURCHASE AUTHORITY
The Directors’ authorities are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of 
Association. At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders 
to allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make 
market purchases of ordinary shares. Shareholders are being requested to 
renew these authorities at the 2016 AGM.
INDEMNITIES  AND  INSURANCE
Details of the Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and the indemnities 
provided to the Directors, Company Secretary and certain employees where 
they serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Group’s request are provided on 
page 62 in the Corporate governance report.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within 
Companies Act 2006 and forms part of the management report as required 
under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4. Certain information that fulfils the 
requirements of the Report of the Directors can be found elsewhere in this 
document and is referred to below. This information is incorporated into the 
Report of the Directors by reference.
Set out below is the relevant information required to be disclosed in the Report 
of the Directors in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
As required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules a statement made by 
the Board regarding the preparation of the financial statements is set out on 
page 93.
BUSINESS REVIEW, STRATEGIC REPORT AND FUTURE   DEVELOPMENTS
The Business reviews are set out on pages 28 to 43 and the Strategic Report is 
set out in pages 1 to 51 and they are incorporated into this Report by reference. 
These sections also provide details of likely future developments within 
the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain 
parts of the Corporate governance report to be outlined in the Report of the 
Directors. This information is laid out in the Corporate governance report on 
pages 58 to 71.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There were no such events required to be disclosed.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on 
page 100.
A final dividend of 31.78 cents will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on 
the share register at the close of business on 13 May 2016. Dividend payments 
are made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the 
London market four business days prior to payment.
From 6 April 2016 the Dividend Tax Credit will be replaced by a new Dividend 
Allowance in the form of a 0% tax rate on the first £5,000 of dividend income 
per year. Full details of the change and how this may affect your dividend 
payment in May 2016 will be included in the Annual Report mailing.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
ALISON  HORROCKS
CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER AND COMPANY SECRETARY TOTAL EMISSIONS 2015 
(tCO 2e)
Scope 1
Scope 3
Scope 2
1,741
9,562
15,810
EMISSIONS INTENSITY – SCOPE 1 and 2 
(tCO 2e/million MB)
FY2014 FY2015
39.8
27.8
56  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
CONTINUED
reporting. Our Scope 3 emissions have increased significantly, primarily as a 
result of increased business travel associated with two satellite launches that 
occurred in 2015, as well as a number of new projects in various locations 
around the globe.
 
METHODOLOGY
We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions according to ISO 
14064-1:2006. Consumption data has been collated by our energy consultant, 
Carbon Credentials, and has been converted into CO
2
 equivalent using the UK 
Government 2015 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting in order to 
calculate emissions from corresponding activity data. We have also utilised 
certain data used for compliance with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and 
the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) when compiling our GHG 
disclosure. 
REPORTING BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS
We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational 
control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 10% for GHG 
reporting purposes. As a result, emissions from locations with fewer than 15 
staff on-site have been reasonably estimated as immaterial and are thus 
excluded from our GHG disclosure. Emissions for all significant sites have been 
disclosed, which includes our top five highest consuming locations: Perth 
(Australia), London (United Kingdom), Burum (The Netherlands), Paumalu 
(United States) and Palm Bay (United States).
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2015 
reporting period are: 
 > Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, gas oil combustion within 
generators, road fuel combustion within vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants 
from air-conditioning equipment.
 > Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use.
 > Scope 3: Business travel, water, and waste.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Details of the employment policies and employee involvement are provided in 
the Resources and relationships section of this Report and are also in the 
Corporate governance report.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SCHEMES
Details of the long-term incentive schemes can be found on page 92 of the 
Remuneration report.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for its 
employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by its business 
activities. During 2015, we have continued to work closely with our subsidiary 
companies to harmonise health and safety best practice. Rupert Pearce, our 
CEO, is the Director designated for health and safety matters at Board level.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGY   We operate in over 50 locations with a combined workforce of approximately 
1,700 staff. Due to our diversity of activities the Company recognises it has 
some impacts affecting the local and global environment. However, it should 
be noted that the satellite industry and our own business is low on the scale of 
carbon generators. We have provided details of our objectives for how we 
manage our environmental activities on page 27. The information below 
summarises the report generated over the year regarding our 
actual performance.
Our environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the 
consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, as well 
as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
All energy, fuel and waste management activities are controlled by the Business 
Environment team which is based in London.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to 
report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the years ended 
31 December 2015 and 2014: 
Global greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO 2e) 2015 2014
Combustion of fuel and operation of 
facilities (Scope 1) 1,741 1,822
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for our own use (Scope 2) 15,810 16,397
Total Scope 1 and 2 17,551 18,219
GHG emissions intensity: tCO
2
e per 
million megabytes of IP over our BGAN 
network 27.8 39.8
Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 9,562 3,392
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK are reported in tCO 2 
rather than tCO 2e because UK Government emissions factors for overseas electricity 
currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only. The emissions intensity calculation 
is based on a figure of 630.6 million MB of IP.
Since 2014 our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions have decreased by 4%. This 
decrease in emissions has occurred despite a large increase in activity over our 
BGAN network. Consequently, our emissions intensity has decreased 30% from 
39.8 to 27.8 tCO
2
e per million MB of IP over our BGAN network. 
We have also chosen to voluntarily disclose a selection of our Scope 3 
emissions. This year we have expanded the scope of this to include water and 
waste, in addition to business travel which we had been previously been  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 57
RULES GOVERNING DIRECTORS’ APPOINTMENTS
Rules governing Directors’ appointments are provided on page 66 of the 
Corporate governance report.
DIRECTORS’  POWER
Details of Directors’ powers are provided on pages 60 and 61 of the Corporate 
governance report.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below:
Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, Tony Bates, Stephen Davidson, Janice 
Obuchowski, Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd), Sir Bryan 
Carsberg, Dr Abe Peled, Robert Ruijter, Simon Bax and Dr Hamadoun Touré. 
John Rennocks was a Director for part of 2015.
Details of each Director’s interests in the Company’s ordinary shares and share 
awards held are set out in full on page 91. 
Details of the Directors’ conflicts of interest policy are provided on pages 62. 
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Articles of Association can be amended by special resolution of 
the shareholders.
AUDITOR
Each of the Directors has confirmed that:
 > so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and
 > the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a 
Director to make him/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to 
authorise the Board of Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed 
at the 2016 AGM.
 
2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 May 2016 at 10.00am at 99 City 
Road, London EC1Y 1AX. The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions 
to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
ALISON HORROCKS FCIS
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer  
and Company Secretary
3 March 2016
ASSUMPTIONS  AND  ESTIMATIONS
In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation of 
available data from the reporting period or data from 2014 as a proxy. 
Furthermore, due to improved emissions calculation processes and the 
introduction of additional emissions sources we have also restated the 
emissions figures for 2014. This allows us to make a more accurate comparison 
of performance between 2014 and 2015. 
IMPROVING  PERFORMANCE
Since establishing our global environmental data programme in 2014 with 
Carbon Credentials, we have expanded the scope of this programme; with 
quarterly reporting of energy consumption and emissions at several sites. 
The purpose of this is to continually monitor consumption in order to identify 
opportunities to improve energy performance. We have also begun to monitor 
additional environmental impacts, such as water and waste, where this data 
is available.
In 2015 we submitted a response to the CDP Climate Change programme 
gaining a score of 95 C. Within this disclosure we reported the key business risks 
and opportunities that climate change presents to Inmarsat.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Details of principal risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 49 to 51.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, 
including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in notes 3 and 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary to 
support its activities through research and development programmes.
POLITICAL  DONATIONS
During the year, no political donations were made. It remains the policy of the 
Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure. 
However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the 
best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to 
participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its 
business. To avoid inadvertent infringement of the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked annually to give authority at the 
Annual General Meeting for the Company to make political donations and to 
incur political expenditure.
INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS
As at 3 March 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance with 
chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following significant interests:
Shareholder
Percentage of voting rights over 
ordinary shares of €0.0005 each 
Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.72%
BlackRock Inc 7.51%
Aberdeen Asset Managers 5.00%
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.82%
Artemis Investment Management 3.70%
AXA Investment Management 3.39%
Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the 
Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 3 March 2016. 58  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CHAIRMAN’S  INTRODUCTION
Your Board manages the Inmarsat business in a transparent, open and honest 
manner. We achieve this by maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our 
activities: for delivering our strategy and financial performance in the 
long-term interests of the Company, for efficiently using our resources and 
having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters. 
The Board approves the Group’s governance framework with the Board 
Committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as 
remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management. 
Our governance framework includes the changes introduced by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Report) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
(the Regulations). We comply with the Code with one exception that I, as 
Chairman, was not considered independent on appointment because I was 
previously an executive director. However we have a strong Senior Independent 
Director, Dr Abe Peled, who provides additional independence to respond to any 
shareholder queries. This independence was previously provided by John 
Rennocks who also had the title of Deputy Chairman whilst I held an 
executive position.
During 2015 there were changes in Board membership which I’ve summarised in 
my opening Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5 and also note later in this 
Report. With changes in chairmanship of three of our Committees during 2015, 
and the establishment of a new Committee, called the Telecoms Regulatory 
Committee which focuses on this critical area of our business operations, the 
Board unanimously believes that discussion and debate has continued to be at a 
high standard and the three new Chairmen have adapted well in taking on their 
additional responsibilities.
We also include a statement made by the Directors, on page 93, that they 
consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable. The processes including financial controls and reporting, and 
risk management, which underpin and support our confidence in making this 
statement are long-established and embedded into our business. In addition 
our Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the Annual 
Report. In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure Committee 
also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures 
to fairly present the Company’s and the Group’s financial condition and results 
of operations. Our external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual 
Report to identify any material inconsistencies with the financial statements. 
Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufficient time to 
facilitate their review and input.
The scale of investment and transformation of the Company over the last few 
years has necessitated us to look at our culture and behaviours to ensure we 
take the best from all the businesses we’ve acquired over the years and 
implement these across our global workforce. Our values and behaviours are 
part of the framework which support how we work with partners and between 
employees. We act with integrity and we see this within our Board discussions, 
and how this cascades down through the business from the Executive 
Management Board. We are very proud of Inmarsat’s brand and are focused on 
protecting its integrity for the future.
As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and 
experience from all my Directors; the blend of experience, nationalities and 
range of cultural experience within the Board is valuable to us as we fulfil our 
duties to manage the business. Succession planning for the Non-Executive 
Directors remains a key focus for the Nominations Committee and the Board 
as we plan for the retirement of our original Directors who joined the Board in 
2005. To support this transition, Stephen Davidson will retire before the 2017 
AGM and we will continue to review future Non-Executive Director succession 
planning annually going forwards.
We hope the information in this Report will help you to understand how your 
Board runs the Company, manages risks, monitors internal controls, and how 
decisions have been made. 
ANDREW SUKAWATY
Chairman
3 March 2016
LEADERSHIP
THE BOARD
OVERALL SUMMARY STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. 
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code save as noted below.
During 2015, Andrew Sukawaty was Chairman. He did not meet the 
independence criteria on appointment as he had previously been an Executive 
Director. Although the Code recommends that the Chairman is independent on 
appointment, the Board unanimously believes that his wide experience means 
that he remains extremely well qualified to lead the Company as its Chairman 
and has the skills and experience to ensure that the Board continues to 
function effectively. The recently appointed Senior Independent Director, 
Dr Abe Peled, who took over the role from John Rennocks upon his retirement in 
November 2015, plays a key role within the Company on any matters which may 
be raised of a governance nature.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES   To ensure effective corporate governance, your Board has structured its 
governance framework as set out on the next page.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority and 
in 2015 created an additional Committee – the Telecoms Regulatory 
Committee. The permanent Committees of the Board are therefore the Audit, 
Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms Regulatory Committees. Each 
Committee has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the 
Board. A copy can be found on our website at www.inmarsat.com. Reports of 
the Committees can be found on pages 64 to 92.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 59
BOARD  COMMITTEES
CHAIRMAN
ANDREW SUKAWATY
Key objectives:
 > Leadership, operation and governance of the Board
 > Setting the agenda for the Board
AUDIT  COMMITTEE  CHAIRMAN:  ROBERT RUIJTER
4 INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and 
review of financial 
and operational 
risk management, 
audit and internal 
control issues 
Read more on page 68
REMUNERATION  COMMITTEE  CHAIRMAN:  SIMON BAX
5 INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and 
review of 
remuneration, 
bonus and share 
plan issues 
Read more on page 73
NOMINATIONS  COMMITTEE  CHAIRMAN:  DR ABRAHAM PELED
3 INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS AND A 
NON-INDEPENDENT 
MEMBER
Key objectives:
 > Oversight and 
review of Board 
and senior 
management 
appointments 
and succession 
planning 
Read more on page 64
TELECOMS  REGULATORY  COMMITTEE  CHAIRMAN:  ANDREW SUKAWATY
3 INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS AND A 
NON-INDEPENDENT 
CHAIRMAN
Key objectives:
 > Oversight of key 
regulatory 
challenges 
Read more on page 67
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD   CHAIRMAN:  RUPERT PEARCE
13 MEMBERS MADE UP OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, BUSINESS UNIT 
PRESIDENTS, GROUP FUNCTION HEADS
Key objectives:
 > To focus on strategy, financial performance, succession planning, business growth, 
organisational development and support of Group-wide policies 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE   RUPERT PEARCE
Key objectives:
 > Management of 
the business
 > Implementation of 
strategy and policy
INMARSAT PLC BOARD
12 DIRECTORS: TWO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, THE CHAIRMAN AND NINE 
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Key objectives:
 > Responsible for the overall conduct of the business; setting strategy 60  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
ROLE OF THE BOARD
Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat Group’s (the 
Group) business. It is the primary decision-making body for all material matters 
affecting the Group. It provides leadership and guidance, and sets our strategic 
direction. 
Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for:
 > the performance and proper conduct of the business; 
 > being responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having regard 
for the interests of all stakeholders; and 
 > being responsible for ensuring the effectiveness and reporting on our 
system of corporate governance. 
Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Group’s operations and for 
day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive 
Officer who, as part of the Executive Management Board, cascades this 
responsibility through the Group. The CEO is empowered by the Board to 
handle all business activities up to a designated level of authorisation and to 
report to the Board for guidance, support and approval on other matters which 
require Board input. A list of the members of the Executive Board is provided on 
page 9.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision or consideration 
by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Directors. This schedule covers 
areas such as:
 > the Group’s business strategy and long-term plans; 
 > major capital projects; 
 > investments; and 
 > acquisitions and divestments.
 
The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed 
formally at Board meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all matters 
reserved to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed. There is 
an established procedure for the review of the agenda between the Chairman, 
Executive Directors and Company Secretary in advance of each Board 
meeting. At each Board meeting there is a detailed report on current trading 
from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and detailed papers are 
provided on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give 
approval. Where appropriate, specific responsibilities are delegated to Board 
Committees or to committees convened for special purposes. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
BOARD MEETING CALENDAR AND REGULAR AGENDA   ITEMS DISCUSSED:
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Review and approval of preliminary results
Review and approval of full year dividend
Risk review
CEO commentary against business priorities
CFO financial review
Business Unit and Central Services presentations 
covering financial results and operational activity
Regular competition and strategy overview
Health and Safety update
Annual review of Bribery Act compliance
Board evaluation output and recommendations
Review and approval of first quarter results
Cyber security presentations
Two-day strategy discussion 
Review of forward agenda items
Review and approval of half year results
Interim dividend approval
Deep dive risk review
Review and approval of long range business plan
Two-day Board meeting held in Washington DC
Regulatory strategy update
Review and approval of Q3 results
Annual review of conflicts of interest register
Preparation for Board evaluation
Annual treasury policy approval
Approve following year’s budget
Annual detailed report on the performance of 
the satellite constellations FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 61
INDEPENDENT  NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTORS
The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors 
ensures that they can provide a strong independent element on the Board, 
debate, and constructively challenge management both in relation to the 
development of strategy and review of the Group’s operational and 
financial performance. 
To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are reviewed 
by the Nominations Committee annually against any circumstances relevant 
to their current or ongoing independence as set out in the Code and 
recommendations are made to the Board. Following such review, the Board 
considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and free of any 
circumstances that could materially interfere with their ability to provide a 
strong and valuable contribution to the Board’s deliberations, or which could 
interfere with the individual Director’s ability to also act in the best interests 
of the Group. The Nominations Committee additionally considers the 
independence carefully once a Non-Executive Director has served for nine 
years or more to assess whether their contribution to the Board remains 
valuable and valid to support the Company’s strategic objectives.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Management Board which meets on 
a weekly basis. As part of its remit, this team focuses on the Group’s strategy, 
financial reviews and long range business planning, the competitive landscape, 
operational updates from all areas of the business, risk review, learning and 
development and organisational development. 2016 will see a focus on a 
change management programme covering enhancements in processes and 
systems, and a review of operational structure to better support our staff and 
our partners. The Executive Management Board includes the Executive 
Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and the key functional heads. The 
names of the Executive Management team are shown on page 9.
GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT OF BOARD MEETINGS
Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business. 
During 2015, the Board met eight times, with one of those meetings being held 
over two days in Washington DC. During 2015 there was an additional overseas 
Board meeting held at our Palm Bay office in Florida and in 2016 we will have 
our two-day strategy event at our office in Ålesund, Norway. These meetings 
in local offices provide the Board with exposure to our staff and business 
operations outside the London headquarters. Key management are invited 
to attend all Board meetings to present on specific business issues which will 
include an operations update for each of the Business Units and central 
services divisions, covering commercial, technology and operational matters. 
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and when necessary.
In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, 
any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be 
considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the 
Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Committee thereon. 
The use of the electronic portal for the Directors to access Board and 
Committee papers has proved very effective. At each meeting, the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Board and 
several senior executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and focus 
on specific parts the Group’s operations. This way the Board is given exposure 
to the next layer of management at the Executive Board level and often from 
their direct reports. This is helpful to the Board as it supplements the 
discussions it has regarding planning for management succession. All 
Committee Chairmen report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees 
at the next Board meeting. Meeting proceedings and any unresolved concerns 
expressed by any Director are minuted by the Company Secretary.
KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
THE  CHAIRMAN
Andrew Sukawaty
The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the 
Board. He is responsible for:
 > effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board;
 > ensuring the effectiveness of the Board;
 > setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions; and
 > ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information.
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Rupert  Pearce
The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by 
the Board. He is responsible for:
 > the day-to-day managing of Inmarsat’s operations and its 
financial results;
 > recommending the strategic objectives for the Inmarsat Group, 
for debate, challenge and approval by the Board; 
 > responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key 
programmes with a priority to target revenue growth and 
deliver enhanced returns to shareholders; and
 > chairing the Executive Management Board.
Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social 
governance, community investment, and other corporate social 
responsibility matters.
THE  SENIOR  INDEPENDENT  DIRECTOR
Dr Abe Peled
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
 > acting as a sounding board for the Chairman;
 > serving as an intermediary for the other Directors;
 > reviewing the Chairman’s performance with the Non-
Executive Directors;
 > being available to discuss issues or concerns from our 
shareholders where they have been unable to resolve them 
through existing channels for investor communications; and
 > convening regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY
Alison Horrocks
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its 
Committees and in doing so she:
 > assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and 
timely access to all relevant information;
 > assists the Chairman by organising induction and 
training programmes;
 > assists the Chairman with the annual Board 
evaluation procedure;
 > is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures 
are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance 
matters; and
 > administers the procedure under which Directors can, where 
appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense (no requests for external professional 
advice were received during the year). 62  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NUMBER OF SCHEDULED BOARD MEETINGS HELD AND MEETING   ATTENDANCE IN 2015
Meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Sukawaty (Chairman) 8/8 100%
Rupert Pearce 8/8 100%
Tony Bates 8/8 100%
Simon Bax 8/8 100%
Sir Bryan Carsberg 8/8 100%
Stephen Davidson 8/8 100%
Kathleen Flaherty 8/8 100%
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) 8/8 100%
Dr Abraham Peled 8/8 100%
Janice Obuchowski 8/8 100%
Robert Ruijter
(1)
7/7 100%
Dr Hamadoun Touré
(2)
7/7 100%
John Rennocks
(3)
7/7 100%
(1) Appointed on 1 February 2015.
(2) Appointed on 1 March 2015.
(3) Retired on 6 November 2015.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS   An overview of the Group’s framework for identifying and managing risk, both at 
an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 48 and 51 in the Strategic 
Report. The Board has responsibility for managing risk and although the Audit 
Committee has responsibility for the risk management process it does not 
delegate overall responsibility for risk to either the Audit Committee or 
management. As noted in the detailed risk report in the Strategic Report, the 
Board has asked for a review of the risk process system to focus on key 
significant risks and updates on mitigating activities.
The Board have annual updates on the Company’s policies for compliance 
with the UK Bribery Act, and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 
requirements and health and safety. As part of our commitment to preventing 
bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever 
and in whatever form it may be encountered, we have a formal Board-approved 
anti-corruption policy and a summary of the anti-bribery policy is included on 
our website. We have appropriate procedures in place, in line with guidance 
provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with current 
legislation. An independently managed, confidential whistleblowing helpline 
(email and telephone) is available to employees to use and there was only one 
enquiry phone call made to it during 2015. 
The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, systems 
and network security (cyber security). We are increasingly required to be 
compliant with, or align to, various legal, contractual and regulatory standards 
and codes of practice relative to information security governance and the 
preservation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of customer or 
internal data and services. This is part of a broader programme supported by a 
dedicated cyber security team whose primary role is to safeguard the Company 
to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, maintain business continuity and 
limit damage to business interests by preventing and reducing the occurrence 
of security incidents and their impact upon business operations. 
In addition, the Company has been steadily increasing its investments on cyber, 
not only in terms of leadership resources and additional skills but also in terms 
of considering opportunities to influence upcoming cyber standards in its core 
markets and exploring options to offer cyber-as-a-service to some of its key 
customer communities. 
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the 
Chairman and other Executive Directors in attendance, to assess the Chairman’s 
performance, discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive 
Directors and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate. 
As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also holds a two-day 
strategy meeting each year at which it considers the future direction of the 
business. Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who 
present on specific agenda items. Elements of the business strategy are 
reviewed regularly at Board meetings. 
INDEMNIFICATION  OF  DIRECTORS
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover has been established for all Directors 
and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the 
Company. In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent 
permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors, the Company Secretary 
and certain employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Group’s 
request have been granted indemnities from the Company in respect of 
liabilities incurred as a result of their office. Neither our indemnity nor the 
insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted 
dishonestly or fraudulently. No amount has been paid under any of these 
indemnities during the year.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of interest and 
is aware of any potential conflict through an annual review of the other 
commitments of its Directors. We are satisfied these commitments do not 
conflict with their duties as Directors of Inmarsat. During the year, where there 
were agenda items being raised for discussion which could have the perception 
of a conflict of interest for the individual Director, these were discussed at the 
relevant Board meeting and agreed in each case there were no conflicts of 
interest identified. The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions to 
allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director 
is not in breach of his/her duty under company law. As noted above, and 
happened in practice, should a Director become aware that they have an 
interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction with the 
Company, they are required to notify this to the Company Secretary. Directors 
have a continuing duty to notify any changes to their conflicts of interest to the 
Company Secretary and any changes are noted in the conflicts register.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE
The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2015 is shown in 
the next table. Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Touré joined the Board on 
1 February and 1 March 2015 respectively. Attendance at Committee meetings 
is shown in the relevant Committee reports. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 63
 > Financial  reporting:  monthly management accounts provide relevant, 
reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to 
management and the Board. Analysis is undertaken of differences between 
actual results and the annual budget on a monthly basis. Annual plans, 
forecasts, performance targets and long range financial plans allow 
management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the 
progress towards achieving the financial objectives. The annual budget is 
approved by the Board. The Group reports half-yearly based on a 
standardised reporting process, and in addition, also reports on a 
quarterly basis.
 > Information  systems: information systems are developed to support the 
Group’s long-term objectives and are managed by professionally staffed 
teams. Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all 
significant areas of the business.
 > Contractual  commitments: there are clearly defined policies and 
procedures for entering into contractual commitments. These include 
detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals 
and/or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk 
management aspects of the obligations being entered into. New business 
plan approval processes and a new procurement process have been 
introduced which will further strengthen the review of contractual 
commitments before any such commitment is agreed to.
 > Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular reports from 
the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control 
environment of the Group is operating effectively. There are formal policies 
and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the 
accounting records and to safeguard the Group’s assets. Significant capital 
projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval. There are 
formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other 
matters – often referred to as ‘whistleblowing’ procedures. A new worldwide 
anonymous whistleblowing programme was introduced in 2014 and has 
continued in operation during the year with monthly reports issued by the 
external provider to the Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit. 
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation 
and appropriate follow-up action with the results being reported to the 
Audit Committee.
DIRECTORS’  REMUNERATION
Details of the Company’s remuneration policy and Directors’ remuneration are 
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 73 to 92.
INTERNAL  CONTROLS
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining the 
Group’s system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from 
management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the 
business. The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports 
received from management, along with those from both internal and external 
auditors. Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk 
management can be further embedded into the operations of the business and 
to deal with areas of improvement which come to management’s and the 
Board’s attention.
The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with responsibility for 
reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of 
financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable 
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to provide 
their certifications in relation to publicly disclosed information. The Disclosure 
Committee comprises the Chairman, both Executive Directors, Company 
Secretary and other senior executives. 
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended 
31 December 2015 and for the period up to the date of approval of the 
consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report. The review 
covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems. The Board confirms that the actions it 
considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant 
failings or weaknesses identified from its review of the system of internal 
control. This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing 
plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances. 
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in 
the part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
The key elements of the Group’s system of internal controls, which have been in 
place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this Report, include:
 > Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in place which 
sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and how this is measured 
across identified macro and business risks. As required by the policy, 
management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate and 
report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board on how 
those risks are being managed. Risks are highlighted through a number of 
different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by Risk 
Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, the probability of 
the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to 
manage the risk to the desired level. All the risk registers are reviewed by 
senior management and provided quarterly to the Board and to the Audit 
Committee. Details of the risk process and key risks are shown on pages 48 
to 51 in the Strategic Report.
 > Management structure: there is a clearly defined organisational structure 
throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of 
authority based on job responsibilities and experience. Within the business, 
senior management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of 
relevant business issues. A process of self-certification is used where Directors 
and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to 
mitigate risk in key process areas. They also confirm annually, in writing, that 
risk management processes are in place and are operating effectively. 64  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent, Non-
Executive Directors. The Nominations Committee meets as and when 
necessary, generally at least once a year. The Chairmanship moved from 
Andrew Sukawaty to Dr Abe Peled in November 2015 as it was determined 
it would be more appropriate for an independent Director to chair this 
Committee. Dr Abe Peled had previously been a member of the Committee. 
Andrew Sukawaty remains a member of the Committee and the others are 
Stephen Davidson and Dr Hamadoun Touré. John Rennocks participated in 
meetings up until his retirement in November 2015. During 2015 the Committee 
met twice. 
The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment 
as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity (including 
gender) consideration, and ensuring a broad representation of skills across the 
Board. In doing this, the Committee will give full consideration to succession 
planning and the leadership needs of the Company. The Committee also makes 
recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board’s Committees 
and will review and make recommendations in relation to the structure, size 
and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience, and the independence of the Non-Executive 
Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board 
concerning the annual reappointment by shareholders of any Non-Executive 
Director as he or she reaches their sixth year of reappointment and separately 
with a view to assessing their continuing independence thereafter, particularly 
when Directors are seeking to be reappointed after serving nine years. The 
Committee also has responsibility for approving any changes to Executive 
Directors including senior management appointments. All currently appointed 
Directors will retire at the 2016 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, 
or offer themselves for appointment as appropriate. As noted earlier in the 
Corporate governance report, the Committee has agreed that it was 
appropriate that although some Directors had exceeded their original term of 
office, they remain independent in their contribution, and should be invited to 
serve for a longer period and therefore the three longest-serving Directors are 
considered independent. 
COMPOSITION
Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range of professional 
backgrounds. All our Directors bring strong judgement to the Board’s 
deliberations. The Non-Executive Directors we appointed in 2014 and 2015 
have all contributed very effectively to Board discussions and have 
demonstrated their increasing knowledge of how the Company operates and its 
business. We took the decision to appoint these additional Directors while 
retaining the expertise of existing Directors thus enabling us to have an orderly 
retirement process of longer serving Board Directors over the coming years. In 
2014 we appointed Retired General C. Robert Kehler and in 2015 we appointed 
Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Touré; John Rennocks retired in November 
2015. At the beginning of 2015, Andrew Sukawaty also became Non-Executive 
Chairman. Tony Bates joined us as our Chief Financial Officer in June 2014 and 
he has received strong endorsement from the full Board for his performance. 
As at 3 March 2016, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors, 
nine Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman. With the 
exception of Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Touré, all Directors served 
throughout the year. The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant 
skills and experience are set out in their biographical details and can be found 
on pages 52 to 54. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
EFFECTIVENESS
REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
DR ABRAHAM PELED
CHAIRMAN,  NOMINATIONS  COMMITTEE
 
“I am delighted to become Chairman of this 
Committee. W e continue to contribute our time 
and experience to enable good decision making 
by the Committee to support the business. ”
2015 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
We supported the appointment of two additional talented 
Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board in 2015
We reviewed the independence of our longer-serving Directors and 
determined they continue to demonstrate the right qualities of 
independence and judgement
We reviewed the senior management succession plan, and considered 
the talent available below the Executive Management Board level
MEMBERS IN 2015 Scheduled meetings attended
Dr Abraham Peled (Chairman)   
Stephen Davidson   
Andrew Sukawaty   
Dr Hamadoun Touré   
John Rennocks   
AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2015
An area of focus for the Committee has been Non-Executive Director 
succession planning. We purposefully increased the size of the Board 
starting in 2014 to allow time for new Directors to come up to speed on our 
business activities and ambitions before longer-serving Directors retired. 
We have found this has worked very well and the new Directors have brought 
an additional skill-set and breadth of experience to Board discussions.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 65
The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers diversity in its 
broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to the 
Board. It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing the 
Company; diversity, including gender; and what skills and expertise are needed 
on the Board and from senior management in the future. Gender is one 
element of the considerations made in appointing senior management and 
Board members and as part of general recruitment practices across the Group. 
The Committee has not set quotas for the percentage of women in the 
workforce but is supportive of the need generally to encourage diversity when 
employees and Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) are recruited. The 
Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its 
work and receives updated management succession plans which look at 
succession planning for the Executive Management Board and identifies the 
next layer of management below them who are identified as those with 
potential for promotion to senior management positions. This document is 
updated at least annually to reflect changes in senior management. 
INDUCTION AND ONGOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
To ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on joining the 
Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction 
programme organised through the Company Secretary, including the provision 
of background material on the Company and briefings with each of the 
Executive Management Board. These meetings will ensure that the on-
boarding process for a new Director provides a view of each area of the 
business with the opportunity for further discussion as appropriate. Each 
Director’s individual experience and background is taken into account in 
developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements. The induction 
programme was reviewed and updated in 2015 for Mr Ruijter and Dr Touré when 
they joined the Company. 
For professional ongoing development, the Board receives presentations 
relevant to the Company’s business and updates on any changes in legislation 
which may affect the Company’s operations. The Company Secretary supplies 
all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice. As part of 
their annual performance evaluation, Directors are given the opportunity to 
discuss training and development needs. During 2015, the Directors received 
external refresher training from the Company’s corporate lawyers on the 
responsibilities of Directors in a listed company. Whilst the Chairman takes 
ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Directors’ training and development 
needs, each Director is expected to ask about any specific training needs. They 
also take steps to ensure they are adequately informed about the Company 
and their responsibilities as a Director and attend external briefings and receive 
information updates. The Board is confident that its members have the 
knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a 
Director of a listed company. 
BOARD EVALUATION   In 2012 the Company undertook an external evaluation, facilitated by Duncan 
Reed of Condign Board Consulting. The Chairman asked Mr Reed to undertake 
the second external review for 2015 in order to bring some consistency of 
knowledge of the Directors’ responses from the previous external evaluation, 
and therefore to be able to make comparisons and assess progress. Neither 
Mr Reed nor Condign Board Consulting have any other commercial 
relationships with Inmarsat. 
One of the key areas of discussion concerned what may need to change for the 
Board – in its role, the way it spends its time and organises itself – to maximise the 
chances of implementing the evolving strategy and delivering performance.
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed 
and evaluated so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity (of 
which gender is one component), experience and the ability of Directors to 
provide sufficient time to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
At the 2016 AGM, several of our Directors will have served for nine years, or 
longer. Stephen Davidson will retire ahead of the 2017 AGM so that we continue 
the transition of Directors on the Board which started in 2014. We will ensure an 
orderly succession of our longer serving Directors which will be reviewed 
annually by the Nominations Committee. For the 2016 AGM, the Nominations 
Committee has considered the matter carefully and believes that the longer 
service Directors continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence and 
judgement in carrying out their roles. This independence is observed at Board 
meetings in the way the Directors constructively challenge management and 
approach meetings fully briefed and are fully engaged in the discussion. The 
Nominations Committee discusses their independence and considers that the 
longer serving Directors remain fully independent. Their length of service, 
resulting experience and knowledge of the Company is of great benefit to the 
Board. The subject of their independence will be kept under review. We expect 
that our newer Non-Executive Directors will have been able to benefit from the 
experience of our longer serving Directors through the phased retirement plans 
we will be putting in place. This confirmation of independence has been 
supported by the Board as part of the recommendation for all Directors to 
stand for re-election. The three longest-serving Directors – Stephen Davidson 
and Sir Bryan Carsberg and Kathleen Flaherty – will therefore all stand for 
re-election at the 2016 AGM. 
SUCCESSION  PLANNING
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and 
with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board. This process is led by 
the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board. 
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Board’s practice is to use a 
combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals. 
The Non-Executive Directors who were appointed in 2015 were personal 
recommendations from a Director or a recommendation made to a Director. 
In considering the skills required for new Non-Executive Directors, there was 
specific focus on seeking an individual who was a qualified financial expert. 
Robert Ruijter had immense financial experience, plus his operational 
experience was an excellent fit for coming onto the Board and becoming a 
member, and subsequently Chairman, of the Audit Committee. Dr Hamadoun 
Touré has deep experience within international organisations handling 
regulatory issues and championing the cause of bringing broadband 
communications to rural areas, particularly in Africa. Additionally he has 
industry experience having previously worked as a satellite engineer. 
Dr Hamadoun Touré is a member of the Nominations Committee and in 2015 
we created a separate Committee which focuses on regulatory activities where 
we will be able to draw on his considerable recent experience to assist our 
awareness of regulatory affairs. We had identified the desire to extend the mix 
of Directors from a cultural point of view and Rob Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun 
Touré provide the Board with diversity of nationality as well as skills and 
previous experience. As part of the recruitment process, the individuals 
generally met the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees and the Company Secretary. Other members 
of the Board were also given the opportunity to meet them. 66  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 > Greater visibility as to customer satisfaction and how it is measured: This 
remains an ongoing exercise for management to undertake and provide an 
update to the Board.
 > Plan for a retirement cycle for longer serving Non-Executive Directors: This 
has been a discussion item by the Nominations Committee and also was part 
of the discussion from the 2015 external evaluation.
Some of the recommendations from the 2015 external evaluation are:
 > Improving the use of the Board’s time which may involve splitting more 
meetings over two days.
 > Ensuring that presentations to the Board include a comprehensive 
executive summary.
 > Request for the risk register to be focused on key risks faced by the Company 
and accountability for mitigating actions.
 > Ensuring that the Board receives early updates on proposals from 
management on significant transactional issues to receive early support.
 > A review at each meeting of upcoming items for the subsequent meetings.
EXTERNAL  DIRECTORSHIPS  The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive Directors accepting 
Non-Executive Directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills 
and knowledge for the benefit of the Company. All such appointments require 
the prior approval of the Board and the number of appointments is limited to 
two. Details of these directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 
52 to 54 and details of the fees paid to them can be found on page 83 of the 
Remuneration report. 
APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. 
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer 
themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. 
The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing commitment to Board 
activities and satisfactory performance. All Directors will stand for reappointment 
annually in accordance with the provision of the Code. The Nominations 
Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors 
offering themselves for reappointment at the 2016 AGM continues to benefit the 
Board and the Company should support their reappointment. Non-Executive 
Directors are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors 
may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period longer than six 
years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter. 
As already set out earlier in this Report on page 65, three of our Non-Executive 
Directors, Stephen Davidson, Kathleen Flaherty and Sir Bryan Carsberg are 
being supported by the Board for re-appointment as independent Non-
Executive Directors even though they will have served for longer than 
nine years. 
A summary of the findings from Mr Reed, also reflecting some of his views about 
what he found, is extracted from the Report and noted below:
 > A functional and effective Board of committed, experienced and perceptive 
individuals. Also an exceptionally diverse group, to an extent rare on all but 
the biggest company boards of the FTSE top 20.
 > Since the last external evaluation, the Board has been augmented with 
persons of clear relevance to Inmarsat’s present and future shape, and who 
are proving themselves equal to the requirements placed on them.
 > Striking and maintaining the right balance of challenge with support is one 
of the most important tasks for any chairman and also for his colleagues. 
This is a balance that is indeed being made here.
 > Placing decisions and discussions in their full environmental context is a 
good and established feature of this Board’s modus operandi. Equally, this 
discipline could and should be extended more consistently to one area that 
has been of greater contention, namely remuneration.
 > Encouragingly, the Board is also consulted at a strategic level well before 
decisions are made (by the Executive Management). Sometimes, and to its 
credit, the Board has even prompted the executive team to proceed with 
projects which otherwise the executive team were unsure about, or may even 
have chosen to leave alone.
 > In summary, this is a Board that takes seriously its role both to oversee the 
‘control’ functions of the business and also to provide a framework of 
entrepreneurial leadership – as the Corporate Governance Code enjoins. In 
this sense, the ‘tone from the top’ has been impeccable as a sense of shared 
purpose is evident even where roles and functions clearly differ.
The evaluation exercise also reviewed the work of the Committees and their 
own effectiveness. Potential areas for future review were noted as follows:
 > Audit  Committee: in relation to its risk function, to consider the output 
of some ‘realistic disaster scenarios’ reviewed by the Executive 
Management Board.
 > Nominations  Committee: to discuss a detailed Board rotation and 
succession plan with the Chairman, to crystallise it, and to agree action 
points; and to consider reviewing the management succession plan more 
than once a year if there are senior management organisational changes.
 > Remuneration  Committee:  to consider providing a ‘Masterclass’ on pay 
construct and the people proposition for Committee members, and to 
ensure that the full internal and external environmental context is given 
due consideration, including payout history, and the use of a sectoral 
comparator group.
During the year, the Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive 
Directors and discussed the performance of the Chairman; and each of the 
Directors commented as part of the evaluation exercise on the Chairman’s 
performance. The Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors on an 
individual basis at least once a year. 
Key elements arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review which were noted 
in last year’s Annual Report are shown below with an update as to what 
happened during the year:
 > Additional focus on succession planning for Executive Directors and senior 
management: During 2015 there was additional focus on this topic with the 
CEO articulating the succession planning strategy and process.
 > Broaden the strategy discussion content for the two-day Board meeting and 
include additional targeted strategic discussion at Board meetings as 
appropriate: The 2015 strategy session was broader in context, with key 
management members invited who could provide added insight to the 
discussions. It was also agreed to include strategy updates as a regular 
agenda for Board meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 67
ACCOUNTABILITY 
REPORT OF THE TELECOMS REGULATORY   COMMITTEE  The Telecoms Regulatory Committee was created in May 2015, specifically to 
ensure there was focus from the Board on this key area which affected all parts 
of the Company’s business operations – both now and in the future. The 
Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors and 
meets as and when necessary, generally twice a year. Andrew Sukawaty is 
Chairman. During 2015 the Committee met twice. 
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee is authorised by the Board to:
 > review key regulatory challenges facing the business of the Company and 
the strategy and action plans proposed to meet such challenges;
 > discuss the Company’s strategy for acquisition of spectrum and 
frequency rights; 
 > facilitate high level engagement with governments, regulatory bodies and 
international organisations as identified by the Company;
 > review upcoming key regulatory meetings, the proposed agendas and 
events and the Company’s plans to cover such events;
 > support the Company in various countries to secure authorisations for 
market access as identified by the Company;
 > obtain the advice and assistance of any of the Company’s executives having 
particular expertise in such matters; and
 > to review, and advise on, the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the 
Company’s regulatory policy and strategy as presented by the Company’s 
executives and provide guidance on proactive measures proposed by the 
Company to maintain its leading position and competitiveness in 
the industry.
A key focus for the Company during 2015 was the preparation and participation 
at the 2015 World Radio Conference, which spans a month, with discussions 
covering issues which related to Inmarsat specifically as well as the broader 
satellite industry. The inputs of the Committee members to provide guidance 
and sharing views with the management team who were representing the 
Company at these discussions was extremely valuable and contributed to the 
Company achieving its objectives.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
CHAIRMAN, TELECOMS REGULATORY COMMITTEE
 
“We believe that the creation of this 
Committee will provide focus from members 
of our Board with significant regulatory 
experience. This is a key area which affects all 
parts of the Company’s business operations – 
both now and in the future. ”
2015 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
We created the terms of reference to establish this new Board 
Committee in May 2015
We provided inputs to assist the Company prepare for a significant 
regulatory conference in 2015
We provided overview guidance on developing regulatory activities
MEMBERS IN 2015 Scheduled meetings attended
Andrew Sukawaty (Chairman)   
Sir Bryan Carsberg   
Janice Obuchowski   
Dr Hamadoun Touré   
AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2015
A key focus for the Committee during 2015 was to contribute oversight 
and guidance for the Company’s preparation and participation in the 
2015 World Radio Conference. This expertise was used to help 
management in discussions covering issues which related to Inmarsat 
specifically as well as the broader satellite industry.  68  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
All members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors 
and the majority have significant, recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Audit Committee 
members enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee. 
The table below shows who makes up the Audit Committee and their 
attendance at meetings during 2015. Robert Ruijter joined the Committee on 
1 February 2015 and became Chairman in November 2015, assuming the role 
from John Rennocks when he retired. All members, apart from Mrs Obuchowski, 
are considered financial experts.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Head of 
Internal Audit. The Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) audit engagement partner is present 
at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters 
relating to the audit. The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with 
the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for:
 > monitoring the financial reporting process; 
 > the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and 
risk management;
 > the integrity of the financial statements. This includes a review of significant 
issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures; 
 > keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost 
effectiveness; 
 > consideration of management’s response to any major external or internal 
audit recommendations; and 
 > being assured of the independence and objectivity of the internal and 
external auditor.
The Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy. The 
Committee’s terms of reference have been amended to reflect this, and have 
been generally updated to reflect best practice, and can be found on our 
website. Details about the Committee’s assessment are shown at the end of 
this Report.
There is a forward agenda used for the year’s activities which focus on:
 > review of the annual financial statements and the results of the annual 
external audit and review of the external auditor’s quarterly and interim 
review work and relevant quarterly and interim financial reporting and the 
external audit plan; 
 > review of risk management reports; 
 > review of the preparation of the viability statement for use in the 2015 
Preliminary Statement and Annual Report; and
 > review of internal audit plans and findings and recommendations.
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
ROBERT RUIJTER
CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE
 
“I’m delighted to have been appointed Chairman 
of the Committee, taking over the responsibility 
from John Rennocks. Our Committee has strong 
members who are focused to deliver the highest 
quality debate and discussion on the key 
matters brought forward to us for review. ”
2015 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
 We ensured a smooth transition of the Committee chairmanship
We discussed and planned for a retender of the audit firm
We recommended to put in place an enhanced risk management process
MEMBERS IN 2015 Scheduled meetings attended
Robert Ruijter (Chairman)   
Sir Bryan Carsberg   
Stephen Davidson   
Janice Obuchowski   
John Rennocks
(1)
   
(1) Mr Rennocks retired from the Board on 6 November 2015.
AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2015
The Committee requested and received changes to the risk management 
process to focus on principal risks and their mitigation. This data supported 
the viability exercise which was performed by management to test the long 
range business plan against a number of severe but plausible principal risk 
scenarios. The Committee felt that based on all contributions, the viability 
statement could be supported for Board approval.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 69
SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  MATTERS  During 2015, the Audit Committee considered the significant accounting 
matters described below. In addressing these issues the Committee considered 
the appropriateness of management’s accounting estimates and key 
judgements, outlined in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. The 
Committee discussed these with the external auditor during the year and, where 
appropriate, details of how they have been addressed are provided in the 
Independent Auditors’ report on pages 95 to 99. 
REVENUE  RECOGNITION
The timing of revenue recognition is a key area of judgement, especially in the 
telecommunications industry. The Group’s internal audit team have kept 
significant revenue systems, processes and recognition as a focus area during 
the year and the external auditor performed detailed audit procedures on 
revenue recognition, with the findings of both being reported to the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee have therefore concluded that the Group’s 
revenue recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
The Group’s accounting policies with regards to revenue recognition remain 
unchanged from the prior year, with the exception of the Group’s accounting 
for ‘take or pay’ revenue contracts. Inmarsat enters into ‘take or pay’ type 
contracts where the customer contracts to pay for a certain amount of airtime 
over a period. The customer does not always utilise all of the airtime that they 
have the contractual right to use over the contract period. Such unexercised 
rights are often referred to as ‘breakage’. 
Historically Inmarsat has recognised revenue in line with customer usage and 
only recognised breakage in the final period of a customer contract. From the 
beginning of 2015, the Group recognised breakage as revenue in proportion to 
the pattern of rights exercised by the customer rather than being recognised as 
a lump sum at the end of the contractual period. The end of the contractual 
period coincides with the year end, so the change in accounting policy only 
impacts the timing of quarterly revenue recognition and has no impact on the 
full year results. This accounting treatment has been discussed and agreed with 
the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has therefore concluded that the Group’s revenue 
recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION   AGREEMENT
The Audit Committee continues to review the accounting treatment for the 
recognition of revenue and costs in respect of each phase of the LightSquared 
Cooperation Agreement. In December 2015 LightSquared emerged from 
bankruptcy protection and raised substantial new capital. Consequently, it is 
more likely that LightSquared will honour its financial obligations to Inmarsat 
and so, in the fourth quarter, Inmarsat returned to an accruals basis for 
recognition of revenue in relation to Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement. 
Deferred income in respect of Phase 1 from LightSquared continues to be 
carried on the balance sheet. Although the cash has been received, the timing 
of the recognition of this deferred income, together with any related future 
costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number of factors that continue to be 
uncertain. Both the percentage of completion and straight-line method have 
been used to recognise revenue and costs relating to Phase 1 of the 
Cooperation Agreement in the past. The Group continues to monitor the 
situation and will determine the appropriate revenue recognition treatment 
over the course of 2016. 
The Audit Committee has deemed the current accounting treatment of all 
phases of the Cooperation Agreement appropriate. 
The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process and audit quality 
are effective. It does this by:
 > relying on the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman 
and the lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through 
face-to-face meetings; 
 > relying on the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit 
engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team; 
 > relying on the quality of the management responses to audit queries; 
 > relying on meetings held by the CEO and the Chairman with the lead audit 
engagement partner which are reported to the Audit Chairman and 
Committee; 
 > relying on a review of independence and objectivity of the audit firm and also 
the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to shareholders; and 
 > seeking feedback from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary, 
and the Head of Internal Audit. The Committee is considering the use of a 
formal auditor assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness.
During the reporting year to 31 December 2015, the activities of the Audit 
Committee were:
 > ensure a smooth transition of Audit Committee chairmanship;
 > discussion and planning for the change in Audit Partner following his 
completing his five-year term of office;
 > discussion and planning for a retender of the audit firm in accordance with 
rotation requirements for external auditors as Deloitte has been Auditor to 
the Company for 10 years;
 > confirming to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable;
 > review and endorsement, prior to submission to the Board, half-year and 
full-year financial statements, interim management statements and results 
announcements; 
 > review and approval of internal audit reports, and findings and 
recommendations arising from the reports;
 > review and approval of risk management updates and the annual risk 
management process;
 > agreement of external and internal annual audit plans; 
 > receiving updates on management responses to audit recommendations; and 
 > reviewing key accounting judgements relating to specific transactions as well 
as changes to any accounting policies affecting the Group’s financial position. 
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group 
operations. Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group companies and business 
operations. One of our subsidiary companies, Inmarsat Group Ltd, is required to 
produce quarterly financial statements, as required by its loan agreements, 
which are reviewed and approved by the Committee. The quarterly review of the 
risk reports and the process adopted to manage risk is a key area of focus for 
the Committee.
Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to 
maximise effectiveness and time planning efficiency of those attending. The 
Committee’s Chairman reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, 
on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the 
Board in the conduct of their work. All members of the Board have access to 
Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to the 
Chairman, attend the meetings.
The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee (the role of 
which is detailed on page 63), reported on matters that affected the quality 
and timely disclosure of financial and other material information to the Board. 
This enabled the Audit Committee to review and clarify the completeness of 
financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board. 70  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
INTERNAL AUDIT
Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of 
the internal Audit Department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting. 
The internal Auditor presents reports at each meeting covering updates on 
internal audit activities, results of audits and follow up actions required and 
their annual audit plan. These may cover areas such as revenue assurance, 
accounting operations review following the implementation of a Group-wide 
financial accounting system, review of annual bonus calculations and IT 
security and systems reviews.
During 2015, there has been more linkage between the internal Auditor’s 
reports and the key risks identified by the Company. The Committee can see 
clearly from the risk reports which risks have been reviewed by the internal 
Auditor as part of their annual review. The Chairman of the Committee meets 
with the internal Auditor as required but generally at least once a year.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The Financial Reporting Council issued a guide for Audit Committees to help 
them evaluate auditor effectiveness. There are several criteria included within 
the report and while the Committee did not undertake a formal review, it 
received inputs from different sources such as the Auditors themselves, as well 
as management and the input from the members of the Committee itself which 
assisted it to determine that the Auditor and its work were effective. At each of 
the Audit Committee meetings, the Auditor would report on any issues it 
perceived regarding quality control and where it thought judgements had been 
applied by management and if it agreed with these, or offered an alternative 
view if appropriate. The findings and reports from the Auditor help the Audit 
Committee make any assessments about the need to update processes or 
undertake further review work on any particular issues.
In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority requirements 
regarding the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, we are undertaking a competitive 
tender process of our external Auditor. A competitive tender process is a 
process where the Company invites and evaluates bids for the provision of 
statutory audit services from two or more auditors. Given that our current 
Auditor was appointed in 2006, we are required to undertake a competitive 
tender for the 2016 financial year audit. Given their length of tenure, it is 
possible for Deloitte, the existing Auditor, to be reappointed as a result of the 
tender. We would expect the appointment of the external Auditor to be made 
shortly after the Annual General Meeting in May 2016 (which will see Deloitte 
being re-appointed subject to the ongoing tender process). If Deloitte is 
unsuccessful, a new Auditor will be appointed after the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting and shareholders will be invited to confirm that appointment at the 
2017 Annual General Meeting. With the additional EU directive now completed, 
if we appoint the existing Auditor as part of the retender process, they could 
remain in place for an additional 10 years after the retender.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of 
mechanisms. To ensure the Auditor’s independence, the Committee annually 
reviews the Company’s relationship with Deloitte and receives summaries at 
each Audit Committee meeting from the Auditor as to their independence. The 
Committee concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional 
relationship with Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and processes in 
place to ensure the required level of independence. The external Auditor is 
required to change the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five 
years. The current audit partner was appointed in 2011 and the final audit he will 
be responsible for is the 2015 financial year. A new audit partner has been 
identified and will take over as the lead for the 2016 reporting period if Deloitte 
is successful in the retender process. A resolution to appoint Auditors at the 
2016 AGM will be put forward to shareholders. During the year, Deloitte charged 
the Group US$1.8m (2014: US$2.6m) for audit and audit-related services.
TAXATION
The calculation of some of the Group’s potential tax assets and liabilities 
involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items, 
whose tax treatment cannot be finalised until resolution has been reached with 
the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. 
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve. 
The Committee addresses these matters through a range of reporting from 
senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of 
management’s views including the degree to which these are supported by 
professional advice from external legal and other advisory firms. This is also an 
area of higher audit risk and, accordingly, the Committee received detailed 
verbal and written reporting from the external auditor on these matters. 
Following these procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the income tax 
assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Group’s contingent 
liability disclosure in respect of income taxes, to be appropriate.
CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED   BORROWING  COSTS
Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other 
associated costs, including ground infrastructure. In addition, borrowing costs 
attributable to qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost of those 
assets. Given the nature of the Group’s business, significant capital expenditure 
is incurred on space segment assets. The key judgements involved in the 
capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are:
 > whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRS have been met;
 > allocation of an appropriate asset class and associated useful economic life 
in accordance with Group policies;
 > whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result 
capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease; and
 > whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of 
costs should cease and depreciation should commence.
The external auditor examined the capitalisation of development costs in the 
year, particularly in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band satellite 
programmes and reported its findings to the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee is satisfied that space segment assets and associated borrowing 
costs have been capitalised correctly in the year.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS IMPAIRMENT REVIEW
The Group has significant goodwill and other intangible asset balances. 
As explained in our accounting policies in note 2 to the consolidated financial 
statements, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed annually 
for impairment. Goodwill is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by 
the Group.
The Committee received a detailed report regarding the assumptions used in 
each impairment review. The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate 
to the future performance expectations of the business. The Committee has 
confirmed: consistency of the methodology applied, use of the Board-
approved long-range business plan (updated for any relevant changes), 
appropriateness of terminal growth rates, and discount rates. 
The Committee agrees with the impairment review carried out by management 
and are satisfied that there is no impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or 
other intangible assets. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 71
IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
 > Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in the 
front and the financial reporting in the back of the report, and does the 
messaging reflected in each remain consistent when read independently of 
each other?
 > Is the Annual Report properly a document for shareholders?
 > Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with appropriate 
prominence?
 > Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the 
significant issues reported in this Audit Committee Report consistent with the 
disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in 
the financial statements?
 > How do these compare with the risks that Deloitte plan to include in their 
audit report?
IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
 > Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report?
 > Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the 
document?
 > Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects the 
whole story?
CONCLUSION
Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2015 Annual 
Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced 
and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position, performance, business model 
and strategy.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES
The Company’s Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as 
a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, 
perform the work in question. A formal policy is in place in relation to the 
provision of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate 
protection of their independence and objectivity. Inmarsat’s policy is to adopt 
a strict 70% cap for allowable non-audit services. To ensure the policy is 
adequately controlled, we adopt several processes, which were enforced during 
2015. Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services require the 
prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee is less than 
£50,000. Any commitments above this amount will require the Audit 
Committee Chairman’s approval. A summary is supplied to the Audit 
Committee at each meeting where amounts have been committed below 
£50,000. Separate engagement letters are signed by our CFO for each audit 
and non-audit engagement with Deloitte. 
Using 2014, 2013 and 2012 for calculating the average audit fees paid to 
Deloitte, the cap on non-audit services as it relates to 2015 will be $1m, and this 
amount in 2015 was $600k compared to $1m in 2014. A breakdown of the fees 
paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
It is the Company’s practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which 
may include Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects is awarded. Contracts 
are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits. The Committee and 
the Company’s management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte for 
non-audit services compared to audit services was significantly higher several 
years ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain 
transactions and has worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have 
reduced over the last few years. The Committee does not believe that asking 
Deloitte to undertake non-audit work is an issue for the Company as it is 
satisfied with the quality of work and advice provided and, importantly, it 
believes the independence of the auditor is not at risk. Additionally, where 
non-audit work is undertaken, management will have negotiated competitive 
rates for each piece of work.
We receive advice from other firms for specific projects and other long-term 
projects. We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various projects – 
some are new projects and some have been continuing for several years. We 
also use different firms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues. 
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
We have included more focus this year on linking the various sections of the 
Annual Report to make it easier for shareholders to navigate to find the 
information they need, while not diluting the level of transparency in our 
disclosures. When forming its opinion as to whether the Annual Report and 
Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee reflected on the 
information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
In particular, the Committee considered:
IS THE REPORT FAIR?
 > Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted 
that should have been included?
 > Is the reporting on the business segments in the narrative reporting 
consistent with those used for the financial reporting in the financial 
statements?
 > Are the key messages in the narrative reflected in the financial reporting?
 > Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the financial 
reporting? 72  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent Director, Dr Abe 
Peled, are available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be 
raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been 
resolved. Arrangements can be made to meet with either of them through the 
Company Secretary. Other Non-Executive Directors may be asked to 
participate in investor meetings and have done so. 
During 2015, there continued to be ongoing communications through a 
combination of face-to-face meetings, phone calls and email correspondence 
with many investors regarding remuneration issues. Before the 2015 AGM, 
updates were provided to several significant and influential shareholders 
regarding changes in some elements of Executive Director Remuneration. 
Further information about these changes is contained in the Annual Statement 
from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, in the Remuneration report on 
pages 73 to 92.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, J.P. Morgan 
Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a 
non-attributed and attributed basis. Any concerns of major shareholders 
would be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors. As a matter 
of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price 
and trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor 
shareholdings. The Board is also regularly provided with current analyst 
opinions and forecasts.
 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING   Shareholders are welcome at the Company’s AGM where they will have an 
opportunity to meet the Board. The notice of the AGM is sent to all 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The Chairmen of the 
Audit and the Remuneration Committees, together with as many Directors as 
possible, will attend the 2016 AGM and be available to answer shareholders’ 
questions. Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll. The proxy votes 
cast, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed on our website and 
announced to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory Information 
Service immediately after the meeting. Facilities are provided for shareholders 
to vote electronically either through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST. 
Details of our results announcements for 2016 are shown below:
  5 MAY 2016
  AGM AND Q1 2016 RESULTS
  4 AUGUST 2016*
 INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE HALF YEAR TO 30 JUNE 2016
  3 NOVEMBER 2016*
  Q3 2016 RESULTS
* These dates are provisional and may change.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its 
shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and 
that it remains accountable to shareholders. The Board as a whole is 
responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes 
place, whilst the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer ensure that 
the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. The 
Board ensures that the Group’s strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in 
terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value. 
In October 2015, the Company held a Capital Markets Day which was attended 
by investors, bankers, and other interested parties. The presentations covered 
the Company’s major business opportunities with presentations from each of 
the key business areas. Positive feedback as to the content and provision of 
information was received; a copy of the presentation has been made available 
on the Company’s website.
 
The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and 
overseas and presentations were also made after publication of the 2014 
Preliminary Results in March 2015. Investor and analyst presentations took 
place after the full year results and interim results have been announced and 
conference calls took place after the announcement of the first and third 
quarterly financial results. There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and 
meetings between the Chairman, Executive Directors and institutional 
investors, fund managers and analysts. At these meetings, a wide range of 
relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and 
governance, are discussed within the constraints of information which has 
already been made public. The Board is aware that institutional shareholders 
may be in more regular contact with the Company than other shareholders, but 
care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all 
shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the 
Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
This audited 2015 Annual Report will be made available to shareholders and all 
results are posted on the Company’s website, as are presentations made in 
respect of the full-year results.
GROUP WEBSITE
WWW.INMARSAT.COM
INVESTOR  PAGE
WWW.INMARSAT.COM/ABOUT-US/INVESTOR-RELATIONS/
SHAREHOLDER  SERVICES
WWW.INMARSAT.COM/ABOUT-US/INVESTOR-RELATIONS/
STRATEGY  PRESENTATIONS
WWW.INMARSAT.COM/ABOUT-US/INVESTOR-RELATIONS/
STRATEGY-PRESENTATIONS/
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 73
REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL STATEMENT
DEAR  SHAREHOLDER
I was appointed Chairman of this Committee in May 2015 and am therefore 
pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, my first Directors’ Remuneration 
report, covering the year ended 31 December 2015.
Similar to last year, this Report is split into three sections: the Chairman’s 
Annual Statement, the Remuneration Policy, and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. Our Remuneration Policy, detailed on pages 74 to 81, remains 
consistent with that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and is 
reproduced in full for both ease of reference and in order to provide context to 
the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
During 2015 we have continued the delivery of our strategic objectives which 
saw significant progress for our aviation business with the European Aviation 
Network initiative and also the introduction of global service of our Global 
Xpress Ka-band satellite constellation. We have also delivered good financial 
results and returns for shareholders. 
In July 2015, the Committee undertook the annual review of our Executive 
Directors’ salaries. This review took into account a number of factors including 
external benchmarking against the FTSE 50-150 (excluding Investment Trusts), 
comparable companies in our sector, an assessment of individual experience 
and performance, and pay conditions across the Group. Following this review, 
the Committee agreed to award an increase of 9% to the CEO and of 3% to the 
CFO, effective July 2015. This compares with an average salary increase of 3% 
across the Group. As set out in this year’s, and previous years’ reports, our CEO 
was appointed at a below-market salary and we committed to moving him up 
gradually to the appropriate level to reflect his demonstrated development in 
the CEO role and the performance of the business. 2015 is the last year we 
anticipate making a material adjustment to his salary. 
For 2015, Executive Directors will receive bonuses of 90.6% (CEO) and 103.1% 
(CFO) of their respective salaries. The bonuses reflect both the good financial 
performance of the Company and the exceptional individual contributions 
made by each of the Executive Directors over the last year. A summary of 
performance against targets is included on pages 83 and 84.
In March 2015, Executive Directors were each granted a Performance Share 
Award (PSA) based on performance over the three financial years to 
31 December 2017. As we explained in our 2014 Remuneration report, we 
introduced strategic objectives as a performance measure in 2015 as all 
elements of those objectives are key drivers to our future success. These 
awards will vest to the extent that challenging EBITDA, relative total shareholder 
return (TSR) and strategic targets are achieved over the period. Half of the 
share award made under the 2013 PSA vested on performance to 31 December 
2015; full payout against the TSR target reflects the strong performance of the 
Company against the benchmark index over that period. The EBITDA target 
was not achieved principally as a consequence of US Government 
sequestration and its impact on our government business, and delays outside 
our control impacting the timing of our Global Xpress satellites from their 
original launch dates.
For 2016, the financial element of the annual bonus (representing 70% of the 
total bonus) will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA and revenue. 
The element on individual performance and contribution will not be weighted 
more than 30% of the total bonus, as now. The Bonus Share Award (BSA) will 
operate on a similar basis to 2015: performance will relate to achievement of 
EBITDA (60% of total award) and revenue (30%) targets, and additionally a 
non-financial metric related to the management of a strategic contract (10%). 
No changes are proposed to the Performance Share Award (PSA) for 2016, 
which will continue to be based on relative TSR, EBITDA and strategic 
objectives. Further detail on the implementation of policy for 2016 is included 
on page 87.
The Committee will continue to monitor market trends throughout 2016 in 
order to assess ongoing requirements for the Company’s remuneration 
practices, and will consult with shareholders ahead of making significant 
changes to the remuneration structure. The appropriateness of a longer PSA 
time horizon will be considered by the Committee in time for our next policy 
vote at our 2017 AGM.
A resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration (which is subject 
to an advisory vote) will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May.
As was my predecessor, I am available to meet and discuss our Remuneration 
Policy with shareholders.
SIMON BAX
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
3 March 2016
SIMON BAX
CHAIRMAN,  REMUNERATION  COMMITTEE 74  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM. The report below is as disclosed 
in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration report save a number of minor changes as follows:
 > References to financial years have been updated where appropriate;
 > Share awards made after the 2014 AGM have been renamed BSAs and PSAs following shareholder approval of the Executive Share Plan (ESP) at the 2014 AGM;
 > Minor revisions have been made to the performance metrics for BSA and PSA awards, and the annual bonus, from 2015 and details are shown on pages 87 
and 88; and
 > Pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2016 salaries, benefits and pension contributions.
The Group’s Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking 
rewards to the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group. When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem 
necessary, including the Group’s overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our 
Long Range Business Plan (LRBP), pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation. Where appropriate, we will consult with 
shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements. 
The Committee is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve 
the Company’s objectives which will create value for shareholders.
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance
BASIC  SALARY
Paying market-competitive 
base salaries, commensurate 
with the individual’s role, 
responsibilities and 
experience allows us to 
recruit and retain Executive 
Directors of the calibre 
required to implement our 
strategy.
Salaries are reviewed annually with 
any increase usually made in July or 
following a material change in 
responsibilities. The Committee will 
determine any increases to 
be made.
Any increase is determined by a 
formal appraisal by the Committee, 
taking into account market pay 
levels, a review of salaries against 
companies of similar size, 
complexity and type, Group 
performance, as well as the 
remuneration arrangements 
operated throughout the Group, 
with reference to UK-based 
employees in particular for pay 
comparison levels. 
Salary increases will be applied in 
line with the outcome of an annual 
salary review.
The maximum annual salary 
increase will normally be in line with 
the average increase applied to the 
UK workforce. However, larger 
increases may be awarded in certain 
circumstances including, but not 
limited to, an increase in scope or 
responsibility of the role; to apply 
salary progression for a newly 
appointed Director; where the 
Director’s salary has fallen behind 
market positioning. Where increases 
are awarded in excess of that for the 
UK employee population, the 
Committee will provide the rationale 
in the relevant year’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
As previously disclosed to 
shareholders, 2015 is the last year 
where it is anticipated that the CEO’s 
salary will increase at a greater level 
than that for the general employee 
population as his salary was 
intentionally set below market rates 
on appointment because he was 
new to the role as CEO.
not applicable FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 75
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance
BENEFITS  IN  KIND
We provide cost-effective 
benefits which support the 
wellbeing of employees.
Provision of death, disability and 
medical insurance cover (which can 
include spouse and dependents 
cover). Life assurance of 4 x salary, 
paid holiday and medical check-ups 
are also provided. 
If required, the Company would 
provide access to independent 
financial and legal advice on a 
case-by-case basis.
Cash in lieu of a company car 
was previously provided to one 
Director although it is not 
anticipated this will be offered 
generally to Executive Directors.
These benefits are non-
pensionable.
The benefits provided may vary by 
role and levels of cover provided 
reflect market practice and the 
individual circumstances of the 
Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current 
cost of benefits (as set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration) 
would increase materially over the 
period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to approve a higher cost 
in exceptional circumstances (eg 
relocation) or in circumstances 
where factors outside the 
Company’s control have changed 
materially (eg market increases in 
insurance costs).
not applicable
PENSION We provide defined 
contribution pension 
arrangements, or cash in lieu 
of pension.
The Executive Directors are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s 
defined contribution pension plan 
arrangements or other similar 
pension plans as appropriate to the 
Executive Director’s nationality or 
location. The Company also 
operates an auto-enrolment 
pension scheme which an Executive 
Director could participate in instead 
of the main pension plan.
Contributions are based on a 
percentage of salary which is 
currently limited to a pensions cap. 
Maximum employer contributions 
are currently 12.5% of the capped 
salary under the terms of the UK 
pension plan. 
 
The Committee may review pension 
contribution levels in the future as 
benchmarking reflects that the 
current contribution levels and 
method of calculation are 
off-market. Any increase in 
contributions would not result in a 
pension contribution in excess of 
20% of the uncapped basic salary.
not applicable
ANNUAL  CASH BONUS
We provide an annual bonus 
to incentivise the 
achievement of annual 
financial and operational 
goals in line with 
Group strategy. 
Performance metrics are 
selected to support the 
annual business strategy 
which we believe also lead to 
enhancement of shareholder 
value.
Bonus payment levels are 
determined by the Committee 
annually by reference to 
performance against targets set at 
the start of the financial year. 
Personal objectives are set annually 
by the Committee.
In exceptional circumstances, the 
Committee has the ability to 
exercise discretion to override the 
formulaic bonus outcome within the 
limits of the scheme where it 
believes the outcome is not truly 
reflective of performance, and to 
reflect the actual delivery of value 
to shareholders. Any discretionary 
adjustments will be detailed in the 
following year’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
The Committee may exercise its 
discretion to clawback bonuses in 
certain exceptional circumstances 
which may include (but are not 
limited to) gross misconduct, fraud 
or a significant downward revision of 
the financial results of the Group. 
Maximum opportunity:
125% of salary.
Target opportunity:
75% of salary.
Bonus is based on 
achievement of annual 
financial and 
personal objectives.
The personal element will not 
be weighted more than 30% 
of the total in any year
Details of the measures and 
weightings applicable for the 
financial year under review 
are provided in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 
The Committee may change 
the measures used if other 
measures are deemed more 
suitable to allow delivery of 
the Company’s strategy. 76  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance
BONUS  SHARE  AWARD (BSA)   We provide the opportunity 
to participate in the BSA as it 
links the delivery of 
short-term financial and 
operational performance to 
sustained shareholder value 
creation. 
Participation in the BSA 
reinforces continued delivery 
of the LRBP.
We make annual monetary awards 
which convert to a number of shares 
subject to achievement of agreed 
annual financial targets. The 
resulting shares vest over the 
subsequent three years, subject to 
continued employment.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued 
dividends over the vesting period 
are awarded only on the number of 
shares that vest.
Unvested awards and vested awards 
that have not yet been transferred 
to the Executive Director are subject 
to adjustment for malus and 
clawback, ie forfeiture or reduction 
in exceptional circumstances. Such 
circumstances may include (but are 
not limited to) gross misconduct, 
fraud or a significant downward 
revision of the previously reported 
financial results of the Group.
Maximum opportunity for all 
Executive Directors is up to 200% of 
salary (300% in exceptional 
circumstances).
The Committee’s current intention is 
to make awards of up to 200% and 
175% of salary for the CEO and 
CFO, respectively.
Threshold performance results in 
60% conversion of the monetary 
award into shares.
The Committee sets annual 
performance measures 
(currently based on the same 
financial objectives as for the 
annual cash bonus plan) and 
may change these for future 
awards as it considers 
appropriate.
PERFORMANCE  SHARE  AWARD  (PSA) 
We believe the PSA aligns 
executives’ interests with 
long-term shareholder value 
creation through rewarding 
the delivery of a mix of 
financial measures and 
relative TSR.
The financial performance 
measures in the PSA reflect 
the value drivers in the LRBP.
We make annual awards of shares, 
which vest after at least three years 
subject to performance over a 
three-year period.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued 
dividends over the vesting period 
are awarded only on the number of 
shares that vest.
Unvested awards are subject to 
adjustment for malus and clawback, 
ie forfeiture or reduction in 
exceptional circumstances. Such 
circumstances may include (but are 
not limited to) gross misconduct, 
fraud or a significant downward 
revision of the previously reported 
financial results of the Group. 
Maximum opportunity for all 
Executive Directors is up to 200% 
of salary (300% in exceptional 
circumstances).
Threshold performance will result 
in the vesting of 30%/0%/0% of 
the maximum award under the 
TSR/EBITDA/strategic 
performance elements.
The intended award levels are 
included in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration on page 88.
The performance measures 
and respective weightings 
may vary year-on-year to 
reflect strategic priorities, and 
will include a financial market 
measure. Measures for 
outstanding PSPs include an 
element for relative TSR and 
EBITDA, and PSAs from 2015 
include a third element linked 
to strategic performance.
Details of the measures and 
weightings applicable for the 
financial year under review 
are provided in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 
Changes to weightings and 
performance targets will be 
retrospectively explained to 
shareholders.
EMPLOYEE  SHARE  PLANS
To encourage share 
ownership across all 
employees as allowed by 
HMRC and relevant local 
laws.
We operate employee share savings 
plans for our global workforce where, 
depending on location, savings 
periods of between two and three 
years operate. 
We will look at opportunities to offer 
other employee share plans in the 
future.
Participation levels set by HMRC or 
relevant local laws from time to time.
not applicable FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 77
REPLACEMENT SHARE PLANS
The Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan (ESP) was approved by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans. Share awards 
since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP the Company can grant BSAs and PSAs, which replicate the 
previous Bonus Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards. The Company 
will also be able to grant Restricted Share Awards under the ESP. Restricted Share 
Awards will not be subject to performance conditions, and will not be granted to 
Executive Directors except on recruitment, as explained below in the approach to 
recruitment remuneration.
The Company also received shareholder approval at its 2014 AGM for the 
Inmarsat plc 2014 Sharesave Plan and the Inmarsat plc 2014 Share Incentive 
Plan, replacing the previous Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan which 
had expired. Executive Directors are eligible to participate in these plans.
PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING VARIABLE PAY AWARDS
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior 
to the approval and implementation in May 2014 of the Remuneration Policy. 
Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force 
at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when it is not 
consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
Details of outstanding share awards to Executive Directors are provided in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
PERFORMANCE  MEASUREMENT  SELECTION
Our incentive plans (excluding restricted share awards and all-employee share 
plans) all include financial performance requirements. Performance targets are 
set to be stretching, taking into account the Company’s strategic priorities and 
the economic environment in which the Company operates. Targets are set 
taking into account a range of reference points including the Group and 
Business Units’ LRBP, broker forecasts, and latest forecasts. Achievement of 
these targets delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP.
The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reflect the financial targets which the 
Board believes are key to driving the business. Revenue and EBITDA reflect the 
underlying financial success of the business and support the annual business 
strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsat’s shareholders.
The PSA currently has three performance requirements, which are EBITDA 
growth, the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE 50-150 excluding 
investment trusts, and strategic objectives. All three performance metrics are 
linked to our long-term business strategy, and support shareholder 
value creation.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust and/or set different performance 
measures following a corporate event (such as a change in strategy, a material 
acquisition and/or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing 
market conditions) which causes the Committee to determine that the 
measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that 
they achieve their original purpose.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined 
on the same principle as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward 
should support our business strategy. It should be sufficient to attract and 
retain high-performing individuals.
As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements 
that are appropriate to apply but, overall, this principle applies across the 
different geographies in which we operate. Employees receive variable pay 
which gives them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is 
reflective of how we deal with Executive Directors too.
In general, the Remuneration Policy and principles which apply to other senior 
executives is consistent with that set out in this Report for Executive Directors. 
All employees participate in bonus schemes. Group senior executives are 
eligible to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA. 
The BSA may operate with division-specific targets for some participants, 
as appropriate.
All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are 
generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent international plan. 
Generally, participation is on the same terms subject to local regulations.
SHAREHOLDING  GUIDELINES
The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold five times base salary in 
beneficially owned ordinary shares.
For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build up a 
shareholding to the five times guideline over a period of time, generally within 
five to seven years.
PAY SCENARIO CHARTS
The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward 
opportunities for the two current Executive Directors (CEO and CFO), and the 
potential split between the different elements of pay under three different 
performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘Target’ and ‘Maximum’. Potential reward 
opportunities are based on Inmarsat’s current Remuneration Policy, applied to 
salaries, benefits and pensions as at 1 January 2016. Note that the projected 
values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions:
 > Minimum:  includes fixed remuneration only, ie base salary, taxable benefits 
and pension or cash allowance. 
 > Target: includes fixed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target 
performance under the annual cash bonus plan (60% of maximum) and BSA 
(60% of maximum monetary value of 185% and 175% of salary for the CEO 
and CFO respectively), and threshold performance under the PSA 
(30%/0%/0% of maximum under the TSR/EBITDA/strategic performance 
elements, based on maximum opportunities of 185% and 175% of salary for 
the CEO and CFO respectively).
 > Maximum:  includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment under all 
incentive plans. 
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE ($‘000s)
CEO CFO
Minimum Target Maximum
485
1,392
2,687
18%
22%
60%
35% 100%
25%
40%
17%
21%
62%
34% 100%
24%
42%
Minimum Target Maximum
589
1,736
3,390
Fixed salary Annual bonus LTIP 78  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
EXTERNAL  APPOINTMENTS
In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors (including but not 
limited to external market data, current remuneration, the type of remuneration arrangements for other Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was 
recruited from) to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary. The 
Remuneration Policy in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the 
Committee as appropriate to offer.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to ‘buy-out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, 
we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted (for example, cash or 
shares), the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out. Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis. The 
Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as BSAs, PSAs or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP. The Committee may 
also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules (Chapter 9.4.2) regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a 
previous employer.
Component Approach Maximum annual value
Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal 
relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and
benefits
To be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, and as well as any expatriation allowances 
and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Director’s relocation on appointment.
Sharesave
Scheme
To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees. 
Annual cash   bonus
The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees. The Committee will determine on a 
case-by-case basis whether the executive will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount. 
125% of salary
Bonus Share   Awards
To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the 
policy table.
Up to 200% of salary (300% 
in exceptional circumstances)
Performance  Share Awards
To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the 
policy table. 
Up to 200% of salary (300% 
in exceptional circumstances)
Restricted  Share Awards
To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule which will be agreed by the Committee, 
subject to continued employment only. Awards will typically be made to facilitate the ‘buy-out’ of awards 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting schedule will typically match that of the awards 
forfeited. Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the 
number of shares that vest.
Up to 200% of salary (300% 
in exceptional circumstances)
INTERNAL  APPOINTMENTS
Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of 
remuneration and benefits. Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of 
several years, subject to the executive’s development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 79
NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTORS
For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them 
and set out details of their fees (base fee and committee membership fee). Fees will be the same level as for other Non-Executive Directors, except where the 
Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution. Reasonable expenses will also be paid and cover will be 
provided to all Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, under the Company’s Directors’ and Officers’ insurance policy. 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-Executive  Director fees   and  Committee  fees
To attract and retain 
high-calibre Non-
Executive Directors by 
offering a market 
competitive fee level.
The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee. 
The Committee Chairmen and other members of the Board Committees (Audit, 
Remuneration, Nominations, and the newly created Telecoms Regulatory 
Committee) and the Senior Independent Director are paid supplements to reflect 
their additional responsibilities. 
The Chairman of the Board will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities, and 
receive healthcare cover.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and 
Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE 
companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board. The Chairman’s fee 
is reviewed by the Committee taking into account fee levels at the same set of 
companies, and is then approved by the Board. If any changes are to be made, 
they are usually effective in July.
To avoid setting 
expectations, there is no 
maximum fee level.
Aggregate fees were 
increased to £1m following 
approval by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM.
The fees paid to Non-
Executive Directors in 
respect of the year under 
review (and for the following 
year) are disclosed in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY
Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period
Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months’ written notice by Company or Director
Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months’ written notice by Company and 6 months’ written 
notice by the Director
The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director. All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice 
to be made. For the Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly (up to 12 months) and these payments shall be reduced if the executive 
finds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one year’s base salary plus other benefits, which may include annual bonus 
(subject to performance conditions being fulfilled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date), unless the Committee believes 
this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith:
 > in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or
 > by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into 
consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves. The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following year’s Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 80  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
A ‘good leaver’ is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of 
ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the 
Committee in its absolute discretion permits. Termination for cause is regarded 
as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be transferred to 
participants within such period as the Committee may permit based on the 
extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions 
have been met. Alternatively, participants shall be required to give up existing 
share awards and receive shares in the new company being equivalent to the 
original award. For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance 
against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be 
pro-rated for time and paid immediately. The final treatment for the annual 
bonus remains subject to the Committee’s discretion.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’s service 
contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the 
Committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no 
reward for failure. When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to 
the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to 
the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Director’s performance, 
the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of 
notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director (where it is in the service 
agreement) to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the 
Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a 
leaving Executive Director’s termination package, including (without limitation) 
compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a 
settlement agreement, payment of the departing Executive Director’s legal 
fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of 
outplacement fees. In addition, the Committee may determine that the 
Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy 
arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTORS
Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment
Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013
Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005
Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005
Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 
Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009
Dr Abraham Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013
Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015
Andrew Sukawaty
(1)
16 September 2014 1 January 2015
Dr Hamadoun Touré 16 December 2014 1 March 2015
(1) Andrew Sukawaty became Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 
2015. He was previously Executive Chairman.
Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, they 
may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in 
office, whichever is the shorter. The UK Corporate Governance Code has special 
provisions regarding determination of the independence of Directors when 
they have served for more than nine years.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards
ANNUAL  BONUS
Good leaver (see below for definition) Normal payment date Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year 
in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time 
served during the year
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable
BSA AND BSP
Good leaver (see below for definition) Normal vesting date, although the 
Committee has discretion to accelerate
Any earned but not yet transferred shares will be retained. The 
treatment of unvested shares is at the Committee’s discretion
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable
PSA AND PSP
Good leaver (see below for definition) Normal vesting date, although the 
Committee has discretion to accelerate 
Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and subject to 
performance conditions being met
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable
RSA
Good leaver (see below for definition) Normal vesting date, although the 
Committee has discretion to accelerate 
Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
Good leaver (see below for definition) Share options can be exercised for a 
certain period of time after departure
The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options in 
accordance with HMRC approved rules or local equivalent rules
All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 81
ANNUAL REPORT ON 
REMUNERATION
The following section provides details of how Inmarsat’s Remuneration Policy 
was implemented during the financial year ending 31 December 2015 and how 
the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2016.
The Regulations require our external auditors to report to shareholders on the 
audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the 
relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act. The external 
auditors’ opinion is set out on pages 95 to 99 and we have clearly marked the 
audited sections of the Report. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2015
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors. We 
had four scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities. 
Committee membership and attendance are set out in the table below:
Number of scheduled meetings in 2015 Attendance 
Simon Bax (Committee Chairman) since 6 May 2015 4/4
Stephen Davidson (Committee Chairman) until 6 May 2015 4/4
Sir Bryan Carsberg 4/4
Kathleen Flaherty 4/4
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) 4/4
During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which ensured 
that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year. Its key 
activities included:
 > annual review of Executive Director salaries;
 > review of performance outcomes for the annual bonus, BSA and PSA in 
respect of performance to 31 December 2014 and anticipated award levels 
for schemes maturing in 2015 as these are finalised in the March meeting 
following the year end;
 > review of potential changes to the operation of the BSA and PSA;
 > calibration of award levels and targets for the 2015 BSA and PSA awards for 
the Executive Directors; 
 > review of incentive plans across the Group;
 > review of the Non-Executive Chairman’s fee;
 > preparation of the Directors’ Remuneration report; 
 > consideration of shareholder views on issues which may have arisen during 
the year and comments from those who were contacted ahead of the 2015 
AGM; and
 > preparation for the 2015 AGM.
ADVISERS
During 2015, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty 
(Chairman), Rupert Pearce (CEO), Tony Bates (CFO), Debbie Jones (Chief 
People Officer), Alison Horrocks (Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company 
Secretary) and Matt Smith (Head of Reward). John Rennocks, the Company’s 
former Deputy Chairman and SID, also attended meetings, as has Dr Abe Peled 
who became SID in November 2015. No member of management is present at 
a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their 
appointment will normally terminate on:
 > a Director choosing to resign voluntarily;
 > a Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness;
 > if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of 
the appointment;
 > a Director is found guilty of misconduct; or
 > a Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at 
an AGM.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not 
participate in any of the Company’s incentive plans. They receive no benefits, 
except that healthcare cover is provided for the Chairman, as a continuation of 
the cover provided to him previously. The Company reimburses the reasonable 
expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their duties 
as Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS   Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the board of other 
companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from 
outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external board 
appointments. Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any 
guidelines for external directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance 
Code, subject at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the 
Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration 
policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration 
arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on 
remuneration for senior executives. This relates to philosophy around levels of 
base salary, operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and 
benefit provision also being available across the Group. 
The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a 
range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where it 
operates. Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line 
managers or to the HR team or to a confidential email address which will receive 
queries on all issues including anti-bribery.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views 
and the guidelines of investor bodies. The Remuneration Committee Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director (SID), and Company Secretary engage pro-
actively with major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever 
appropriate. The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on 
Remuneration Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to 
consulting shareholders in advance of major changes. Details of votes cast for 
and against the resolution to approve last year’s Remuneration report are 
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Report.  82  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Kepler (a brand of Mercer) was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and has continued 
to act as the Committee’s independent external adviser during the year. Kepler’s responsibilities include a mandate to review our remuneration principles and 
practices against corporate governance best practice. Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration Consultants (which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). Kepler provides no non-remuneration-related services to the 
Company and is therefore considered independent. Kepler’s parent, Mercer, provides unrelated services to the Company in the areas of pension investment advice 
and actuarial services to the Trustee to the Inmarsat UK Pension Plan. During 2015, Kepler’s fees were based on time and materials, and fees (excluding VAT and 
expenses) totalled £51,150 (2014: £36,300). 
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2015 AGM
The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration of the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration report at the 
2015 AGM: 
 Annual Report on Remuneration
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary) 233,600,610 71.61%
Against 92,600,415 28.39%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 326,201,025 100%
Votes withheld 30,166,200 n/a
The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders with a 97% vote for at the 2014 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders with a 72% vote for. The Committee is mindful of some shareholders who voted against, and 
understand that this largely reflected some shareholders’ views on the introduction of strategic measures within the PSA from 2015. The Committee takes seriously 
shareholders’ voting on the Directors’ Remuneration report, and consulted with the Company’s major shareholders in early 2015 in advance of introducing 
strategic measures in the PSA, and we had further discussions with shareholders later in the year. Whilst many shareholders were in favour of the strategic 
measures, others preferred to use purely financial objectives. The Committee considered these views when finalising its plans for the structure for the 2015 PSA. 
The Committee continued to believe that the strategic measures are focused on the long-term operational future of the business and will ultimately drive 
shareholder value and it was appropriate therefore to include them as a performance measure. The Company continues to commit to retaining an element of the 
PSA based on financial performance.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this 
translates into our executive Remuneration Policy. 
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year: 
£’000
Rupert Pearce Tony Bates
2015 2014 2015 2014
Basic salary 542 485 457 263
Taxable benefits
(1)
9 8 6 3
Pension
(2)
16 16 16 9
Annual bonus
(3)
491 622 471 563
Bonus Share Award
(4)
1,037 677 787 450
Long-term incentives
(5)
510 786 – –
Total 2,605 2,594 1,737 1,288
(1) The taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors include healthcare benefits and benefits relating to staff entertaining. The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is 
settled by the Company. The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are 
domiciled. These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable. 
(2) Represents the pension payment made by the employer to the individual Director as cash in lieu of pension (see page 86 for details).
(3) Represents the annual bonus payment in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 (see pages 83 and 84 for details).
(4) Represents the face value of the shares as at March 2015 to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and awarded under the 
Bonus Share Award in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2014 (see pages 84 and 85 for details).
(5) PSA granted in 2012, which vested in March 2015 based on performance to 31 December 2014, is valued using the share price on the date of vesting of £9.41. This amount has been 
revised from last year’s report to reflect the actual share price on vesting plus reinvested dividends on vested shares. 50% of the 2013 award will vest in March 2016 based on 
performance. As the share price on the date of vesting is currently unknown the value shown is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2015 of £10.36.
Mr Sukawaty was included in the table in 2014 as an Executive Director. His 2014 remuneration comprised a basic salary of £615k, taxable benefits of £38k, pension 
of £88k, and annual bonus of £738k. His Bonus Share Award totalled £1,181k and long-term incentives of £1,222k. His total remuneration was £3,882k for 2014. In 
2015, he received a fee as Non-Executive Chairman, detailed on page 83. Details of benefits he received from share awards that vested are shown on page 85.
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 83
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year: 
£’000
Base fee Additional fees Taxable benefits
(1)
Total 
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Andrew Sukawaty
(2) 
  299.1 – – – 20.0 – 319.1 –
Simon Bax  52.2 50.8 8.1 4.5 0.2 – 60.5 55.3
Sir Bryan Carsberg 52.2 50.8 10.1 9.0 0.8 1.0 63.1 59.8
Stephen Davidson 52.2 50.8 17.4 19.0 1.2  1.0 70.8 69.8
Kathleen Flaherty 52.2 50.8 4.5  4.5 – – 56.7 55.3
General C. Robert Kehler 
(Rtd)
(3)
105.1. 67.0 4.5 3.0 – – 109.6 70.0
Janice Obuchowski 52.2 50.8 5.6 4.5 – – 57.8 55.3
Dr Abraham Peled
(4)
54.5 50.8 5.6 4.5 – – 60.1 55.3
Robert Ruijter
(5)
49.8 – 3.1 – – – 52.9 –
Dr Hamadoun Touré
(6)
46.6 – 3.8 – – – 50.4 –
John Rennocks
(7)
83.8 95.5 8.3 10.0 2.0 1.0 94.1 105.5
Total 899.9 467.3 71.0 59.0 24.2 3.0 995.1 529.3
Fees converted to GBP, where relevant, using an exchange rate of $1.51 = £1.00.
(1) The taxable benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings. The tax due in respect of 
these benefits is settled by the Company. The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take 
place in the country in which they are domiciled. These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible.
(2) As set out in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration report, Mr Sukawaty continues to receive healthcare cover as a continuation of the cover provided to him over the last 10 years. 
Mr Sukawaty’s outstanding PSA awards (made to him when he was Executive Chairman) will also vest to him on a time pro-rata basis on their respective normal vesting dates, subject to 
performance and continued employment (see page 85 for vesting details). Mr Sukawaty’s salary as Executive Chairman is shown immediately above this table.
(3) The fees for General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) include a fee of £52,942 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US.
(4) Dr Peled was appointed as Senior Independent Director as of 6 November 2015.
(5) Mr Ruijter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2015.
(6) Dr Touré was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2015. In addition to the fees reported in the table above, a consultancy firm which used the services of 
Dr Touré during 2015 charged the Company a fee of $30,000 for 30 days’ consultancy, and other costs including travel, entertaining and hotel accommodation of approximately 
$9,700. This work was not undertaken by Dr Touré in his capacity as a Non-Executive Director and related to a specific project which required focused time commitment. It is not expected 
that he will provide consultancy services on a regular basis.
(7) Mr Rennocks retired from the Board on 6 November 2015.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015   ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2015 PERFORMANCE   In 2015, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets and individual performance objectives.
As part of a process of refocusing on Group performance and more closely aligning the bonus schemes across the Group, 2015 performance was measured by 
reference to revenue (33%) and EBITDA targets (67%). Revenue and EBITDA are two measures which have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two 
of our key reporting metrics to shareholders. The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees. The Committee has the ability to 
apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
In line with the previous approach, the Committee will disclose the 2015 financial targets in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. We believe the targets used 
are commercially sensitive if made public in the same reporting period as to which they apply.
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2015 are noted below. Some have been excluded where we believe they may be commercially 
sensitive if published.
CEO:
 > Deliver on the 2015 financial budget as to revenues and EBITDA performance.
 > Ensure the on-time launch and deployment of Inmarsat-5 F2 and F3.
 > Maintain the Global Xpress Ka-band programme to enable global service launch on time and to budget.
 > Manage the Company’s position regarding LightSquared while it is in bankruptcy.
 > Make meaningful progress for the aviation opportunity in Europe.
CFO:
 > Deliver on the 2015 financial budget as to revenues and EBITDA performance.
 > Complete SAP financial system roll-out on time and to budget.
 > Ensure new internal and external financial reporting is in place and operating well.
 > Establish a Group-wide procurement strategy and capability to deliver cost savings to the business. 84  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
In 2015, revenues were $1,274m, which exceeded target performance but fell short of stretch. EBITDA was $726m, which exceeded stretch performance. However, 
in considering the underlying performance of the business, the Remuneration Committee felt that contributions from a strategic contract should be only partially 
applied as a fair reflection of the performance of the Company overall. On a formulaic basis, the bonus payout in respect of financial performance is 92.5% of 
maximum. However, the Committee used its discretion to adjust downwards the payout to be 75% of that element (which translates into 65.6% of salary for each of 
the Executive Directors out of a maximum of 87.5% of salary linked to financial performance). 
The Committee also considered the Executive Directors’ achievement of personal objectives during the year, and payout in respect of personal performance was 
25% and 37.5% of salary for the CEO and the CFO, respectively. 
The maximum and target annual bonus amounts that could be made and actual cash bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out in the 
next table.
Executive Director
Target bonus
(% of salary)
Maximum bonus
(% of salary)
Actual bonus 
outcome for 2015 
financial year
(% of salary)
Bonus paid for the 
2014 financial year
(% of salary)
Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 90.6% 120%
Tony Bates 75% 125% 103.1% 125%
ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2014 PERFORMANCE   Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2014 bonus financial targets in this year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. The targets and actual 
performance against them are set out below.
Measure
Weighting  
(% of financial element)
Performance targets
$m
Actual 
performance 
$m
Payout  
(% of financial 
element)
 
On-target Stretch
Revenue 50% 1,109 1,192 1,286 50%
Opex 35% 394 375 372 35%
Capex 15% 610 581 425 15%
TOTAL 100% 100%
EBITDA Underpin for ABP $619m $619m $701m Underpin met
In determining the final bonus outcome, the Committee also considered broader Company performance. Taking into account the Company’s outperformance of 
stretch targets for all the financial measures and its achievement of the EBITDA underpin, and the wider performance and contributions of the CEO and CFO in 
2014, the overall bonus outcomes were 120% and 125% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively. The Committee believes these outcomes are warranted and 
reflect strong Company and individual performance in 2014. Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2014 were provided in last year’s 
Annual Report on Remuneration. 
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2014 PERFORMANCE
Details of the financial targets and actual performance against targets in respect of the 2014 BSP award are provided in the ‘Annual cash bonus in respect of 2014 
performance’ section above.
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2015
An allocation of shares was made on 27 March 2015 at a share price of £9.3375 in respect of the March 2015 BSA monetary awards. The confirmation of these 
awards is based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2015. The performance targets were achieved in full and the full number of 
shares originally allocated in March 2015 will be awarded in March 2016. Under the BSA, the maximum number of shares is awarded for target performance and 
does not increase for outperformance. The performance measures, weightings and actual performance against target were as follows:
Performance measure Weighting (% of maximum) Actual performance against target
Revenue 33% Revenues were $1,274m, which exceeded threshold and target performance, and therefore the full 
allocation is made 
EBITDA 66% EBITDA was $726m, which exceeded threshold and target performance, and therefore the full 
allocation is made
Based on performance achieved against each of the measures, 100% of the allocated shares will be awarded and will vest in March 2017, 2018 and 2019. 
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 85
The table below shows the confirmation of the number of shares awarded for the 2015 BSP Award.
Executive Director
Maximum 
monetary award
Share price on date 
of allocation  
(27 March 2015) 
Number of shares 
allocated in 
March 2015
Conversion rate 
based on 
performance for 
year ended 
31 December 2015 
Confirmed number 
of shares awarded 
in March 2016
Rupert Pearce £1,037,294 £9.34 111,089 100% 111,089
Tony Bates £787,496 £9.34 84,337 100% 84,337
2013 PSP VESTING
On 19 March 2013, the then Executive Chairman and CEO received PSP awards of 201,262 and 98,435 shares. Vesting of the awards was dependent on three-year 
TSR vs. the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) and three-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2015 and weighted equally. 
There was no re-testing of performance. Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
Performance measure Weighting (% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs. 
FTSE 350 (excluding 
investment trusts)
50% Below median: nil vesting
Median: 30% vesting
Upper quartile: 100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA growth pa 50% Less than 1%: nil vesting
1%: 0% vesting
3.5%: 100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 1% and 3.5%)
The EBITDA target was not achieved for the three-year period, and therefore there is no vesting due for 50% of the total award. As explained in the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman’s Annual Statement, EBITDA was not achieved because of some specific factors, including the effect of US sequestration on our government 
business and the delay of the launches of our Inmarsat-5 satellites which were beyond our control. In respect of relative TSR, the Company’s performance was at 
the 75th percentile vs. the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts), which gave a vesting outcome of 50% of the total award. The total amount that will vest on 
19 March 2016, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 50% of the maximum award. 
The then Executive Chairman’s (now Non-Executive Chairman) 2013 PSA award is reduced on a time pro-rata basis for the period he served as an Executive 
Director, ie 19 March 2013 to 31 December 2014. Therefore, 59,819 shares, plus shares added in lieu of accrued dividends, will vest to the Chairman on 
19 March 2016.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2015 (AUDITED)
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2014
An allocation of shares was made in respect of the March 2014 BSP monetary awards based on Company performance for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The share award was based on the mid-market closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 
2015. As advised in the 2014 Annual Report the conversion rate was 100% of the monetary amount into an award of shares which vest in equal tranches in March 
2016, 2017 and 2018, subject to continued employment.
Executive Director
Maximum  
monetary award Conversion rate
Date of share 
award
Awards made  
during the year
 Market price at 
date of award in 
March 2015
Face value at  
date of award
Rupert Pearce £676,500 100% 6 March 2015 75,947 £8.91 £676,500
Tony Bates £450,000 100% 6 March 2015 50,519 £8.91 £450,000
The then Executive Chairman (now Non-Executive Chairman), received a monetary award of £1,181,148 in March 2014 which was converted into 132,601 shares in 
March 2015, with a face value at date of award of £1,181,148. The Chairman is eligible to receive these shares when they vest as he was an Executive Director during 
the entire performance period.
2015 PSA
In March 2015, the Executive Directors received PSA share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2017.
Executive Director Date of grant
Awards made  
during the year
Market price at  
date of award
Face value at  
date of award
Award as % of 
salary Vesting date
Rupert Pearce 30 March 2015 111,089 £9.34 £1,037,294 200% 30 March 2018
Tony Bates 30 March 2015 84,337 £9.34 £787,497 175% 30 March 2018 86  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The award levels fall within the normal maximum permitted under the Remuneration Policy, and were determined taking into account the overall market pay data, 
the performance of the Company and the individuals’ strong personal performance and contribution to shareholder value creation over the year. 
Vesting of the awards will be dependent on three-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 (excluding investment trusts), three-year EBITDA growth and achievement of 
specific strategic objectives. As discussed in the 2014 Annual Report, 2015 was the first year we introduced the use of strategic objectives as a performance 
measure in our long-term share plan. The Company believes that it is important for management to be focused on delivering critical strategic programmes which 
will drive long-term shareholder value creation. The strategic objectives described below are the ones identified to deliver this value. The targets will be measured 
over the three years to 31 December 2017 and weighted 30%/30%/40% respectively. There will be no re-testing of performance. Performance targets for these 
awards, and part-cycle updates on achievement against the strategic objectives, are as follows:
Performance measure
Weighting  
(% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs.  
FTSE 50-150 (excluding 
investment trusts)
30% Below median: nil vesting 
Median: 30% vesting 
Upper quartile: 100% vesting 
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA 
growth pa
30% Less than 4%: nil vesting
10%: 100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 4% and 10%)
Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are:
 > Global Xpress: Completion of the successful launch and market entry for next generation of 
Inmarsat-5 satellites
        Part-cycle update: at the end of 2015, three Inmarsat-5 satellites had been successfully launched and global 
service was announced.
 > S-band: Putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case which will support 
material revenues beyond 2017
        Part-cycle update: we have received 28 MSS licenses and 18 ACGC licenses. We also announced the European 
Aviation Network which included a partnership with Deutsche Telekom and a flight trial by Lufthansa of the 
system in 2017.
 > L -band: Sustaining L -band revenues despite migration of services from L -band to Global Xpress 
Ka-band, through a re-orientation, expansion and globalisation of L -band services
        Part-cycle update: at the end of 2015, we had continued our focus on L -band product and solution development 
such as a smaller maritime terminal for fishing vessels, continued development of a core module to be used in 
chip sets and developing our offering for the machine-to-machine market.
Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key 
achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period.
PENSION  (AUDITED)
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Company’s defined contribution pension plan arrangements. None participate in the defined benefit plan. 
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as 
additional salary. An amount of 12.5% of capped salary is the highest amount that could be paid under the existing arrangements. The capped salary level 
increases nominally each year.
Pensionable salary is currently limited to basic salary and subject to a specific earnings cap which we apply for participants in our UK Pension Plan.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK defined contribution pension plan. The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an 
employee able to retire from age 55.
The current employer contributions (subject to the cap of £145,200 for the 2014/15 tax year and £147,600 for the 2015/16 tax year) are 12.5% of capped salary. 
This amount is reduced for the cost to the Company of the employer national insurance. The effect of which is that the Executive Directors receive an equivalent 11% 
of capped salary:
Rupert Pearce £16k, equivalent to 2.8% of salary, was paid in 2015 
Tony Bates £16k, equivalent to 3.4% of salary, was paid in 2015 
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 87
EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR (AUDITED)
There were no exit payments made in 2015. 
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
No payments were made to past Directors.
EXTERNAL  APPOINTMENTS
The Executive Directors do not currently hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2016
BASE SALARY
The table below shows the Executive Directors’ salaries as at July 2014 and July 2015. Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2016, which is the same time for the 
general workforce.
Executive Director
Salary at 1 July 2015 
£‘000 % change
Salary at 1 July 2014 
£‘000
Rupert Pearce 566 9% 519
Tony Bates 464 3% 450
We have already indicated to shareholders that the Committee expected to increase Mr Pearce’s salary gradually over a period of time to reflect his demonstrated 
development in the CEO role and the performance of the business. Mr Pearce was appointed as CEO in 2012 on a salary that was significantly below the median level 
for a FTSE 50-150 CEO. Mr Pearce received no increase in 2013, in line with the salary freeze for the wider employee population. We made an initial increase in 2014 
which reflected Mr Pearce’s continued strong performance in his role and significant contribution to the business, and took into account the 2013 salary freeze. 
A salary of £519,000 remained bottom quartile for a FTSE 50-150 CEO; in this context, the Committee made an increase in July 2015 of 9% to £565,710. This salary 
level remains significantly behind the median salary for a FTSE 50-150 CEO. 
The salary increase applied across the business in 2015 (excluding that for the Executive Directors) was 3%. Mr Bates, our CFO, received an increase of 3% in July 
2015, which was in line with the awards made across the UK employee base which was 2%. Salary increases across the Group averaged 3%, and averaged 4% for 
non-UK employees. Both the CEO and CFO’s salaries will next be reviewed in July 2016, taking into account market pay levels and pay increases for the wider 
employee population. 
PENSION
Cash payments in lieu of employer pension contributions for 2016 will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy table set out on pages 74 to 76, and will 
be on the same basis as those made in 2015. 
ANNUAL CASH BONUS
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2016 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2015, and will be 125% of salary.
The Annual Bonus will continue to have a financial element and an element linked to personal performance. The financial element of the bonus, totalling 70% of 
maximum bonus opportunity, will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA (67% of the maximum award) and revenue (33%). As in 2015, the Committee will 
have the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives. 
2016 SHARE AWARDS:
BSA
In March 2016, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately as happened in 2015. As in previous years, the level of award will 
not be confirmed until the results for 2016 have been determined and may be lower (but not higher) than the initial award. There is no change to the vesting 
timetable: the shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2018, 2019 and 2020, subject to continued employment. With the nominal conversion of the shares at the 
outset, this more closely aligns the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period. 
It is expected that the level of award in March 2016 will be 185% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively. The performance measures will include 
the same as the financial metrics used in the 2016 annual bonus. 60% of the award will be linked to EBITDA and 30% to revenue. Additionally, there will be a new 
non-financial measure (10% of the award) linked to the management of a strategic contract. The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels and believe 
they are appropriate in the context of the Company’s ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group 
performance. The award levels are in line with market benchmark levels for FTSE 50-150 companies (excluding investment trusts) when considered as part of a 
total package. 88  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
PSA
A PSA award will be made in March 2016, and it is expected that the level of award will be 185% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates. The Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the award levels, and believe they are appropriate in the context of Company’s ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors 
will contribute personally towards overall Group performance. The award levels are in line with market benchmark levels for FTSE 50-150 companies (excluding 
investment trusts) when considered as part of a total package.
The PSA awards in 2016 will operate on the same basis as they did in 2015. Awards vest after three years based upon the same three performance conditions, 
measured over the three years to 31 December 2018. The targets are as follows:
Performance measure
Weighting  
(% of maximum award) Performance targets
3-year TSR vs. 
FTSE 50-150 (excluding 
investment trusts)
30% Below median: nil vesting
Median: 30% vesting
Upper quartile: 100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile)
3-year EBITDA 
growth pa
30% Less than 5%: nil vesting
11%: 100% vesting
(straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 11%)
Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are:
 > Global Xpress: Complete successful market entry for next generation Inmarsat-5 satellites
 > Aviation: Putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case which will support 
material revenues beyond 2017
 > L -band: Aggressively work to sustain L -band revenues despite migration of services from L -band to 
Global Xpress Ka-band, ongoing US sequestration and increasing competition
 > Strategic contract: Maximise the near and medium term income opportunities from this key 
strategic contract
Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key 
achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period.
The Committee will be considering the appropriateness of a five-year PSA horizon in a comprehensive remuneration review later in 2016, and any such changes will 
be reflected in the policy to be put to shareholders at the May 2017 AGM, to take effect from awards to be made in March 2018. 
NON-EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR  FEES
Fees paid as follows for a Non-Executive Director Amount
Basic fee £52,942
Chairman of the Audit Committee £10,000
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee £10,000
Chairman of the Nominations Committee £5,000
Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee £5,000
Committee membership (per Committee) £4,500
SID (inclusive of all additional Committee fees) £99,621
Non-Executive Chairman (inclusive of any Committee Chairmanship/member fees) £303,261
Fees will next be reviewed in July 2016 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Chairman 
also receives healthcare cover (£14.6k in 2015).
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee is a new Committee of the Board established in 2015 and details about this can be found in the Corporate governance report 
on page 67. 
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 89
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The following graph shows the Company’s performance over the last seven years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Company’s shares 
compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index (excluding investment trusts). The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our 
performance against a broad equity market index, and Inmarsat is a constituent of the index. The Committee will review the appropriateness of the comparator 
group used in future reports to shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 
31 Dec 2008
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015
Inmarsat FTSE 250 xIT index
Source: Datastream
CEO SEVEN-YEAR EARNINGS HISTORY (AUDITED)
The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the previous seven financial years is shown in the following table. The information shows single figure 
remuneration, the annual bonus outcome as a percentage of the maximum, the short-term share award and the long-term share award vesting outcomes as a 
percentage of the maximum.
For the years 2009-2011, the Chairman and Chief Executive (Andrew Sukawaty (AS)) was the same individual and received a salary for the combined role. 
Rupert Pearce (RP) became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
Year ended 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015
Single remuneration figure
(1)
AS £2.218m £3.661m £2.819m £3.850m
(2)
£2.511m
(2)
£4.427m
(2)
–
RP – – – £1.596m £1.434m £2.595m £2.605m
Annual bonus outcome 
(% of maximum)
AS 98% 100% 84% – – – –
RP – – – 91% 83% 96% 90.6%
BSP conversion 
(% of maximum monetary value)
AS 100% 100% 98% – – – –
RP – – – 100% 73% 100% 100%
PSP award vesting  
(% of maximum)
AS 100% 100% Nil – – – –
RP – – – Nil Nil 54.47% 50%
(1) Please refer to page 82 for detail of the single remuneration figure.
(2) We are only required to show the single figure remuneration for each year for the Chief Executive but as in 2012, 2013 and 2014 Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive 
Chairman, we have also included the single figure for his remuneration. 90  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION   The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group. The data is 
based on all Inmarsat UK employees, including Executive Directors (apart from the CEO) and the senior management team.
Change in remuneration from 2014 to 2015
CEO
Other UK 
employees
2015  £’000
2014 
£’000 % change % change
Salary 542.0 484.8 11.9%
(1)
2%
(4)
Taxable benefits
(2)
1.9  1.9 1.7% 4%
Short-term incentives
(3)
1,528.7 1,298.9 17.7% -30.1%
(5)
Total 2,073.0 1,785.6 16.1% -8.1%
(1) The CEO’s salaries shown relate to the average salaries paid in respect of each of the financial years. The actual salary increase the CEO received at 1 July 2015 was 9%.
(2) Taxable benefits include healthcare benefits; for the CEO it is different compared to the single remuneration figure as the amount here excludes costs for staff entertainment.
(3) Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the monetary value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award corresponding to the financial 
year just ended.
(4) The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year. 
Effective July 2015, salary increases of approximately 2% to the eligible Other UK employee workforce were awarded with 4% awarded on average to non-UK employees and 3% awarded 
on average across all employees. 
(5) The short-term incentive result for UK employees does not reflect the result for Group employees generally, which show a percentage change of 9% for global employees, excluding the 
UK workforce. The CEO’s results are more aligned with the result for the Group as a whole. The re-alignment of the CEO’s salary in 2014 and 2015 discussed previously in this Report, also 
impacts both the salary and bonus levels.
The reporting periods are 1 January to 31 December 2014 and 2015.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders 
(dividends and share buy-back) and other significant spend. Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment 
being made in the Company’s future growth. Our business model creates value that is distributed in the form of remuneration to employees, returns to shareholders 
and funds which are reinvested in the business. We have invested significantly in recent years in the business while at the same time reviewing pay levels to be 
competitive and securing good returns to shareholders through increasing capital value in the share price and increasing dividend payments. We are focused on 
putting in place a sound platform for the long-term success of the Group.
RELATIVE SPEND ON PAY (US$m)
Dividends and share buy-back (5%) Total employee pay (10%) Capital expenditure on an accruals basis (17%)
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
237.3
260.4
213.1
224.6
424.7
497.1
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 91
DIRECTORS’  SHAREHOLDING  (AUDITED)
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2015 based on a share price of 
£11.38 as at 31 December 2015:
Shares held
Shares  held  as at   31 Dec 2015
Shares  held  as at   31 Dec 2014
Unvested and
 subject to 
deferral
(1)
Unvested and
 subject to
 performance 
conditions
(2)
Shareholding
 required
(% salary)
Current
(3)
 
shareholding 
(% salary)
Requirement
 met?
Rupert Pearce 747,046 660,252 334,969 306,478 500% 2,177% Yes
Tony Bates – – 139,262 143,253 500% 342% No
(4)
Andrew Sukawaty 937,228 937,228 414,889 23,005
Simon Bax 7,000 7,000
Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327
Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500
Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073
General C. Robert Kehler (Rtd) 1,000 –
Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000
Dr Abraham Peled 10,000 10,000
Robert Ruijter – –
Dr Hamadoun Touré 10,000 –
(1) The unvested and subject to deferral column includes 50% of the 2013 PSA as performance has been tested.
(2) The unvested and subject to performance conditions column includes PSP/PSA awards made in 2014 and 2015.
(3) Includes the unvested and subject to deferral shares under the BSP/BSA.
(4) Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014. The shareholding guideline of 5x salary is to be achieved over a five to seven-year period.
Several of our Non-Executive Directors have share interests in excess of 1x salary, although there is no formal shareholding requirement. There were no changes in 
Directors’ interests from 31 December 2015 to 3 March 2016.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INMARSAT LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS AND ALL-EMPLOYEE PLANS (AUDITED)
This information is accurate as at 31 December 2015. 
INMARSAT SHARESAVE SCHEME (2012 AWARD)
Options
held at
1 January
2015
Granted 
during
the year
Exercised
during
the year
Options
held at
31  December
2015
Option price 
per share
Date from which 
exercisable
Expiry
date
Rupert Pearce 1,960 – – 1,960 £4.59 February 2016 July 2016
The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, held 1,960 options over shares under the Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave scheme at an option price of £4.59. These options are 
exercisable between 1 February 2016 and 31 July 2016. The award was made when Mr Sukawaty was an executive. 92  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
INMARSAT BONUS SHARE AWARDS
Share awards 
held at  
1 January 2015 
Awarded  
during  
the year
Reinvested 
dividends 
during
the year
(1)
Vested  
during 
the year
(2)
Share  awards  held at     31  December
2015  Award price Vesting date
Rupert  Pearce
Share award made in March 2012 21,584 – – 21,584 – £4.55 Fully vested: 2015 last vesting date 
Share award made in March 2013 68,428 – 1,117 34,212 35,333 £6.50 May 2014, March 2015 and March 2016
Share award made in March 2014 74,557 – 1,623 24,851 51,329 £6.89 March 2015, March 2016 and March 2017
Share award made in March 2015 – 75,947 – – – £8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018
Tony Bates
Share award made in March 2015 – 50,519 1,650 – 52,169 £8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018
Andrew Sukawaty
(3)
Share award made in March 2012 122,468 – – 122,468 – £4.549 Fully vested: 2015 last vesting date
Share award made in March 2013 174,107 – 2,845 87,052 89,900 £6.50 May 2014, March 2015 and March 2016
Share award made in March 2014 178,325 – 3,885 59,439 122,771 £6.89 March 2015, March 2016 and March 2017
Share award made in March 2015 – 132,061 4,333 – 136,934 £8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018
Mr Pearce and Mr Bates received conditional BSA awards in March 2015 of 111,089 and 84,337 shares in respect of the allocation made in March 2015 
respectively. The 2015 BSA share awards will be converted in full as the performance conditions have been met. 
(1) The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on 
their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
(2) On 20 March 2015, Mr Pearce sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance at a price of £9.31 per share, representing a monetary value of vested 
shares of £1,104,604. Mr Sukawaty disposed of all the vested shares, representing a monetary value of £2,504,008 at the same price.
(3)  Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director.
INMARSAT  PERFORMANCE  SHARE  AWARDS  Share awards  
held at  
1 January 2015 
Awarded  
during  
the year
Reinvested 
dividends during
the year
(1)
Vested  
during  
the year 
Lapsed
during
the year
Share  awards  held at     31  December
2015  Award price Vesting date
Rupert  Pearce  Award made in 2012
(3)
135,462 – 17,804 83,483 69,783 – £4.54 May 2015 
Award made in 2013
(4)
98,435 – – – – 98,435 £6.87 March 2016
Award made in 2014 96,954 – – – – 96,954 £6.98 March 2017
Award made in 2015 – 111,089 – – – 111,089 £9.34 March 2018
Tony Bates
Award made in 2014 58,919 – – – – 58,919 £7.64 March 2017
Award made in 2015 – 84,337 – – – 84,337 £9.34 March 2018
Andrew Sukawaty
(2)
Award made in 2012
(3)
304,663 – 40,049 187,763 156,949 – £4.54 May 2015 
Award made in 2013
(4)
201,262 – – – – 201,262 £6.87 March 2016
Award made in 2014 176,207 – – – – 176,207 £6.98 March 2017
(1) The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on 
their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
(2) Mr Sukawaty’s outstanding PSA awards (made to him when he was Executive Chairman) will vest to him on a time pro-rata basis on their respective normal vesting dates, subject to 
performance and continued employment.
(3) 54.47% of the 2012 PSP vested in 2015. 
(4) 50% of the 2013 PSP will vest in March 2016.
APPROVAL
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
SIMON BAX
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 93
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 > properly select and apply accounting policies;
 > present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 > provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 > make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole;
 > the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 > the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and 
strategy. This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS 
accounting standards.
By order of the Board
RUPERT PEARCE
Director
3 March 2016 94  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
95  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Inmarsat plc
Consolidated  financial  statements
100 Consolidated income statement
100 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
101 Consolidated balance sheet
102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
103 Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
104 Note 1. General information
104 Note 2. Principal accounting policies
108 Note 3. Financial risk management
109 Note 4. Critical accounting estimates and key judgements
110 Note 5. Segmental information
111 Note 6. Operating profit
111 Note 7. Employee benefit costs
111 Note 8. Key management compensation
112 Note 9. Net financing costs
112 Note 10. Taxation
112 Note 11. Net foreign exchange loss/(gain)
112 Note 12. Dividends
113 Note 13. Property, plant and equipment
114 Note 14. Intangible assets
115 Note 15. Investments
115 Note 16. Cash and cash equivalents
115 Note 17. Trade and other receivables
115 Note 18. Inventories
116 Note 19. Net borrowings
117 Note 20. Trade and other payables
117 Note 21. Provisions
118 Note 22. Current deferred taxation
120 Note 23. Reconciliation of net cash from operations
120 Note 24. Share capital
120 Note 25. Employee share options and awards
122 Note 26. Reserves
123 Note 27. Earnings per share
123 Note 28. Pensions and post-employment benefits
127 Note 29. Operating lease and other commitments
127 Note 30. Capital risk management
128 Note 31. Financial instruments
130 Note 32. Capital commitments
130 Note 33. Disposal
130 Note 34. Contingent liability
130 Note 35. Related party transactions
131 Note 36. Principal subsidiary undertakings
Company  financial  statements
133 Company balance sheet
134 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
135 Company cash flow statement
 
Notes to the Company financial statements
136 Note A) Principal accounting policies
136 Note B) Income statement
136 Note C) Financial instruments
136 Note D) Reconciliation of net cash from operations
137  Glossary
139  Additional  Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 95
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC
OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INMARSAT PLC
In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit 
for the year then ended;
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union;
 > the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, Group and Parent Company balance sheet, Group 
and Parent Company statement of changes in equity, Group and Parent Company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 36.  The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR   LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained 
within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Risk management section of 
the Strategic Report on page 51.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 > the Directors’ confirmation on pages 48 to 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 > the disclosures on pages 48 to 51 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 > the Directors’ statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing them and their  identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date 
of approval of the financial statements; and
 > the Director’s explanation on pages 48 to 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications 
or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. However, because not all 
future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
INDEPENDENCE
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services 
referred to in those standards. 96  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue recognition – Accuracy and occurrence   of subscription and usage-based airtime services
Subscription and usage-based airtime revenue is 
the largest revenue stream within the business. 
This revenue originates from both the I-3 and I-4 
constellations sold on a wholesale and retail basis 
along with the resale of capacity from other 
satellite operators.
A significant risk has been identified in respect of both 
the occurrence and accuracy of airtime subscription 
and usage-based airtime revenue due to the highly 
material nature of this balance and the high volume  
of transaction leading to heightened susceptibility  
to manipulation.
We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key automated and  
manual controls relating to subscription and usage-based airtime revenue across the Group’s principal 
billing systems.
We have performed substantive analytical procedures to develop an expectation of revenue based upon 
usage data and subscription numbers which are the key drivers of each airtime revenue stream. We have 
also held meetings with the Vice Presidents of each of the Group’s five market-facing business units to 
corroborate the key movements and trends in revenue within the year.
To address the risk relating to occurrence of airtime revenue streams we have reviewed the reconciliation 
between the general ledger and the billing systems.
We audited the accuracy of revenue by agreeing a sample of revenue transactions back to the customer 
contracts with the distribution partner (wholesale customers) and published tariffs (retail customers).
Revenue recognition – Capacity contracts with   take or pay features
A number of the Group’s satellite capacity contracts 
with customers have a ‘take or pay’ feature. The 
accounting policy for such agreements is set out in 
note 2 of the financial statements. There is a risk that 
revenue associated with take or pay arrangements 
could be recorded in an incorrect period, leading to  
a material error within the financial statements.
This risk is especially pertinent due to the material 
nature of these contracts, their non-standard terms, 
and the fact that any new contracts entered into may 
not necessarily run concurrently with calendar years.
 
We have obtained and reviewed the underlying contracts for all material ‘take or pay’ agreements. We have 
considered the terms of these contracts to evaluate whether the revenue recognised is in accordance with 
IAS 18 and other accounting standards and guidance. 
We have corroborated our understanding of the existence of such take or pay agreements through 
meeting with senior management both within finance and the market-facing business units to understand 
the commercial developments during the financial year. 
Accounting for the LightSquared Cooperation   Agreement
The Group continues to hold a material balance of 
$208.8m deferred revenue in respect of the 
LightSquared Cooperation Agreement. The Group’s 
accounting policy in respect of this agreement is 
summarised in note 4c to the financial statements. 
We consider that risks exist in relation to revenue 
and cost recognition for the agreement, as the 
accounting policy is reliant on management 
judgement, and there is a high degree  
of uncertainty surrounding the future of the 
commercial relationship with LightSquared.
Further, there is a cut-off risk in respect of the  
quarterly payments receivable from LightSquared.  
As discussed in note 4c to the financial statements, 
Inmarsat has accrued for the payment of $17.9m due 
on 31 December 2015.
We have met with senior management throughout the year to corroborate our understanding of the 
commercial developments with LightSquared and to understand any potential impact this may have on 
accounting for the agreement, as well as any technical developments which may impact the quantum of 
future compensation costs that the Group may incur. 
We have tested the design and implementation of controls in respect of the recognition of previously 
deferred revenue and accounting for the payments received this year from LightSquared.
We have assessed the level of uncertainty regarding the possible form of the cooperation agreement in the 
future, and the impact this has on the deferred revenue on the balance sheet.
We have performed substantive testing to confirm the cash received from LightSquared during the year, 
and have further considered whether management’s recognition of these amounts on an accruals basis 
is appropriate.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 97
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Accounting for major capital projects
The Group capitalises significant internal labour  
costs, external costs and qualifying borrowing  
costs in respect of major capital projects, most  
notably relating to satellite programmes and 
associated infrastructure such as the Global Xpress 
programme and European Aviation Network.
There is a risk in respect of valuation and allocation  
of assets, that costs which do not meet the criteria  
for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38  
and IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded on the 
balance sheet rather than expensed or that costs 
continue to be held on the balance sheet despite no 
longer meeting the relevant capitalisation criteria.  
The Group’s policy on the capitalisation of assets is 
included in note 2 to the financial statements.
Included in note 13 to the financial statements is 
property, plant and equipment with a net book value  
of $2,860m, of which $2,164m relates to space 
segment assets, and $604m relates to assets in the 
course of construction.
Included in note 14 to the financial statements are 
intangible assets with a net book value of $772m. 
As disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements, 
capitalised borrowing costs totalled $35m in the year.
We have tested the design and implementation of controls in respect of the processes and procedures 
which govern the capitalisation of development costs. 
We have met the project leaders for the most financially significant capital projects, which account for 78% 
of current year capital expenditure, to corroborate the project status, feasibility of completion, and 
performance against budget, including investigating any derivations from budget.
Furthermore, we have carried out substantive testing in relation to each element of capitalised costs 
including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the capitalised costs, understanding the nature of 
the costs capitalised and considering whether they are consistent with the originally approved budget. 
In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations, verified the inputs to the calculation, 
including testing a sample of cash payments, tested the mechanical accuracy of the model, and reviewed the 
model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised.
Implementation of a new global ERP
During the year the Group implemented one instance 
of their accounting software system in all locations 
with the exception of certain parts of the Government 
and Enterprise business units. This represents over  
91% of the Group’s revenues.
There is a risk that the data that has been migrated to 
the new global instance of the accounting software 
system was not accurate or complete. 
We reviewed management’s project plan and the appropriateness of governance controls around the 
identification of data to be moved across during the roll-out of the software, including the testing of 
appropriate approvals.
We reviewed the process of initial mapping to ensure the existing system configuration, data mapping, 
timelines, periods, and sub-ledger configurations underlying the existing data were understood.
We tested the design and implementation of controls to ensure the data quality and appropriateness, 
including whether the data moved across to the new instance of the software had received appropriately 
senior reviews and approval.
We performed substantive testing on the data of ledgers and sub-ledgers before and after the 
implementation to ensure their completeness and accuracy, including performing reconciliations between 
the two systems. 
We used system interrogation software called eQSmart to assess and monitor the levels of system security, 
implemented authorisations and system enforced segregation of duties in the new global instance of 
accounting software.
Last year our report included four other risks which are not included in our report this year:
 > change in segmental reporting (this change was completed last year);
 > the assessment of the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets (our work last year was focused on the re-designation of cash-generating units which 
has not occurred this year);
 > accounting for the acquisition of Globe Wireless LLC (the acquisition was completed last year); and
 > working capital provisions (the policy was new last year and is now well established).
Included for the first time this year, are the following risks:
 > implementation of a new global ERP (this occurred during the year);
 > revenue recognition – capacity contracts with take or pay features (these contracts can be material in nature and involve management judgement).
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 69.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. 98  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC
CONTINUED
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality 
both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of 
our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $12.4m (2014: $11.2m). This was 
calculated before 31 December 2015 and was based on 5% of forecast adjusted 
profit before tax (2014: 5%), which was in line with actual performance, and 
therefore resulted in 5% of actual adjusted profit before tax (2014: 5%), and less 
than 1% (2014: less than 1%) of equity. Pre-tax profit has been chosen as the 
basis for determining materiality as we determine this to be the most relevant 
measure to users of the financial statements. This has been adjusted to remove 
the impact of volatility arising from the revenue and costs associated with the 
LightSquared Cooperation Agreement (discussed in note 4c to the financial 
statements). The basis for determining materiality has not changed since 
last year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all 
audit differences in excess of $250,000 (2014: $225,000), as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and 
its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of 
material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we 
focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations, 
being London, United Kingdom; St John’s, Canada; Palm Bay, United States; and 
Reston, United States. 
Following the Group finance transformation, and the move on to one global 
instance of the Group’s accounting software system, we changed our audit 
approach to reflect the fact that the composition of components has changed. 
With the exception of one specific part of the US Government business, where 
we used a component audit team, we performed the Group audit with one 
integrated team, led from London. The supervision of the audit team included 
the London team visiting the members of the audit team located in St John’s 
and Palm Bay.
We determined there to be three components in the Group, being the core 
Inmarsat business unit headquartered in London, the US Government retail 
business in Reston, USA and a separate element of the Enterprise business in 
Sydney, Australia (TC Communications). These two businesses in Reston and 
Sydney were determined to be separate components as they had a separate 
financial control environment during the year. The core Inmarsat and US 
Government components were subject to a full audit scope, whilst limited scope 
procedures were performed on TC Communications due to the financial 
insignificance of this component. 
The components subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business 
units and account for 99.7% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s net assets, 99.3% 
(2014: 100%) of the Group’s revenue and 99.4% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s 
profit before tax. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for 
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified 
above. Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of 
materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group 
materiality and ranged from $5m to $11.1m (2014: $4.5m to $9.0m). 
For the first time the scope of our audit also included consideration of the 
Group’s longer-term viability statement, which was prepared in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. Our conclusions in respect of this work are 
set out above.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial 
information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of 
specified account balances.
The Group audit team ensured that a senior member of the Group audit team 
visited the US Government component in the current year. For this component 
we involved the component audit partner and manager in our team briefing, 
discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings 
from their work.
 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE   COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT     BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
 > we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our 
audit; or
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 > the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS’  REMUNERATION
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion 
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 99
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 > otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the 
Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  We 
also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). 
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and 
systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This Report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit.  If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
STEPHEN GRIGGS FCA   Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
3 March 2016 100  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Revenues 1,274.1 1,285.9
Employee benefit costs 7 (260.4) (237.3)
Network and satellite operations costs (180.0) (205.7)
Other operating costs (147.2) (174.1)
Own work capitalised 39.5 32.2
Total net operating costs (548.1) (584.9)
EBITDA 726.0 701.0
Depreciation and amortisation 6 (311.2) (291.8)
Gain/(loss) on disposal of assets 9.3 (1.2)
Impairment loss 6 (0.2) (1.3)
Share of profit of associates 15 2.5 2.6
Operating  profit 426.4 409.3
Financing income 9 1.8 8.1
Financing cost 9 (90.2) (75.1)
Net financing costs 9 (88.4) (67.0)
Profit before tax 338.0 342.3
Taxation charge 10 (56.0) (1.2)
Profit for the year 282.0 341.1
Attributable to:
Equity  holders 281.4 340.5
Non-controlling  interest 0.6 0.6
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the company (expressed in $ per share)
– Basic 27 0.63 0.76
– Diluted 27 0.62 0.69
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Profit for the year 282.0 341.1
Other  comprehensive  income/(loss)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:
 Gain on measurement of available-for-sale financial asset – 9.4
 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset (9.4) –
 Foreign exchange translation differences (0.7) (0.6)
 Net gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges 26 2.9 (12.7)
 Tax credited directly to equity 10 1.0 1.1
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:
 Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 28 3.0 3.4
 Tax charged directly to equity 10 (0.6) (0.6)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax (3.8) –
Total comprehensive income, net of tax   278.2 341.1
Attributable to:
Equity  holders 277.6 340.5
Non-controlling  interest 0.6 0.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 101
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Assets
Non-current  assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 2,860.2 2,649.4
Intangible assets 14 772.0 799.6
Investments 15 12.1 10.8
Other receivables 17 23.4 24.4
Deferred tax assets 22 44.6 26.7
3,712.3 3,510.9
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 16 177.3 204.4
Trade and other receivables 17 324.7 305.4
Inventories 18 25.0 28.4
Current tax assets 22 3.8 8.5
Derivative financial instruments 31 – 1.4
Restricted cash 16 3.0 –
Assets held for sale 33 – 32.9
533.8 581.0
Total assets 4,246.1 4,091.9
Liabilities
Current  liabilities
Borrowings 19 129.4 118.1
Trade and other payables 20 464.9 474.9
Provisions 21 1.8 3.4
Current tax liabilities 22 123.2 81.3
Derivative financial instruments 31 0.3 5.0
719.6 682.7
Non-current  liabilities
Borrowings 19 2,033.7 1,987.0
Other payables 20 42.9 45.6
Provisions 21 2.5 7.2
Deferred tax liabilities 22 197.5 186.3
2,276.6 2,226.1
Total  liabilities 2,996.2 2,908.8
Net assets 1,249.9 1,183.1
Shareholders’  equity
Ordinary shares 24 0.3 0.3
Share premium 687.6 687.6
Equity reserve 56.9 56.9
Other reserves 71.8 66.7
Retained earnings 432.7 371.1
Equity attributable to shareholders 1,249.3 1,182.6
Non-controlling  interest 0.6 0.5
Total equity 1,249.9 1,183.1
The consolidated financial statements of the Group on pages 100 to 132 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
RUPERT PEARCE        TONY BATES
Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer 102  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions)
Ordinary 
share
capital
Share
premium
account
Equity
reserve
Share
option
reserve
Cash flow 
hedge
reserve
(1)
Revaluation
reserve
Currency
reserve
Other
reserve
(2)
Retained
earnings
Non-
controlling
interest Total
Balance at 
1 January 2014 0.3 687.4 56.9 61.5 8.6 0.6 0.2 (8.0) 240.0 0.3 1,047.8
Share options charge – – – 1.0 – – – 5.6 0.6 – 7.2
Issue of share capital – 0.2 – – – – – – – – 0.2
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (212.8) (0.3) (213.1)
Transfer to liabilities 
directly associated with 
assets held for sale – – – – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Comprehensive income:
 Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 340.5 0.6 341.1
  Other comprehensive 
loss – before tax – – – – (12.7) 9.4 (0.6) – 3.4 – (0.5)
  Other comprehensive 
loss – tax – – – – 2.5 (1.4) – – (0.6) – 0.5
Balance at   31 December 2014 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 (1.6) 8.6 (0.4) (2.4) 371.1 0.5 1,183.1
Share options charge – – – 11.3 – – – – 1.9 13.2
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (224.1) (0.5) (224.6)
Comprehensive income:
 Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 281.4 0.6 282.0
  Other comprehensive 
loss – before tax – – – – 2.9 (9.4) (0.7) – 3.0 – (4.2)
  Other comprehensive 
loss – tax – – – – (0.4) 1.4 – – (0.6) – 0.4
Balance at   31 December 2015 0.3 687.6 56.9 73.8 0.9 0.6 (1.1) (2.4) 432.7 0.6 1,249.9
(1) Note 26.
(2) The ‘other reserve’ relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 103
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 717.0 653.4
Interest received 1.4 0.9
Tax paid (12.9) (9.5)
Net cash from operating activities 705.5 644.8
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (433.5) (345.9)
Additions to capitalised development costs and other intangibles (20.8) (29.0)
Own work capitalised (39.3) (30.8)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments – (46.2)
Proceeds on disposal of assets 33 32.9 27.5
Net cash used in investing activities (460.7) (424.4)
Cash flow from financing activities
Dividends paid (223.7) (212.6)
Repayment of EIB Facility 19 (44.0) (44.1)
Drawdown of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 136.7 106.9
Repayment of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 (59.5) (13.4)
Redemption of Senior Notes due 2017 – (882.8)
Gross issuance proceeds of Senior Notes due 2022 – 991.9
Interest paid (79.5) (89.0)
Arrangement costs of financing (6.9) (13.8)
Net proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares – 0.2
Other financing activities 1.7 0.3
Net cash used in financing activities (275.2) (156.4)
Foreign exchange adjustment 0.7 (0.4)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29.7) 63.6
Cash and cash equivalents
At the beginning of the year 204.4 140.8
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29.7) 63.6
At the end of the year 174.7 204.4
Comprising:
Cash at bank and in hand 16 53.6 40.7
Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 16 123.7 163.7
Bank overdrafts 19 (2.6) –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 174.7 204.4 104  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Inmarsat plc (the ‘Company’ or, together with its subsidiaries, the ‘Group’) is a 
company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and 
Wales. The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, 
United Kingdom. 
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial 
statements are set out below. These policies have been applied consistently to 
all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
BASIS OF PREPARATION
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS 
Regulation. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention except for certain financial instruments that have been 
measured at fair value, as described later in these accounting policies.
GOING  CONCERN
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash flow 
generation and is compliant with all banking covenants. Because of this and the 
relatively stable overall economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group 
is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully. After considering 
current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further discussion of the Group’s business activities, together with factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairman’s review, the Chief 
Executive’s review, the Financial review and the viability statement on 
pages 1 to 51. 
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, the 
functional currency of the Company and most of the Group’s subsidiaries. 
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with 
IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenue 
and expenses during the year. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual 
results ultimately may differ from these estimates. Further discussion on these 
estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 4. 
ACCOUNTING  POLICY  CHANGES
New and amended accounting standards adopted by the Group
There are no new IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for this 
financial year that have had a material impact on the Group. 
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are   not yet effective and have not been early adopted
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ will be effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU. 
The standard sets out the requirements for recognising revenue form 
contracts with customers, and will supersede the current revenue recognition 
guidance including IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and the 
related interpretations. 
IFRS 15 will require the Group to apportion revenue earned from contracts to 
each deliverable that qualifies as a ‘performance obligation’. The transaction 
price receivable from customers must be allocated to each performance 
obligation on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step 
model. The Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard on the 
financial statements. 
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2019, subject to endorsement by the EU. The standard sets out requirements 
for recognising assets and liabilities in respect of leases, and will supersede the 
existing accounting guidance in IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and the related interpretations.
IFRS 16 will require the Group, where it is the lessee, to recognise assets and 
liabilities for most leases, however there is little change to IAS 17 where the 
Group is the lessor. The Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard 
on the financial statements.  
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ will be effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU. The standard will impact the 
classification and measurement of financial instruments and will supersede IAS 
39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. While the Group has 
not finalised its assessment of this standard, it does not expect the changes to 
have a material impact on the financial statements. 
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are not yet effective that 
would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
BASIS  OF  CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the 
Company and all its subsidiaries, and incorporate the share of the results of 
associates using the equity method of accounting. 
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the 
period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of 
establishment or acquisition of control. The results of subsidiary undertakings 
disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal. Where 
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to 
bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All 
transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary 
undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries which 
consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original business 
combination and the non-controlling interests’ share of changes in equity 
since the date of the combination, are not material to the Group’s 
financial statements.
BUSINESS  COMBINATIONS
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. 
When the Group acquires a business, it identifies the assets and liabilities of 
the acquiree at the date of acquisition and measures them at fair value. Only 
separately identifiable intangible assets are recognised. Any assets or disposal 
groups held for sale at the acquisition date are measured at fair value less costs 
to sell. 
Consideration is the fair value at the acquisition date of the assets transferred 
and liabilities incurred in acquiring the business and includes the fair value of 
any contingent consideration. Changes in fair value of contingent 
consideration after the acquisition date are recognised in the income 
statement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in 
operating costs.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost as the difference between the fair value of 
the consideration for the acquisition and fair value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired, including any intangible assets other than goodwill. If the assessment 
of goodwill results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the 
aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in the income 
statement. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) that 
are expected to benefit from the business combination, irrespective of whether 
other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 105
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The functional currency of the Company and most of the Group’s subsidiaries 
and the presentation currency of the Group is US Dollar, as the majority of 
operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pound Sterling for 2015 for the Group’s 
Sterling operating expenditures was US$1.59/£1.00 (2014: US$1.54/£1.00).
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using 
the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line 
which most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transactions.
REVENUE
Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation 
charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the 
services are provided. Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite 
communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned 
balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to 
prepaid contracts. Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until 
such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires. The Group 
also enters into minimum spend contracts with customers, known as 
‘take-or-pay’ contracts, whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum 
amount of mobile satellite communications services over a fixed period. 
Any unused portion of the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts 
(‘breakage’) is recognised in revenue in line with service provision when 
reasonable assurance as to the breakage amount exists, or otherwise when 
the contract expires. Mobile satellite communications services lease 
revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract 
concerned, which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another 
systematic basis is deemed more appropriate. 
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, 
services contracts, other communications services and income from the sale 
of terminals and other communication equipment. Revenue from spectrum 
coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion or 
straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement. 
Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided. 
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when 
the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable 
arrangements. Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units 
of accounting provided: 1) the deliverable has a stand-alone value to the 
customer if it is sold separately, and 2) the fair value of the item can be 
objectively and reliably determined. Consideration for these items is measured 
and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the 
relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
FINANCING  INCOME  AND  FINANCING  COST
Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and the net 
interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability. 
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings including the Senior 
Notes and Convertible Bonds, accretion of the liability component of the 
Convertible Bonds, amortisation of deferred financing costs and the unwind of 
the discount on deferred satellite liabilities. 
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables, including prepaid and accrued income, are initially 
recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated 
uncollectable amounts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent, measured at fair value, comprises cash balances, 
deposits held on call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid investments 
with maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown as current 
liabilities within borrowings on the balance sheet. 
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Equity  instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the 
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost. 
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings
Borrowings, comprising interest-bearing bank loans, compound instruments 
such as convertible bonds and overdrafts, are initially recorded at fair value 
which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct transaction and 
arrangement costs. They are subsequently held at amortised cost. Finance 
charges related to borrowings, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for using the effective 
interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument. 
Amortisation of direct transaction costs is charged to the income statement 
over the term of the borrowing. 
The Group holds convertible bonds which comprise both a liability and an 
equity component. They are accounted for and presented separately using 
split accounting according to the substance of the contractual arrangement. 
The equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from 
the fair value of the instrument as a whole, the amount separately determined 
for the liability component. The equity component remains unchanged 
throughout the life of the option once its value is determined at issuance. 
The liability component is initially recognised at the present value of the capital 
and interest payments using a discount rate for a similar instrument with the 
same terms and conditions but without the convertibility option. After initial 
recognition, it is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method with an interest expense recognised in the income statement and a 
cash outflow resulting from coupon payments to bond holders. The split 
between the equity and liability components is made at issuance and not 
revalued for subsequent changes in market interest rates, share prices, or other 
event that changes the likelihood that the conversion option will be exercised. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has the 
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months 
after the balance sheet date. 
Derivative  financial  instruments
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with its 
treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date the 
derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value. 
The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised in the income statement 
except where the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument.  
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated 
and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the 
income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or 
loss. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not hedge 
accounted are recognised immediately in the income statement.  106  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
2. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  continued
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised 
in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group uses forward currency contracts as hedges of its exposure to foreign 
currency risk in forecast transactions and firm commitments. The ineffective 
portion is recognised in finance costs.
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit 
or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the 
hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast 
sale occurs. When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or 
non-financial liability, the amounts recognised as other comprehensive 
income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial 
asset or liability.
EMPLOYEE  BENEFITS
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, 
bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the 
associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination benefits are payable whenever an employee’s employment is 
terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group 
recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either 
terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination 
benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans and 
post-employment benefits in respect of employees. The Group’s net 
obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment 
benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the 
current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The calculations are 
performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. 
Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income 
statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees. 
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that 
will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based 
vesting conditions.
CURRENT TAX
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit 
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, if the 
deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not 
accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date 
and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is 
realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible 
differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
Research expenditure is expensed when incurred. Development expenditure is 
expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation. Development 
costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial 
viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured 
reliably. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation is recorded in the 
income statement. 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Space segment assets
Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other 
associated costs, including ground infrastructure. Expenditure charged to 
space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts 
accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, 
external consultancy costs and direct internal costs. Internal costs, comprising 
primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to 
the construction of an asset. Progress payments are determined on milestones 
achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices. Deferred 
satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments 
dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in 
space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational. The associated 
liability is stated at its net present value and included within borrowings. These 
space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the 
date they become operational and are placed into service. 
Assets in the course of construction
These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over 
the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed 
into service. No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
Capitalised borrowing costs
The Group incurs borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale and capitalises these 
borrowing costs as part of the cost of the asset. Capitalisation commences 
when the Group begins to incur the borrowing costs and related expenditures 
for the asset, and when it undertakes the activities that are necessary to 
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Capitalisation of borrowing costs 
lease when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for 
its intended use or sale are complete. 
Other fixed assets
Other fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 107
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, 
if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected 
useful lives of the assets concerned. The Group selects its depreciation rates 
and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any 
changes in circumstances. When setting useful economic lives, the principal 
factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological 
developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the 
intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Derecognition
A fixed asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefit 
is expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of 
the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement. 
GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that 
the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. 
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a 
systematic basis over the periods that the related costs are expensed. When 
the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from the cost of the relevant asset 
to arrive at the carrying amount. The grant is therefore recognised as income 
over the life of the asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
INTANGIBLE  ASSETS
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal 
development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and 
licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at 
cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair 
value at the date of acquisition. After initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. 
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are 
not capitalised and the related expenditure is recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which the expenditure is incurred. 
Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are 
capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been demonstrated 
as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed 
each financial year. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed 
annually for impairment.
IMPAIRMENT  REVIEWS
All assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised but is 
tested annually for impairment at 31 December each year. Indicators of 
impairment may include changes in technology and business performance. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 
levels for which there are separately identifiable and independent cash flows, 
these are known as cash-generating units. An impairment loss is recognised in 
the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. 
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there 
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had 
been recognised. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. 
LEASES
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are 
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee. Rentals 
receivables under operating leases and income generated from terminal leases 
are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE
When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be 
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing usage, 
they are classified as held for sale. This condition is regarded as met only when 
the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition. Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together 
as a group in a single transaction. They are recognised as held for sale at the 
reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on 
the balance sheet. Any amortisation or depreciation ceases when an asset is 
classified as held for sale. Measurement differences arising between the 
carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment 
charges and separately disclosed.
Available-for-sale financial assets classified as held for sale are remeasured to 
fair value with the resulting gains or losses recorded through the revaluation 
reserve. These amounts are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss at the 
time of sale.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined by the weighted average 
cost method) and net realisable value. Allowances for obsolescence are 
recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that 
inventory is obsolete.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or 
constructive) as a result of a past event. It is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to 
a provision is presented in the income statement.
Asset  retirement  obligations
The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible 
property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the 
period in which the liability is incurred. Upon initial recognition of a liability for 
an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added 
to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to 
income over the remaining useful life of the asset. Following the initial 
recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the 
liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of 
allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected in 
operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of 
undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation. 108  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS
The Group’s operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of 
financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign 
currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates. The 
Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse 
effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange 
contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the impact of 
fluctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of floating rate long-
term borrowings.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a subcommittee, the Treasury Review 
Committee, the responsibility for setting the financial risk management policies 
applied by the Group. The policies are implemented by the treasury 
department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to 
enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may 
be taken. The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that 
sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate 
risk and credit risk (see note 31). The Group does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
(A) MARKET RISK
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar. The vast majority of 
the Group’s long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the majority 
of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the majority of capital expenditure is 
denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated 
with fluctuating foreign currency rates of exchange. However, approximately 
22% (2014: 24%) of the Group’s operating costs are denominated in Pounds 
Sterling. The Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 2% and 
43% of revenue and expenditure, respectively, being denominated in currencies 
other than the US Dollar. The Group’s exposures therefore need to be carefully 
managed to avoid variability in future cash flows and earnings caused by 
volatile foreign exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2015 it is estimated that:
 > a hypothetical 1% inflation of the hedged US Dollar/Sterling exchange rate 
(US$1.47/£1.00 to US$1.49/£1.00) would have increased the 2015 profit 
before tax by approximately $0.1m (2014: $1.1m);
 > a hypothetical 1% deflation in the US Dollar/Sterling and a 1% deflation in the 
US Dollar/Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2015 would have 
decreased equity by $0.1m and $nil, respectively (2014: $1.0m and $0.1m, 
respectively), primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative 
instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis 
upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
(ii) Price risk
The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or 
commodity price risk.
(B) INTEREST RATE RISK
Given the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets (except cash and 
cash equivalents and non-current other receivables), income and operating 
cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. 
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at 
variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The EIB Facility is 
at a variable rate whilst the Senior Notes due 2022, the Convertible Bonds and 
the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are at fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2015, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with 
all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit after tax for the year would 
have been impacted by $0.9m (2014: $0.3m). This is primarily due to the 
Group’s exposure to movements on interest rates on its variable rate 
borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. The sensitivity analysis has been 
determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and 
non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate 
liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the liability outstanding at each 
balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. Management believes 
that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess 
expected changes in interest rates.
(C) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual 
obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. Financial instruments that 
potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash 
and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other 
receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments. The credit 
risk on liquid funds (cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits) and 
derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly 
rated financial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is:
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 16 177.3 204.4
Trade receivables, other receivables 
and accrued income 31 310.8 242.1
Derivative financial instruments 31 – 1.4
Total credit risk 488.1 447.9
The Group’s average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2015 
(excluding the impact of LightSquared) was approximately 61 days (as at 
31 December 2014: 66 days). At 31 December 2015, $156.2m (2014: $174.5m) 
of trade receivables were not yet due for payment. No interest is charged on 
trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment. 
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of 
the individual agreements. 
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended 
to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party 
collection processes for overdue accounts. The Group maintains provisions for 
potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis. The provision for 
uncollectible trade receivables has decreased to $16.1m as at 31 December 
2015 (2014: $18.4m).
For 2015, one (2014: one) distribution partner comprised approximately 
11.4% (2014: 12.2%) of the Group’s total revenues. This same customer 
comprised 16.4% (2014: 20.3%) of the Group’s trade receivables balance as at 
31 December 2014. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the 
Group’s revenue for 2015 or 2014, or for 10% of the Group’s accounts 
receivable as at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
The ageing profile of past due but not impaired trade receivables is:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Between 1 and 30 days overdue 30.2 40.2
Between 31 and 120 days overdue 9.0 16.4
Over 120 days overdue 1.4 0.2
As at 31 December 40.6 56.8
(D) LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations 
and financial liabilities. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining 
sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through 
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets 
and liabilities.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 109
The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is:
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 16 177.3 204.4
Available but undrawn borrowing 
facilities
(1)
19 578.9 990.3
Total  available  liquidity 756.2 1,194.7
(1) Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facilities (see note 19).
The Directors believe the Group’s liquidity position is more than sufficient to 
meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND KEY JUDGEMENTS
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue 
and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates. The more significant estimates are discussed below:
(A) IMPAIRMENT REVIEW
Impairment reviews of goodwill are performed at the level of the Group’s 
cash-generating units (CGUs). For the Group, these are considered to be the 
Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, US Government and Global Government 
business units. The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined 
based on value in use calculations. The key assumptions used by management 
in these calculations are the cash flow projections, long-term growth rates and 
discount rates for each CGU. 
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were 
as follows:
($ in millions)
Allocated 
goodwill
Pre-tax
discount rate
Long-term 
growth rate
Maritime 215.5 8.9% 2.0%
Enterprise 54.8 8.9% 2.0%
Aviation 46.4 8.9% 2.0%
US Government 50.6 8.9% 2.0%
Global Government 54.8 8.9% 2.0%
Total Group 422.1
Cash flow projections
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is 
determined using cash flow projections derived from the most recent financial 
budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period. 
The short and medium-term cash flows reflect management’s expectations of 
future outcomes taking into account past experience, adjusted for anticipated 
growth, from both existing and new and taking into consideration our 
assessment of the potential impact of external economic factors. 
Long-term growth rates
A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into 
perpetuity. The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry 
growth rates and management’s conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount  rates
The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with 
the CGUs. The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was 
consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to 
economic and competitive conditions.
(B) INCOME TAX
The calculation of the Group’s current and deferred tax balances, including 
potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and 
judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally 
determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, 
as appropriate, through a formal legal process. Issues can, and often do, take a 
number of years to resolve. The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived 
from the Group’s best estimation and judgement. However, the inherent 
uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could 
differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Group’s results 
and cash flows. In addition, a contingent liability has been disclosed for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 in respect of arrangements which were entered into in 
prior periods (see note 34).
(C) REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION   AGREEMENT
In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra (Canada) Inc. and 
LightSquared Inc. (together LightSquared
(1)
) entered into a Cooperation 
Agreement for the efficient use of L -band spectrum over North America. The 
Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable 
and support the deployment of an ATC network by LightSquared in North 
America. To date total cash payments of $648.8m have been received under 
the Cooperation Agreement, including $70.8m in 2015 (2014: $31.6m). The 
Group has, thus far, recognised $457.8m of revenue and $23.4m of operating 
costs under all phases of the agreement. For the year ended 31 December 
2015, the Group recognised $88.6m of revenue with no associated operating 
costs, in respect of all phases (year ended 31 December 2014: $75.4m and 
$0.2m, respectively).
In May 2012, LightSquared filed for a reorganisation under Chapter 11 of the 
US Bankruptcy Code. For the majority of 2015, payments from LightSquared 
were subject to significant uncertainty and so Inmarsat only recognised 
revenue from LightSquared when it was received in cash. In December 2015 
LightSquared emerged from bankruptcy protection and raised new capital so 
from the fourth quarter Inmarsat has returned to accruals-based accounting 
for recognition of revenue in relation to Phase 2 of the Cooperation 
Agreement. This has resulted in the recognition of a further $17.9m of revenue 
and EBITDA in the fourth quarter and in the full year 2015. This accrued revenue 
was received from LightSquared in January 2016.
At 31 December 2015, deferred income remaining in respect of Phase 1 of the 
Cooperation Agreement of $208.8m was recorded on the balance sheet. 
Although the cash has been received, the timing of the recognition of this 
deferred income, together with any related future costs and taxes, is 
dependent upon a number of factors that continue to be uncertain. The key 
area of uncertainty relates to the amount of spectrum LightSquared will 
choose to lease from Inmarsat under the current Cooperation Agreement, a 
decision is expected by the end of March 2016. That in turn will determine the 
revenue that will result for Inmarsat and the costs and timing of the resulting 
spectrum reorganisation. 
(D) CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED   BORROWING  COSTS
The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and 
associated borrowings costs are:
 > whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IAS have been met;
 > whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of 
costs should cease and depreciation should commence; and
 > whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result 
capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
(1) On 11 February 2016 LightSquared announced a name change to Ligado Networks LLC. 
We continue to refer to the company as LightSquared in these results, reflecting the 
position throughout 2015. 110  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
5. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources and 
assess the performance of the Group. 
The Group’s operating segments are aligned to five market-facing business units, being: 
 > Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services; 
 > Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services; 
 > Aviation, focusing on commercial aviation services;
 > US Government, focusing on US civil and military government services; and
 > Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services.
Details of these business units are given on pages 28 to 43. 
These five business units are supported by ‘Central Services’ which include satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and 
any income that is not directly attributable to a business unit. The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global Government operating segments into 
one reporting segment as the segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS. Therefore, the Group’s reportable segments are Maritime, Government, 
Enterprise, Aviation and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2. Segment results are assessed at the 
EBITDA level without the allocation of central costs, depreciation, net financing costs and taxation.
SEGMENT RESULTS
2015
($ in millions) Maritime Government Enterprise
(1)
Aviation Central Services
(2)
Total
Revenue
MSS and other 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 19.4 1,185.5
LightSquared – – – – 88.6 88.6
Total revenue 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 108.0 1,274.1
Net operating costs (133.8) (95.6) (46.4) (23.1) (249.2) (548.1)
EBITDA 459.4 191.0 113.1 103.7 (141.2) 726.0
Depreciation and amortisation – – – – (311.2) (311.2)
Impairment losses – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Other – – – – 11.8 11.8
Operating  profit 459.4 191.0 113.1 103.7 (440.8) 426.4
Net financing cost – – – – – (88.4)
Profit before tax – – – – – 338.0
Taxation – – – – – (56.0)
Profit for the year – – – – – 282.0
Capital  expenditure
(3)
31.0 1.5 0.4 70.7 393.5 497.1
(1) Enterprise excludes the disposals made during the first half of 2015.
(2) Central services include revenue from LightSquared of $88.6m (2014: $75.4m).
(3) Capital expenditure is stated using the accruals basis.
2014
($ in millions) Maritime
(1)
Government Enterprise Aviation Central Services Total
Revenue
MSS and other 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 27.2 1,210.5
LightSquared – – – – 75.4 75.4
Total revenue 595.6 319.9 166.7 101.1 102.6 1,285.9
Net operating costs (145.2) (103.5) (64.6) (13.9) (257.7) (584.9)
EBITDA 450.4 216.4 102.1 87.2 (155.1) 701.0
Depreciation and amortisation – – – – (291.8) (291.8)
Impairment losses – – – – (1.3) (1.3)
Other – – – – 1.4 1.4
Operating  profit 450.4 216.4 102.1 87.2 (446.8) 409.3
Net financing costs (67.0)
Profit before tax 342.3
Taxation (1.2)
Profit for the year 341.1
Capital  expenditure 35.3 5.6 3.3 48.3 332.2 424.7
(1) Includes Globe Wireless from 1 January 2014.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 111
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHY
The Group’s operations are located in the geographical regions listed below. 
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the 
customer. For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives 
the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of 
the customer for whom the service is provided. Assets and capital expenditure 
are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2015 2014
($ in millions) Revenue
Non-current   segment
assets Revenue
Non-current 
 segment
assets
United Kingdom 104.0 795.0 82.4 799.2
Rest of Europe 319.0 271.8 476.9 619.0
North America 541.8 695.5 391.2 755.8
Asia and Pacific 254.9 60.4 282.7 68.9
Rest of the world 54.4 0.1 52.7 0.1
Unallocated
(1)
– 1,889.5 – 1,267.9
1,274.1 3,712.3 1,285.9 3,510.9
(1)  Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
6. OPERATING PROFIT   Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group. Network and 
satellite operation costs comprise costs to third parties for network service 
contracts, operating lease rentals and services. A breakdown of employee 
benefit costs is given in note 7.
Operating profit is stated after charging the following items:
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment 13 239.5 220.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 71.7 71.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 – 0.4
Impairment of intangible assets 14 0.4 0.3
(Gain)/impairment of non-current 
other receivables (0.2) 0.6
Operating lease rentals:
 Land and buildings 15.4 20.3
 Services equipment, fixtures and fittings – 1.7
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 31.9 46.9
Write downs of inventories recognised as 
an expense 18 3.9 12.3
Research and development costs expensed 13.6 20.0
Remuneration payable to the Group’s auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates 
in the year is analysed below:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Audit fees:
 Annual audit of the Company 0.2 0.2
 Annual audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 1.2
Total audit fees   1.1 1.4
 Audit-related assurance services
(1)
0.1 0.2
Total audit and audit-related fees 1.2 1.6
 Tax advisory services 0.6 0.9
 Other services
(2)
– 0.1
Total non-audit fees 0.6 1.0
Total auditor’s remuneration 1.8 2.6
(1) Fees paid for audit-related assurance services refer to the half year and quarterly reviews 
of the Group’s interim condensed consolidated financial statements. 
(2) Other services in 2014 related to a corporate financing transaction.
7. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Wages and salaries 215.8 200.8
Social security costs 19.0 16.5
Share options charge (including employers’ 
national insurance contribution) 14.2 11.3
Defined contribution pension plan costs 8.2 7.0
Defined benefit pension plan costs
(1)
28 3.1 1.4
Post-employment benefits costs
(1)
28 0.1 0.3
Total employee benefit costs 260.4 237.3
(1) Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs include the service 
cost and gain on curtailment in 2015 (see note 28).
EMPLOYEE  NUMBERS
The average monthly number of employees (including the Executive Directors) 
employed during the year:
2015 2014
By activity:
Operations 785 784
Sales and marketing 340 300
Development and engineering 213 156
Administration 349 352
1,687 1,592
By segment:
Maritime 378 356
Enterprise 74 70
Government 196 181
Aviation 68 28
Central Services 971 957
1,687 1,592
8. KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION
The Group’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management 
personnel of the business. Details of the total amounts earned during the year 
are as follows:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Short-term benefits 4.5 6.0
Company contributions to defined contribution 
pension schemes
(1)
– 0.2
Share-based payments
(2)
5.9 6.7
10.4 12.9
(1) Includes the value of cash allowances taken by two Executive Directors in lieu of 
pension contributions.
(2) Includes employers’ national insurance or other social security contributions.
The Remuneration report contains full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration on 
page 82. In both the current and prior year, no Director has been a member of 
the Group’s defined contribution pension plan.  112  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
9. NET FINANCING COSTS
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Bank interest receivable and other interest (1.4) (1.5)
Net amortisation of premium on Senior Notes  
due 2017 – (6.0)
Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and 
post-employment liability (0.4) (0.6)
Total  financing  income (1.8) (8.1)
Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 74.1 84.3
Interest on Convertible Bonds 30.7 (18.3)
Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 0.9 1.4
Amortisation of debt issue costs 7.9 16.0
Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 1.1 0.5
Redemption premium on Senior Notes due 2017 – 32.8
Other interest 10.8 0.3
Financing  cost 125.5 117.0
Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of 
qualifying assets (35.3) (41.9)
Total financing cost 90.2 75.1
Net financing cost 88.4 67.0
During 2014, a non-recurring credit of $48.5m was recognised on the 
Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity 
date, due to the expiration of the bond holder’s redemption option in 
November 2014.
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are 
calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets. 
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.0% (2014: 3.8%).
10. TAXATION
The tax charge for the year recognised in the income statement:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Current tax:
Current year 37.0 41.0
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 24.0 (45.9)
Total current tax   61.0 (4.9)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33.7 18.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (17.9) (9.3)
Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation 
tax rate (20.8) (2.7)
Total deferred tax (5.0) 6.1
Total taxation charge 56.0 1.2
Of the total $55.2m adjustment in respect of prior periods recognised in 2014, 
$53.1m related to the release of a provision for potential tax liabilities in relation 
to the Inmarsat-4 satellites. 
The effective tax rate was 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) and is reconciled below:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Profit before tax 338.0 342.3
Income tax at 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) (68.4) (73.6)
Differences in overseas tax rates (2.3) 2.4
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (6.1) 55.2
Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation 
tax rate 20.8 2.7
Impact of prior year losses not previously recognised – 6.9
Impact of prior year temporary differences 
recognised (excluding losses) – 8.7
Impact of current year losses not recognised (0.6) (1.7)
Other non-deductible expenses/
non-taxable income 0.6 (1.8)
Total taxation charge (56.0) (1.2)
Tax credited directly to equity:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Current tax credit on share options 0.8 0.4
Deferred tax credit on share options 1.1 0.2
Total tax credited directly to equity 1.9 0.6
Tax credited/(charged) directly to other comprehensive income:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Current tax credit on cash flow hedges (0.2) 0.2
Deferred tax (charged)/credit relating to gains 
on cash flow hedges (0.2) 2.3
Deferred tax credit/(charged) on remeasurement 
of defined benefit asset and post-employment 
benefits (0.6) (0.6)
Deferred tax credit/(charged) on remeasurement 
of available for sale financial asset 1.4 (1.4)
Total tax credited directly to other   comprehensive  income 0.4 0.5
11. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE (GAINS)/LOSSES
($ in millions) Note 2015 2014
Pension and post-retirement liability 28 (0.4) (0.8)
Other operating (income)/costs (2.9) 2.7
Total foreign exchange (gain)/losses (3.3) 1.9
12.  DIVIDENDS
During 2015, the 2015 interim dividend of $88.1m (19.61 cents per ordinary 
share) and the 2014 final dividend of $136.0m (30.26 cents per ordinary share) 
were paid to the Company’s shareholders. During 2014, the 2014 interim 
dividend of $83.7m (18.68 cents per ordinary share) and the 2013 final 
dividend of $129.1m (28.82 cents per ordinary share) were paid to the 
Company’s shareholders.
A final dividend for the 2015 financial  year of 31.78 cents per ordinary share, 
amounting to a total dividend of $142.8m, is to be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting on 5 May 2016. In accordance with IAS 10, these financial 
statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
($ in cents) 2015 2014
Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 19.61 18.68
Final dividend per ordinary share 31.78 30.26
Total dividend per ordinary share 51.39 48.94
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 113
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
($ in millions)
Freehold
land and
buildings
Service
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings
Space
segment
Assets in the
course of
construction Total
Cost:
31 December 2013 15.1 224.3 2,375.1 1,226.4 3,840.9
Additions 1.7 18.6 85.3 266.8 372.4
Acquisitions 0.1 2.7 – 0.4 3.2
Disposals – (3.5) (141.4) – (144.9)
Transfers from assets in the course of construction – – 413.7 (413.7) –
31 December 2014 16.9 242.1 2,732.7 1,079.9 4,071.6
Additions 0.3 30.5 90.4 326.3 447.5
Disposals – (18.1) (7.9) (0.1) (26.1)
Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications
(1)
0.1 73.8 733.3 (802.2) 5.0
31 December 2015 17.3 328.3 3,548.5 603.9 4,498.0
Accumulated  depreciation:
31 December 2013   (7.1) (181.5) (1,156.4) – (1,345.0)
Charge for the year (1.5) (26.2) (192.4) – (220.1)
Impairment losses – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Disposals – 2.8 140.5 – 143.3
31 December 2014 (8.6) (205.3) (1,208.3) – (1,422.2)
Charge for the year (1.3) (21.9) (216.3) – (239.5)
Disposals – 16.9 6.9 – 23.8
Reclassifications
(1)
– (32.9) 33.0 – 0.1
31 December 2015 (9.9) (243.2) (1,384.7) – (1,637.8)
Net book amount at 31 December 2014   8.3 36.8 1,524.4 1,079.9 2,649.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 7.4 85.1 2,163.8 603.9 2,860.2
(1) Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows:
Space segment assets:
 Satellites  13–15 years
 Other space segment, including ground infrastructure  5–12 years
Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment  3–15 years
Buildings  20 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group was carrying certain freehold land and buildings with a net book value of nil. Had they 
been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2015 would have been $33.2m (2014: $12.5m). Market valuation is based on the Directors’ 
best estimates.
In 2015 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets. The grants have been deducted from the cost of the 
relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount. Government grants received in 2015 were $1.7m (2014: $1.7m). 114  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
($ in millions) Goodwill Trademarks Software
Intellectual 
property
Terminal
development
and network
access costs
Customer
relationships
Spectrum
rights,
orbital
slots and
licences Total
Cost:
31 December 2013   766.6 49.9 222.1 14.7 137.1 388.0 18.6 1,597.0
Additions – – 20.0 – 22.2 – 10.1 52.3
Acquisitions 14.7 0.6 7.0 – – 16.0 – 38.3
Disposals – (29.6) – – – (0.2) (1.8) (31.6)
31 December 2014 781.3 20.9 249.1 14.7 159.3 403.8 26.9 1,656.0
Additions – 0.7 22.4 – 16.9 – 9.6 49.6
Disposals – – (26.7) – – – – (26.7)
Reclassifications
(1)
– 3.7 (23.1) – 4.3 – 10.1 (5.0)
31 December 2015 781.3 25.3 221.7 14.7 180.5 403.8 46.6 1,673.9
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   losses:
31 December 2013   (359.2) (39.3) (142.2) (14.7) (77.7) (176.5) (6.3) (815.9)
Charge for the year – (1.3) (24.7) – (10.6) (30.7) (4.4) (71.7)
Disposals – 29.5 – – – 0.2 1.8 31.5
Impairment losses – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
31 December 2014 (359.2) (11.1) (166.9) (14.7) (88.3) (207.0) (9.2) (856.4)
Charge for the year – (1.0) (24.0) – (12.2) (32.1) (2.4) (71.7)
Disposals – – 26.7 – – – – 26.7
Impairment losses – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Reclassifications
(1)
– – 7.8 – (7.8) – (0.1) (0.1)
31 December 2015 (359.2) (12.1) (156.4) (14.7) (108.3) (239.5) (11.7) (901.9)
Net book amount at 31 December 2014   422.1 9.8 82.2 – 71.0 196.8 17.7 799.6
Net book amount at 31 December 2015 422.1 13.2 65.3 – 72.2 164.3 34.9 772.0
(1)  Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group.
 
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on an acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at 
the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the 
purpose of impairment testing. 
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between 7 and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Group’s BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being 
amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 5 years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible 
assets. Costs directly relating to the Group’s BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 5 to 10 years. 
Amortisation of costs directly relating to GX network access will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the 
straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos were amortised over their useful lives of 5 years, these were fully amortised during the year. 
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Group’s Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine 
whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life. Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets commenced when the Inmarsat-5 satellites went operational in 
December 2015. Indefinite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 115
15. INVESTMENTS
($ in millions) 
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Interest in associates 12.1 10.8
Interest in associates represents the Group’s investments which have been 
treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method 
of accounting. Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to 
be immaterial and as a result the associates’ assets, liabilities, revenues and 
profits have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 
2015 total $1.2m (2014: $1.1m). The Group’s aggregate share of its associates’ 
profits for the year is $2.5m (2014: $2.6m) and has been recognised in the 
income statement.
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with 
banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less, and for the purposes of the cash flow statement also 
includes bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in 
current liabilities on the balance sheet.
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Cash at bank and in hand 53.6 40.7
Short-term deposits with original maturity of less 
than three months 123.7 163.7
Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 204.4
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash 
flow statement:
($ in millions) Note
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 204.4
Bank overdrafts 19 (2.6) –
Net cash and cash equivalents 174.7 204.4
At 31 December 2015, the Group has $3.0m (2014: $nil) of restricted cash held 
in escrow in relation to the disposal of SkyWave.
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Current:
Trade receivables 196.8 220.4
Other receivables 35.9 7.3
Prepayments and accrued income 92.0 77.7
Total trade and other receivables 324.7 305.4
Non-current:
Prepayments and accrued income – 3.9
Defined benefit pension asset 19.0 18.0
Other receivables 4.4 2.5
Total other receivables 23.4 24.4
The Group’s trade and other receivables are stated after provisions for 
uncollectable trade receivables. Movements in the provisions during the year 
were as follows:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
1 January 18.7 10.5
Charged to the provision in respect of the 
current year 13.3 9.0
Utilised in the year (1.0) (0.5)
Provision released in the year (14.9) (0.3)
As at 31 December
(1)
16.1 18.7
(1) The maturity of the Group’s provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 
31 December 2015 is $1.6m between 1 and 30 days overdue, $4.2m between 31 and 120 days 
overdue and $10.3m over 120 days overdue (2014: $4.2m between 1 and 30 days overdue, 
$7.8m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $6.7m over 120 days).
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to 
approximate to their fair value.
18. INVENTORIES
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Finished goods 24.6 28.0
Work in progress 0.4 0.4
Total inventories   25.0 28.4
The Group’s inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence. 
Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
1 January 15.1 3.5
Charged to the allowance in respect of the 
current year 3.9 12.3
Provision released in the year (1.8) (0.7)
As at 31 December 17.2 15.1
The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their 
fair value. 116  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
19. NET BORROWINGS
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
($ in millions) Amount
Deferred  financing
cost Net balance Amount
Deferred 
financing
cost Net balance
Current:
Bank overdrafts 2.6 – 2.6 – – –
Deferred satellite payments 1.8 – 1.8 5.9 – 5.9
EIB Facility 44.1 – 44.1 44.1 – 44.1
Ex-Im Bank Facilities 80.9 – 80.9 68.1 – 68.1
Total current borrowings 129.4 – 129.4 118.1 – 118.1
Non-current:
Deferred satellite payments 14.5 – 14.5 17.4 – 17.4
Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 (7.3) 992.7 1,000.0 (8.7) 991.3
– Net issuance discount (6.5) – (6.5) (7.6) – (7.6)
EIB Facility 88.1 (0.4) 87.7 132.1 (0.6) 131.5
Ex-Im Bank Facilities 633.3 (18.0) 615.3 568.9 (18.9) 550.0
Convertible Bonds 326.6 – 326.6 301.3 – 301.3
– Accretion of principal 3.4 – 3.4 3.1 – 3.1
Total non-current borrowings 2,059.4 (25.7) 2,033.7 2,015.2 (28.2) 1,987.0
Total borrowings 2,188.8 (25.7) 2,163.1 2,133.3 (28.2) 2,105.1
Cash and cash equivalents (177.3) – (177.3) (204.4) – (204.4)
Net borrowings 2,011.5 (25.7) 1,985.8 1,928.9 (28.2) 1,900.7
EIB FACILITY
In 2010, the Group signed an 8-year facility agreement with the European Investment Bank (the EIB Facility). No additional funding is available under this facility, 
which matures on 30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments. Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in January, April, 
July and October each year.
EX-IM BANK FACILITIES
The Group has two direct financing agreements with the Export-Import Bank (the Ex-Im Bank Facilities) of the United States. The $700.0m facility signed in 2011 
was available to be drawn down for four years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 8.5 years. Drawings under this facility incur 
interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan. In November 2014, the Group signed a seven year $185.9m facility which has a total availability period of two 
years and will then be repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further five years. Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 1.96% for the 
life of the loan.
SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022
On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1.0bn of 4.875% Senior Notes due 15 May 2022. The aggregate gross proceeds were $992.1m, net of $7.9m issuance discount.
CONVERTIBLE  BONDS
In 2007, the Group issued $287.7m of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 9 November 2017. The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have 
a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.5%. The total number of ordinary shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 
23.3 million shares and the conversion price at 31 December 2015 was $12.31. The conversion price is subject to periodic adjustment if dividends paid on ordinary 
shares exceed defined levels. 
SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY
On 22 May 2015, the Group signed a 5-year $500.5m revolving credit facility (Senior Credit Facility). Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the 
applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 0.70% and 1.70% determined by reference to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. At 31 December 2015, there were no 
drawings under the Senior Credit Facility. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 117
CONVERTIBLE  BONDS
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were initially 
split into a liability component of $224.3m and an equity component of 
$56.9m. The equity component represents the fair value of the option to 
convert the liability into equity of the Group as follows:
($ in millions)
Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7
Cost of issue (6.5)
Net proceeds 281.2
Equity component (56.9)
Liability component at date of issue 224.3
Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2014 111.5
Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2014 5.1
Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 2014 (35.6)
Cumulative redemption of convertible bond to 31 December 2014 (0.9)
Liability component at 31 December 2014 304.4
Interest charged 30.7
Coupon  interest (5.1)
Liability component at 31 December 2015 330.0
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest 
rate of 9.88% to the liability component. The total interest charge is split 
between the coupon interest charge of $5.1m and accreted interest of $25.7m. 
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year 
until maturity. Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and 
November each year until maturity. During 2014, a non-recurring credit of 
$48.5m was recognised against interest charged on the Convertible Bonds 
arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date. 
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior 
Notes due 2022, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility to 
approximate to their fair value (see note 31). The effective interest rates at the 
balance sheet dates were as follows:
Effective interest rate % 2015 2014
Bank overdrafts 1.25 1.25
EIB Facility 1.66 1.57
Senior Notes due 2022 4.875 4.875
Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.11 3.11
Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 1.96 1.96
Deferred satellite payments 4.00 4.70
Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Current:
Trade payables 91.6 136.5
Deferred consideration 1.5 2.0
Other taxation and social security payables 7.9 5.1
Other payables 6.8 3.3
Accruals and deferred income
(1)
357.1 328.0
Total trade and other payables 464.9 474.9
Non-current:
Deferred consideration 0.5 0.4
Other payables 24.1 25.2
Defined benefit pension and post-employment 
liability
(2)
18.3 20.0
Total other payables 42.9 45.6
(1) The deferred income balance includes $208.8m relating to payments received from 
LightSquared. The balance has not been changed since the prior year as there were no 
associated costs incurred. This balance is expected to unwind over the forthcoming years. 
(2) The Group has reclassified its defined benefit pension and post-employment liability to 
other payables from provisions during the year. Prior year comparatives have been restated.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to 
approximate to their fair value.
21. PROVISIONS
Movements in the current portion of the Group’s provisions were as follows:
($ in millions)
Asset
retirement
obligations
Other
provisions Total
Current:
At 1 January 2014 0.5 3.8 4.3
Charged in respect of current year – 4.3 4.3
Utilised in current year – (5.0) (5.0)
Revision in estimated timing 
of settlement (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 0.3 3.1 3.4
Charged in respect of current year – 3.7 3.7
Utilised in current year – (5.2) (5.2)
Revision in estimated timing 
of settlement (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.2 1.6 1.8
The Group’s other provisions relate primarily to restructuring charges. The 
associated cash flows in respect of the restructuring provisions outstanding 
at 31 December 2015 are expected to occur within one year.  118  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
21. PROVISIONS  continued
Movements in the non-current portion of the Group’s provisions were as follows:
($ in millions)
Asset
retirement
obligations
Other
provisions Total
Non-current:
At 31 December 2013 1.2 1.6 2.8
Charged to income statement in respect of current year 0.1 4.2 4.3
Utilised in current year – (0.1) (0.1)
Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2014 1.5 5.7 7.2
Utilised in current year – (2.3) (2.3)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment – (2.5) (2.5)
Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2015 1.6 0.9 2.5
Asset retirement obligations relate to the expected costs of removing equipment from leased premises. Timing of the future outflow are determined by the 
termination of the lease premises agreement. 
In the prior year, the Group’s pension and post-employment liabilities were classified as provisions. At 31 December 2015, these balances have been reclassified to 
‘other payables’ in note 20. Prior year comparatives have been restated. 
22. CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION
The current tax asset of $3.8m and current tax liability of $123.2m (2014: $8.5m and $81.3m, respectively), represent the income tax payable in respect of current 
and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) for the year are shown below:
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
($ in millions) Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (35.1) 184.3 149.2 (10.5) 166.2 155.7
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets – 41.7 41.7 – 37.7 37.7
Other (11.0) 1.3 (9.7) (7.2) 1.2 (6.0)
Pension and post-employment benefits (0.7) 1.2 0.5 (1.1) 0.8 (0.3)
Share options (7.8) – (7.8) (6.9) – (6.9)
Tax losses (21.0) – (21.0) (20.6) – (20.6)
Net deferred tax liabilities (75.6) 228.5 152.9 (46.3) 205.9 159.6
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred 
income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The value of deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Deferred tax assets (44.6) (26.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 197.5 186.3
Net deferred tax liabilities 152.9 159.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 119
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
($ in millions)
At
1 January
2015  Recognised
in income
Recognised
in  equity
Recognised
in other   comprehensive  income
At
31  December
2015
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 155.7 (6.5) – – 149.2
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 37.7 4.0 – – 41.7
Other (6.0) (2.5) – (1.2) (9.7)
Pension and post-employment benefits (0.3) 0.2 – 0.6 0.5
Share options (6.9) 0.2 (1.1) – (7.8)
Tax losses (20.6) (0.4) – – (21.0)
Total 159.6 (5.0) (1.1) (0.6) 152.9
($ in millions)
At
1 January
2014 
Globe  
Wireless
acquisition
Recognised
in income
Recognised
in equity
Recognised
in other 
comprehensive 
income
At
31 December
2014
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 143.7 1.2 10.8 – – 155.7
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 30.5 – 7.2 – – 37.7
Other (3.2) – (1.9) – (0.9) (6.0)
Pension and post-employment benefits (0.8) – (0.1) – 0.6 (0.3)
Share options (6.6) – (0.1) (0.2) – (6.9)
Tax losses (10.8) – (9.8) – – (20.6)
Total 152.8 1.2 6.1 (0.2) (0.3) 159.6
Total unprovided deferred tax assets:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Temporary timing differences (0.3) –
Unused income tax losses (3.7) (3.1)
Unused capital losses (24.2) (25.1)
Total (28.2) (28.2)
Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes. The unrecognised gross temporary difference in 
respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil (2014: $nil), resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil (2014: $nil). 
The Budget announced by the Chancellor on 8 July 2015 included changes to the main rates of corporation tax for UK companies. The standard rate of corporation 
tax remains 20% for the financial year 1 April 2016 however there will be a further reduction to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and to 18% from 1 April 2020. The 
deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of the forecast impact of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 
20% to the substantively enacted rate of 18%.  120  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
23. RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS
Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Profit for the year 282.0 341.1
Adjustments for:
 Taxation charge 56.0 1.2
 Financing costs 90.2 75.1
 Financing income (1.8) (8.1)
Operating  profit 426.4 409.3
 Depreciation and amortisation 311.2 291.8
 (Gain)/loss on disposal of assets (9.3) 1.2
 Impairment loss 0.2 1.3
 Share of profit of associates (2.5) (2.6)
EBITDA 726.0 701.0
 Dividends received from associates 1.2 1.1
 Non-cash employee benefit costs 14.2 11.3
 Forward exchange contracts (2.4) 2.1
 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 2.7 2.7
Changes in net working capital:
 Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 5.6 (8.7)
 Decrease in inventories 2.4 3.1
 Decrease in trade and other payables (26.8) (61.3)
 (Decrease)/increase in provisions (5.9) 2.1
Cash generated from operations 717.0 653.4
24. SHARE CAPITAL
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Authorised:
1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of €0.0005 each 
(2014: 1,166,610,560) 0.7 0.7
0.7 0.7
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
449,588,539 ordinary shares of €0.0005 each 
(2014: 448,321,387) 0.3 0.3
0.3 0.3
During the year ended 31 December 2015, a total of 1,267,152 (2014: 20,265) 
ordinary shares of €0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company 
under its employee share schemes. No shares were repurchased during 2015 
or 2014.
25. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS
The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares 
to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages. In 2014, 
the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan (ESP) was approved by shareholders and 
replaced the previous Executive Share Plans. Share awards since May 2014 
have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules. Under the ESP 
the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards (BSA) and Performance Share 
Awards (PSA), which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan (BSP) and 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards. The costs of these awards are 
recognised in the income statement (see note 7) based on the fair value of the 
awards on the grant date. Further information on how these are calculated can 
be found on the next page and under ‘Employee benefits’ in the principal 
accounting policies on page 106.
STAFF VALUE PARTICIPATION PLAN
All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan (the 2004 Plan) 
have now vested and are exercisable. Whenever options are exercised under 
the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a de minimis charge of €1 for each tranche 
of options exercised. The options expire 10 years from the date of grant. Shares 
are transferred to the option holders from the Inmarsat Employees’ Share 
Ownership Plan Trust (the Trust) (resident in Jersey). No new shares have been 
issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reflects the options 
outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2015, is as follows:
Shares
available
for grant
2004
Plan
options
outstanding
Weighted
average
exercise
price per
option
Balance at 1 January 2014 776,155 77,026 £3.72
Exercised – Staff Value 
Participation Plan – (26,511) £7.23
Exercised – Bonus Share Plan (552,027) –
Balance at 31 December 2014 224,128 50,515 £3.74
Exercised – Bonus Share Plan (136,557) –
Balance at 31 December 2015 87,571 –
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 87,571 50,515
Exercise price per tranche €1.00
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 
31 December 2015 is one year.
BONUS SHARE AWARD
Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and 
certain members of senior management. Further information on awards 
granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 92.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares. The 
performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market-based 
performance conditions. Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue 
and be added as additional shares upon vesting. 
Under the rules of the BSA the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to 
satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares. It is, however, the intention of 
the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement 
to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair 
value of the awards is the value of the grant. This is due to the fact that 
regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total 
value of shares to be awarded (excluding shares added in lieu of dividends) will 
not change.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP), for the Group’s Business Unit presidents and certain members of staff. 
The three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 financial years and awards are 
made according to achievements against non-market-based targets. Any 
dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares 
upon vesting. For the 2015 financial year this plan has now been replaced and 
the participants of the LTIP are now included within the 2015 BSA scheme. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 121
PERFORMANCE  SHARE  AWARD
The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management. Further information on awards granted to Directors can 
be found in the Remuneration report on page 92. Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the 
date of vesting in the form of additional shares. Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance 
conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date. The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance 
conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls. The rules of the PSA provide that the 
Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares. It is, however, the intention of the Company to satisfy the awards 
using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and FTSE 350 
Indices (excluding investment trusts), depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA measured over a three-year period. For the awards made in 2012, 2013 
and 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance 
measures. The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value. For the 2015 award, the vesting schedule has been restructured so 
that 30% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR for Executive Directors (for any participants below Executive Director level this is linked to revenue 
growth over the three-year period of the awards), 30% is linked to EBITDA and 40% is linked to strategic objectives set out prior to the grant date of the scheme.
The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2015 or after are as follows:
Performance Share Awards
Grant date
19 March
2015
19 March
2014
19 March
2013
30 March
2012
Grant price £9.34 £7.08 £7.00 £4.60
Exercise price nil nil nil nil
Bad leaver rate 12% 0% 0% 0%
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Volatility 22.8% 32.7% 34.1% 33.9%
Fair value per share option £8.94 £5.52 £5.76 £3.61
Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of 
an award. For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 
2015 is 1.2 and 1.4 years, respectively.
UK SHARESAVE SCHEME AND INTERNATIONAL SHARESAVE PLAN
The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme. A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of £4.59 (reflecting the 
maximum discount permitted of 20%) will mature in February 2016. 
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible. Participants are given either the opportunity to receive 
options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered (at the 
Company’s discretion) in cash or shares. It is the Company’s intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will 
be newly-issued. A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of £4.59 matured in February 2016. 
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been 
made. The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2015 is 0.5 years for 
each plan.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) is for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Company’s stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated by an 
aggregate of 24 monthly contributions. A grant made under the scheme in November 2012 with an option price of £4.94 (reflecting the maximum discount 
permitted of 15%) matured in January 2015. Options under the ESPP expire after a maximum of 2.25 years. This plan has now ended and the balance of exercisable 
awards at 31 December 2015 is nil.  122  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
25. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS  continued
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions:
Grant date
Sharesave
Scheme
(UK and 
International)
18 December 
2012
ESPP
26 November 
2012
Market price at date of grant £5.93 £5.93
Exercise price £4.59 £4.94
Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa
Vesting period 3 years 2 years
Volatility 33.1% 36.5%
Dividend yield assumption 4.53% 4.53%
Risk-free interest rate 0.46% 0.36%
Fair value per option £1.45 £1.34
UK SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN
The UK Share Incentive Plan (SIP) has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme. Arrangements exist which replicate the awards 
as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31 December 2015 (excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted above) is as follows:
SIP (UK) BSA
(1)
PSA
Sharesave
(UK)
Sharesave
(International) ESPP Total
Balance at 1 January 2015 392,077 1,822,685 1,688,080 515,734 288,192 85,999 4,792,767
Granted/allocated – 1,669,800 597,956 – – – 2,267,756
Forfeited and lapsed – (314,412) (582,930) (21,423) (71,025) – (989,790)
Exercised (134,173) (920,815) (394,358) (13,230) (3,420) (85,999) (1,551,995)
Balance at 31 December 2015 257,904 2,257,258 1,308,748 481,081 213,747 – 4,518,738
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 257,904 – – – – – 257,904
Exercise price per share n/a nil nil £4.59 £4.59 £4.94
(1) Includes the Business Unit LTIP scheme.
26. RESERVES
Cash flow hedge reserve:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Balance at 1 January (1.6) 8.6
Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges:
 Forward exchange contracts – (3.0)
 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve – 0.1
Income tax (credited)/charged directly to equity – 0.2
Reclassified to the income statement
(1)
:
 Forward exchange contracts 3.1 (11.7)
 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve (0.2) 1.9
Income tax (charged)/credited related to amounts transferred to the income statement (0.4) 2.3
Balance at 31 December 0.9 (1.6)
(1) Gains and losses reclassified from equity into the income statement during the period are included in the following income statement lines.
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Total net operating costs 2.9 (9.8)
Income tax (credit)/expense (0.4) 2.3
Total reclassified (charged/(credited)) to the income statement in the year 2.5 (7.5)
Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve. When a 
hedged item is recognised in the income statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve is 
reclassified to the income statement. When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the balance sheet the accumulated gain or loss is 
transferred from the cash flow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 123
27. EARNINGS PER SHARE   Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been calculated 
based on profit attributable to equity holders for the year and the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue (excluding shares held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust). 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary 
shares. These represent share options and awards granted to employees under 
the employee share plans. At 30 September 2014, the Convertible Bonds were 
dilutive due to the credit recognised to interest expense from re-basing the 
bonds to mature in November 2017. At 31 December 2015, the Convertible 
Bonds were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they 
were antidilutive.
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 281.4 340.5
Interest on convertible bonds (net of tax) – (14.4)
Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted 
earnings per share 281.4 326.1
(millions)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue 449.2 448.1
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 4.4 27.2
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for 
diluted earnings per share 453.6 475.3
($ per share)
Basic earnings per share 0.63 0.76
Diluted earnings per share 0.62 0.69
28. PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations. The 
Group’s pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and 
defined contribution arrangements.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom 
and The Netherlands. The Group’s principal defined benefit pension plan is the 
Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a 
separate fund administered by a corporate trustee; the scheme is closed to 
new employees.
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit 
credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualified and 
independent actuaries as at 31 December 2014. The results of the valuation, 
which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes 
in circumstances (including changes in market prices and interest rates) up to 
31 December 2015, are set out below.
The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees. 
The Group’s principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement 
healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired 
employees (and their dependants) who were employed before 1 January 1998. 
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible 
to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans. Membership of 
this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK. 
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are 
paid. The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and 
accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the 
exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the 
Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plan’s assets and its 
liabilities. This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks. 
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy 
are as follows:
 > market risk (the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than 
assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level 
being lower than expected);
 > interest rate risk (the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value 
placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates);
 > inflation risk (similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation);
 > credit risk (the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not 
be made);
 > active management risk (the risk that active managers underperform the 
markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment 
returns); and
 > currency risk (the risk that currency market movements adversely impact 
investment returns).
In addition to the investment-related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk 
that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used 
in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice. This could lead to 
unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit 
payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s pension and 
post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS 19 are:
At  31  December
2015
At 
31 December
2014
Weighted average actuarial assumptions:
Discount rate 3.92% 3.74%
Future salary increases 3.14% 3.05%
Medical cost trend rate 3.50% 3.40%
Future pension increases 3.01% 3.39%
Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected 
changes in future improvements in life expectancy. The average life 
expectancy assumptions for the Company’s pension and post-employment 
benefits liabilities are as follows:
Life  expectancy
2015
Life
expectancy
2014
Male current age 65 88.5 88.6
Female current age 65 89.6 90.2
Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the 
individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for 
the experience of the Group where appropriate. For the Inmarsat Global 
defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement 
healthcare benefits for 2015 and 2014, mortality has been assumed to follow 
the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2013 improvement 
with a long-term trend of 1.5%.
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit 
obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and 
healthcare cost trend rates. The sensitivity analysis below is for the Group’s 
principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been 
determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other 
assumptions are held constant. 124  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
28. PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS  continued
Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme:
Change in assumption
Impact on
benefit
obligation
increase/
(decrease)
Impact on
projected
pension cost
increase/
(decrease)
Increase in discount factor of 0.25% (5.7%) (31.3%)
Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.2% 31.5%
Increase in inflation of 0.25% 6.1% 30.2%
Decrease in inflation of 0.25% (5.8%) (28.0%)
Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.9% 11.8%
Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme:
Change in assumption
Impact on
benefit
obligation
increase/
(decrease)
Impact on
service cost
increase/
(decrease)
Increase in discount factor of 0.5% (7.2%) –
Increase in inflation of 0.5% 12.1% –
Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 22.1% 22.9%
Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% (17.2%) (17.7%)
In reality there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the 
assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation. The above 
analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Present value of funded defined benefit 
obligations (pension) (109.2) (116.2)
Present value of unfunded defined benefit 
obligations (pension) (0.7) (1.0)
Present value of unfunded defined benefit 
obligations (post-employment benefits) (17.0) (18.4)
Fair value of defined benefit assets 127.6 133.6
Net  defined  benefit  asset/(liability)  recognised in the balance sheet 0.7 (2.0)
The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows:
($ in millions) Note
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Defined benefit pension asset 17 19.0 18.0
Defined benefit pension and 
post-employment liability 20 (18.3) (20.0)
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligations is as follows:
($ in millions)
Defined
benefit
pension
plan
Post-
employment
benefits
At 1 January 2014 103.1 17.4
Current service cost 2.4 0.2
Past service cost – 0.1
Interest cost 4.4 0.8
Remeasurement losses:
   Actuarial losses arising from changes in 
financial assumptions 14.9 1.3
Gain on curtailment (1.4) –
Liabilities extinguished on settlement (1.3) –
Foreign exchange losses (5.4) (1.1)
Benefits paid (0.8) (0.3)
Contributions by pension participants 1.3 –
At 31 December 2014 117.2 18.4
Current service cost 2.7 0.2
Past service cost – (0.1)
Interest cost 4.4 0.7
Remeasurement losses:
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions (1.5) –
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
financial assumptions (2.5) (0.7)
 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments (2.9)
Foreign exchange loss (7.4) (1.1)
Benefits paid (1.4) (0.4)
Contributions by pension participants 1.3 –
At 31 December 2015 109.9 17.0
Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit 
pension plans is as follows:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
At 1 January 133.6 114.0
Interest income 5.1 5.0
Remeasurement gains/(losses):
 Experience return on plan asset (excluding 
interest income) (4.5) 17.7
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions – 0.3
 Actuarial (loss)/gains arising from changes 
in financial assumptions (0.1) 1.6
Contributions by employer 1.8 1.5
Contributions by pension participants 1.3 1.5
Benefits paid (1.1) (0.6)
Assets distributed on settlement – (1.3)
Expenses paid (included in service cost) (0.4) (0.4)
Foreign exchange gain (8.1) (5.7)
At 31 December 127.6 133.6
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 125
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plans are as follows:
2015 2014
($ in millions)
Defined
benefit
pension  plan
Post-
employment
benefits
Defined
benefit
pension plan
Post-
employment
benefits
Current service cost 3.1 0.2 2.8 0.2
Past service (gain)/cost – (0.1) – 0.1
Gain on curtailment – – (1.4) –
Net interest (income)/expense (0.7) 0.7 (0.6) 0.8
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss 0.7 (1.1) 0.3 (1.1)
3.1 (0.3) 1.1 –
Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs (note 7). The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within 
interest payable (note 9).
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows:
2015 2014
($ in millions)
Defined
benefit
pension  plan
Post-
employment
benefits
Defined
benefit
pension plan
Post-
employment
benefits
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (1.5) – (0.3) –
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions (2.4) (0.7) 13.3 1.3
Actuarial gains arising from changes in experience adjustment (2.9) –
Return on plan asset (excluding interest income) 4.5 – (17.7) –
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability (2.3) (0.7) (4.7) 1.3
The assets held in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes were as follows:
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
Value
($ in millions)
Percentage
of total plan
assets
(%)
Value
($ in millions)
Percentage
of total plan
assets
(%)
Equities 36.6 32.93% 44.0 32.93%
Cash 0.1 0.07% 0.1 0.08%
Bonds 70.0 55.31% 73.9 55.31%
Other 20.9 11.68% 15.6 11.68%
Fair value of scheme assets 127.6 133.6 126  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
28. PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS  continued
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, the majority of 
which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property, Alternatives and Multi Asset Credit funds, which are priced monthly. The allocations to each of 
the investment funds as at 31 December 2015 are as follows:
Fund Legal structure
Allocation 
(%)
Passive Global Equity Mercer QIF CCF 7.1
Global Small Cap Equity MGI Funds PLC 6.1
Global Fundamental (RAFI) Equity Mercer QIF CCF 7.1
Emerging Markets Equity MGI Funds PLC 5.5
Global Low Volatility Equity MGI Funds PLC 3.1
Eurozone Equity MGI Funds PLC 1.1
Emerging Markets Debt MGI Funds PLC 2.8
Global High Yield Bonds MGI Funds PLC 2.6
Alternatives Mercer QIF Fund PLC 9.0
High Lease-to-Value Property Mercer QIF CCF 2.7
Private Debt Mercer Private Investment Partners (Offshore) LLP 0.9
Multi Asset Credit Mercer QIF Fund PLC 2.2
Total growth portfolio 50.2
Long Flexible Enhanced Matching Fixed Mercer QIF Fund PLC 3.7
Short Flexible Enhanced Matching Real Mercer QIF Fund PLC 1.4
Medium Flexible Enhanced Matching Real Mercer QIF Fund PLC 9.0
Long Flexible Enhanced Matching Real Mercer QIF Fund PLC 10.1
UK Credit Mercer PIF Fund PLC 15.3
UK Inflation Linked Bonds MGI Funds PLC 10.3
Total matching portfolio 49.8
Total assets 100.0
The investment portfolio seeks to mitigate the investment risks identified above through a combination of asset class diversification, underlying investment 
manager diversification and the use of currency hedging where appropriate. The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio. 
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plan’s liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently 
diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk. The assets within 
the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plan’s 
liabilities. This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a 
combination of the following: the nature of the plan’s liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustee’s risk tolerance and a 
‘fair value’ assessment of market levels. Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond or bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged 
exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities. Instruments utilised within 
the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group; however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 24 years. The defined benefit obligation within that 
plan is split as follows:
Active members   51%
Deferred members  38%
Pensioner members  11%
The average age of the active, deferred and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 
(31 December 2014) was 54 years, 55 years and 68 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2016 are $1.2m. In 2015 actual contributions under 
this plan were $1.0m (2014: $1.2m). 
Under the current Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past 
service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2014. The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 
15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future benefits for members of the defined benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any 
notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement. Contributions in respect of the Defined Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are 
paid in addition. 
The next statutory funding valuation of the plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2017. As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a 
pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benefits. This could lead to an increase or 
decrease from the current level of contributions.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 127
29. OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
The Group’s future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows:
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
($ in millions)
Non-
cancellable
operating
 leases
Other
unrecognised
contractual
commitments Total
Non-
cancellable
operating
 leases
Other
unrecognised
contractual
commitments Total
Within one year 22.9 22.9 45.8 16.1 13.7 29.8
Within two to five years 45.6 18.7 64.3 51.9 24.0 75.9
After five years 51.1 0.7 51.8 64.1 – 64.1
119.6 42.3 161.9 132.1 37.7 169.8
Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased office space, including the Group’s head office located at 99 City Road, London. Other unrecognised 
non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2015 relating to the aforementioned head office 
lease is $0.5m over one year (at 31 December 2014: $1.1m over two years).
In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Within one year 5.2 27.2
Within two to five years 6.1 15.9
11.3 43.1
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment. These amounts are recorded as revenue on a 
straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Group’s future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases expected to be received:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Within one year 29.0 32.1
Within two to five years 2.5 12.0
31.5 44.1
30. CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The following table summarises the capital of the Group:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
As per balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents (177.3) (204.4)
Borrowings 2,163.1 2,105.1
Net borrowings 1,985.8 1,900.7
Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,249.3 1,182.6
Capital 3,235.1 3,083.3
The Group’s objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits 
for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may 
repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and/or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any 
other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities. Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities. In addition, 
movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings (gross of deferred finance costs) to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2015 is 2.77 (2014: 2.75).
The Group’s liquidity is disclosed in note 3(d).
No changes were made in the Group’s objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current or preceding year. 128  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY
The Group’s treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief 
Financial Officer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines. The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include:
 > ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due;
 > maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities;
 > interest rate hedging; and
 > maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
The Group’s foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies. The treasury department is, however, 
authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to 
establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is 
calculated from the agreed currency transactions. This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21. The policy is designed to minimise the impact of 
currency gains and losses in the income statement; gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those 
that were forecast.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY
The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39:
($ in millions)
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
Loans and
receivables Total
Loans and
receivables
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging
Available- 
for-sale Total
Assets as per balance sheet
Trade receivables and other
(1)
310.8 310.8 242.1 – – 242.1
Cash and cash equivalents 177.3 177.3 204.4 – – 204.4
Derivative financial instruments – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Investments – – – – 32.9 32.9
488.1 488.1 446.5 1.4 32.9 480.8
(1) Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income (see note 17).
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
($ in millions)
Derivatives
 used for
hedging
 Other
financial
liabilities Total
Derivatives
 used for
hedging
 Other
financial
liabilities Total
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Borrowings – 2,163.1 2,163.1 – 2,105.1 2,105.1
Trade payables and other
(1)
– 190.5 190.5 – 221.4 221.4
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 – 0.3 5.0 – 5.0
0.3 2,353.6 2,353.9 5.0 2,326.5 2,331.5
(1) Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals (see note 20).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 129
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining 
period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due 
within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 31 December 2015
($ in millions)
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years
Over
5 years Total
Borrowings
(1)
204.4 554.3 535.6 1,301.3 2,595.6
Trade payables and other 166.8 1.4 21.0 1.3 190.5
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 – – – 0.3
371.5 555.7 556.6 1,302.6 2,786.4
(1) Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds. The interest obligations assume no changes in floating interest rates from 
the year end.
At 31 December 2014
($ in millions)
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2 years
Between
2 and 5 years
Over
5 years Total
Borrowings
(1)
195.4 276.0 876.9 1,276.6 2,624.9
Trade payables and other 195.8 1.9 22.3 1.4 221.4
Derivative financial instruments 5.0 – – – 5.0
396.2 277.9 899.2 1,278.0 2,851.3
(1) Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility and Convertible Bonds. The interest obligations assume no changes in floating interest rates from 
the year end.
FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts, which are primarily designated as cash flow hedges.
The fair values at the balance sheet date were:
($ in millions)
At
31  December
2015
At  
31 December
2014
Financial assets:
Forward foreign currency contracts – designated cash flow hedges – 1.4
Forward foreign currency contracts – undesignated – –
Total derivative financial assets – 1.4
Current portion of derivative financial assets – 1.4
Non-current portion of derivative financial assets – –
Financial liabilities:
Forward foreign currency contracts – designated cash flow hedges – 4.5
Forward foreign currency contracts – undesignated 0.3 0.5
Total  derivative  financial  liabilities 0.3 5.0
Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 0.3 5.0
The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a 
current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classified as level 2 in 
the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7. The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current 
forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end. 130  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  continued
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE
The following tables set out the face value and fair value of forward foreign 
exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2015 
and 2014:
At 31 December 2015
Outstanding forward foreign 
exchange contracts (in millions)
Face
value
Maturing
within
1 year
Maturing
between
1 and 2
years
Fair value
(US$)
GBP contracts £10.0 £10.0 – (0.3)
At 31 December 2014
Outstanding forward foreign 
exchange contracts (in millions)
Face
value
Maturing
within
1 year
Maturing
between
1 and 2
years
Fair value
(US$)
GBP contracts £66.0 £66.0 – (2.1)
Euro contracts €6.0 €6.0 – (0.8)
Canadian Dollar contracts $18.0 $18.0 – (0.7)
(3.6)
NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term 
investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, 
deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
FAIR VALUE OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND   FINANCIAL  LIABILITIES
With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2022, the Ex-Im Bank Facilities and 
the Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial 
instruments approximate to the carrying value in the balance sheet.  The fair 
value of Senior Notes due 2022, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds 
are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values:
 > the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits 
approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of 
these instruments (see note 16);
 > the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income 
and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values 
(see notes 17 and 20 respectively);
 > the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present 
value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period 
end. This carrying amount approximately equals fair value (see note 19);
 > the Senior Notes due 2022 are reflected in the balance sheet net of 
unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $7.3m and 
$6.5m, respectively (see note 19). The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 
are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table;
 > the EIB Facility is reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised 
arrangement costs of $0.4m (2014: $0.6m). The fair value approximates the 
carrying value (see note 19);
 > the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reflected in the balance sheet net of 
unamortised arrangement costs of $18.0m (2014: $18.9m). The fair value of 
the 2011 facility has been based on the implicit interest rate of the 2014 
facility (see note 19); and
 > the liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the balance 
sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of 
$nil (2014: $nil) (see note 19). The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is 
based on the market price of the bonds and is reflected in the table below.
At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014
($ in millions)
Carrying
amount
Fair value
amount
Carrying
amount
Fair value
amount
Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 996.3 1,000.0 992.5
Ex-Im Bank Facilities 714.2 741.4 637.0 637.0
Convertible Bonds 326.6 498.6 301.3 418.7
32. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital 
commitments as at 31 December 2015 of $1,219.9m (2014: $504.0m). 
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Group’s GX, 
S-band and I-6 satellite programmes.
33. DISPOSAL
In January 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 19% holding in SkyWave 
Mobile Communications to ORBCOMM Inc. for total proceeds of $32.9m and 
recognised an after-tax gain of $8.1m. The share sale was one part of a suite 
of agreements with ORBCOMM Inc., covering the joint ownership and future 
development and commercialisation of the IsatData Pro (IDP) technology.  
As part of these agreements the Group acquired SkyWave’s satellite network 
assets, hosted at three Inmarsat Satellite Access Stations, for $7.5m.
34. CONTINGENT LIABILITY
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to contingencies 
pursuant to requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and 
standards. Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, 
fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, 
reputational damage and other sanctions. These matters are inherently 
difficult to quantify.
In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing 
at the balance sheet date, and it is probable that an outflow of economic 
resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the 
obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on 
best estimates and management judgement. 
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disclosed contingent 
liabilities in respect of outstanding tax issues with HMRC for which no provision 
had been made, totalling $18m. During the year, HMRC concluded their review 
relating to $12m of this amount with no adjustment to the filed position. 
The remaining exposure is covered within the balance sheet tax provision.
35. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its 
equity-owned investees NTS Maritime Limited, Navarino Telecom SA and JSAT 
Mobile Communications Inc. These transactions represent sales of airtime and 
equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged. Group revenue from 
the related parties for the 2015 financial year was $37.4m, $nil and $22.8m, 
respectively (2014: $34.0m, $0.1m and $22.0m, respectively). The amount 
receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2015 was $13.1m, $nil and 
$2.2m, respectively (2014: $14.5m, $0.8m and $2.7m, respectively).
Amounts owing to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at 
31 December 2015 and 2014 were $1m and  $6.2m, respectively, and relate 
to remuneration earned in the normal course of operations (see note 8).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 131
36. SUBSIDIARIES
At 31 December 2015, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries and associates:
Principal activity
Country of
incorporation and
operation
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2015
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2014
Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Finance PLC Finance company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100%
ISAT Global Xpress OOO Operating company Russian Federation 100% 100%
Inmarsat Brasil Limitada Operating company Brazil 100% 100%
Inmarsat Leasing (Two) Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100%
Inmarsat Services Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
PT ISAT Operating company Indonesia 100% 100%
Inmarsat Communications Company LLC Operating company United Arab Emirates 49% 49%
Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
ISAT US Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
Segovia, Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
Segovia Commercial Services Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions (US) Inc. Operating company United States 100% 100%
Inmarsat Inc. Holding company United States 100% 100%
Inmarsat US Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Europasat Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey 100% 100%
Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Finance III Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Canada Holdings Inc. Holding company Canada 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions (Canada) Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 100%
Stratos Holdings (Cyprus) Limited Holding company Cyprus 100% 100%
Stratos de Mexico S.A de C.V Dormant Mexico 100% 100%
Stratos Gesellschaft fur satelliten-kommunikation mbH. Operating company Germany 100% 100%
Stratos Global Japan KK Holding company Japan 100% 100%
Stratos Global Holdings Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100%
Stratos Broadband Communications Dormant Kazakhstan 100% 100%
Stratos Investments BV Holding company The Netherlands 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions B.V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions SA (PTY) Limited Operating company South Africa 90% 90%
Inmarsat Spain S.A. Operating company Spain 100% 100%
Inmarsat Hong Kong Limited Operating company Hong Kong 100% 100%
Xantic Brazil Limited Dormant Brazil 100% 100%
Inmarsat BV Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100%
Inmarsat (IP) Company Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece 100% 100%
Inmarsat Leasing Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Launch Company Limited Operating company Isle of Man 100% 100% 132  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Principal activity
Country of
incorporation and
operation
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2015
Interest in
issued
ordinary
share capital
at 31 December
2014
Inmarsat Global Xpress Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat SA Operating company Switzerland 100% 100%
NewWave Broadband Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions Pte. Limited Operating company Singapore 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions ehf. Operating company Iceland 51% 51%
Inmarsat Australia Pty Limited Operating company Australia 100% 100%
Allsatphones Pty Limited Operating company Australia 100% 100%
Inmarsat KK Operating company Japan 100% 100%
Inmarsat Solutions (Shanghai) Co. Limited Operating company China 100% 100%
Inmarsat India Private Limited Operating company India 100% –
NTS Maritime Limited  Associate Cyprus 49% 49%
Navarino Telecom SA  Associate Cyprus – 49%
Navarino UK Limited Associate England and Wales 49% –
JSAT Mobile Communications Inc Associate Japan 26.67% 26.67%
In accordance with s479A of the Companies Act 2006, the following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for 
the year ended 31 December 2015: Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited (03688399), Stratos Global Holdings Limited (04113448), Inmarsat Employee Share Plan 
Trustees Limited (03669306) and Inmarsat Leasing Limited (02487502).
36. SUBSIDIARIES  continued
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 133
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Assets
Non-current  assets
Investments
(1)
1,089.3 1,079.6
Other receivables
(2)
77.8 73.3
Deferred tax assets 0.8 0.1
1,167.9 1,153.0
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 1.7
Trade and other receivables
(3)
1.2 1.2
Current tax assets 5.1 –
8.1 2.9
Total assets 1,176.0 1,155.9
Liabilities
Current  liabilities
Trade and other payables
(4)
17.5 9.0
Current tax liabilities – 4.1
Borrowings
(5)
– –
17.5 13.1
Non-current  liabilities
Borrowings
(5)
330.0 304.4
Total  liabilities 347.5 317.5
Net assets 828.5 838.4
Shareholders’  equity
Ordinary shares 0.3 0.3
Share premium 687.6 687.6
Convertible Bonds reserve 56.9 56.9
Other reserves 70.9 59.6
Retained earnings 12.8 34.0
Total equity 828.5 838.4
(1) Investments consist of a $1,007.8m investment in Inmarsat Holdings Limited (2014: $1,007.8m) and $81.5m of capital contributions to Group companies in respect of share-based payments 
(2014: $71.8m).
(2) Other receivables consist of $77.8m amounts due from Group companies (2014: $73.3m).
(3) Trade and other receivables consist of $1.2m amounts due from Group companies (2014: $1.2m).
(4) Trade and other payables consists of $1.8m due to shareholders in respect of dividends paid during 2015 (2014: $1.6m), accruals of $4.2m (2014: $2.8m) and amounts due to Group companies 
of $11.5m (2014: $4.6m). 
(5) Borrowings comprise the Convertible Bonds discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of the Company, registered number 4886072, on pages 133 to 136 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2016 and signed 
on its behalf by:
RUPERT PEARCE      TONY BATES
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 134  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions)
Ordinary
share
capital
Share
premium
account
Equity
reserve
Share
option
reserve
Other
reserve
(1)
Retained 
earnings Total
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.3 687.4 56.9 61.5 (8.5) 8.5 806.1
Profit for the year – – – – – 238.7 238.7
Issue of share capital – 0.2 – – – – 0.2
Dividends paid – – – – – (212.8) (212.8)
Share options charge – – – 1.0 5.6 (0.4) 6.2
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 (2.9) 34.0 838.4
Profit for the year – – – – – 202.7 202.7
Dividends paid – – – – – (224.1) (224.1)
Share options charge – – – 11.3 – 0.2 11.5
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 687.6 56.9 73.8 (2.9) 12.8 828.5
(1) The ‘other reserve’ relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 135
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 4.7 4.9
Net cash from operating activities 4.7 4.9
Cash flow from investing activities
Dividends received from Group companies 224.1 225.8
Net cash from investing activities 224.1 225.8
Cash flow from financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders (223.7) (212.6)
Interest paid on Convertible Bonds (5.0) (5.0)
Intercompany funding – (13.0)
Net cash used in financing activities (228.7) (230.6)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1
Movement in cash and cash equivalents
At the beginning of the year 1.7 1.6
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1
At the end of the year 1.8 1.7
Comprising:
Cash at bank and in hand 1.8 1.7
1.8 1.7 136  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The accounting policies and financial risk management policies and objectives, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group 
as set out in notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
B) INCOME STATEMENT
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of Companies Act 2006 and has not presented an income statement. The profit 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $202.7m (2014: $238.7m).
AUDITOR’S  REMUNERATION
During the year, the Company paid its external auditor $0.1m for statutory audit services (2014: $0.2m).
EMPLOYEE COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The average monthly number of people employed during the year was two (2014: one). Total staff costs for 2015 were $6.7m (2014: $0.5m). Full details of Directors’ 
remuneration and Directors’ share options and share awards are given in the Remuneration report.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Accounting for foreign currency transactions of the Company is consistent with that of the Group, which is disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
SHARE  CAPITAL
The share capital of the Company is disclosed in note 24 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
C) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments’ disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with that of the Group as set out in note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The differences between the Group and the Company in relation to intercompany balances are $79.0m (2014: $74.5m) amounts due from Group companies and 
$11.5m (2014: $4.6m) amounts due to Group companies, which eliminate on consolidation. The Directors consider the carrying value of the intercompany balances 
to approximate to their fair value.
D) RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FROM OPERATIONS
Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations:
($ in millions) 2015 2014
Profit for the year 202.7 238.7
Adjustments for:
 Taxation (credit)/charge (5.6) 7.8
 Financing costs
(1)
30.9 (17.1)
 Financing income (4.1) (3.6)
 Dividend receivable (224.1) (225.8)
 Non-cash employee benefit costs 1.9 (1.8)
Changes in net working capital:
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (0.5) (0.4)
 Increase in trade and other payables 3.5 7.1
Cash generated from operations 4.7 4.9
(1) The 2014 balance includes the impact of a non-recurring adjustment to interest on the Convertible Bonds. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 137
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Due to the technical nature of satellite communications and financial reporting we use a number of terms and abbreviations in this Annual Report and Accounts 
that are widely used within those industries but are less commonly used by our broader community of stakeholders. The principal ones are summarised below.
A
ACTIVE TERMINAL
A terminal that has been used to access commercial services at any time 
during the preceding 12 months and is registered with one of our services at 
the period end. It includes the average number of certain handheld terminals 
active on a daily basis during the final month of a period and excludes 
M2M terminals.
ALPHASAT
A satellite developed with the European Space Agency and launched in 2013. 
It supplements our Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation.
ATC
Ancillary Terrestrial Components provide communications services from ground 
stations either as stand-alone services or to complement satellite services.
ATG (ALSO CGC)
For our European Aviation Network, the satellite and CGC components are 
integrated and the CGC is not stand alone. ATG means the air to ground 
terrestrial component of the EAN.
B
BAND
The radio spectrum is divided into different bands which each cover a section 
of frequencies that are usually used for a similar purpose. Bands are allocated 
to specific uses at international level by the ITU and regulated at a national 
level by domestic organisations and governments. 
BGAN
Broadband Global Area Network is a high-speed data satellite network that 
spans the globe.
C
COMMISSIONED  TERMINAL
A terminal that is registered with one of our services at the period end.
CAGR
The Compound Annual Rate of Growth measures average annual growth 
over a period of time and is a key performance indicator for our MSS 
wholesale revenues.
CGU
A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that generates cash 
inflows largely independently from the other parts of the business and which 
represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored within the business.
THE COMPANY
Where we refer to the Company we are referring to Inmarsat plc, the holding 
company of the Inmarsat Group.
D
DEFINED BENEFIT AND DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES
Defined benefit pensions schemes provide post-employment benefits based 
on an employee’s final salary. Defined contribution pension schemes are 
schemes into which Inmarsat makes fixed contributions based on a percentage 
of an employee’s salary.
E
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is a key 
performance indicator used in the commercial and financial management 
of the business. It is a non-GAAP measure under IFRS.
F
FLEETBROADBAND
Our flagship maritime service providing voice and broadband data services 
across the world’s oceans.
G
GAAP
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is the standard financial reporting 
framework as defined by a body of accounting standards and other guidance 
used in a given jurisdiction (see IFRS).
GEOSTATIONARY  ORBIT
A circular geosynchronous orbit directly above the Earth’s equator. Satellites in 
geosynchronous orbit match their orbit to the orbit of the earth and so remain 
permanently in the same area of the sky.
GX
GlobalXpress is the first high-speed broadband satellite network to span the 
globe, from a single operator. It uses powerful beams able to reach small 
antennas on earth providing digital connections for aviation, land and 
maritime use.
GMDSS  Global Maritime Distress and Safety Service. Inmarsat is the only approved 
provider of this Maritime Safety Service by the International Maritime 
Organization (IMO).
GROUND  STATIONS
Our Ground Stations connect Inmarsat satellites to terrestrial networks and the 
internet. They are manned 24/7 in locations across the globe and continuously 
monitored from our network operations centre in London. 
THE GROUP
The Group refers to Inmarsat plc and all of its subsidiaries. We may also use 
‘we’ and ‘our’ in reference to the Group, depending on the context.
GSPS
Global Satellite Phone Services are our handheld products and services 
including IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2.
I
IAS OR IFRS
International Accounting Standards or International Financial Reporting 
Standards are the accounting standards issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. IFRS is also used to refer to international 
GAAP as a whole.
ICAO
International Civil Aviation Organization.
INMARSAT-2 (I-2), INMARSAT-3 (I-3), INMARSAT-4 (I-4),   INMARSAT-5 (I-5), INMARSAT-6 (I-6)
The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth generations of Inmarsat satellites. 
Individual satellites in each constellation are numbered F1, F2, F3, etc, so I-5 F2 
refers to the second satellite launched in the fifth generation of 
Inmarsat satellites.
ITU
International Telecommunications Union. 138  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
CONTINUED
K
KA-BAND
The frequency band used by our GX satellites, it has higher bandwidth 
than other bands allowing more data to be transmitted over the same 
satellite capacity. 
KU-BAND
A frequency band used by a number of our products and services that 
we procure from other satellite network operators to complement our 
own spectrum. 
L
L-BAND
The frequency band used by our Inmarsat-3 and Inmarsat-4 satellites and also 
by our planned Inmarsat-6 satellites.
LIGHTSQUARED
A Cooperation Agreement between Inmarsat, LightSquared LP, Skyterra 
(Canada) Inc. and LightSquared Inc. for the use of L -band in North America. 
On 11 February 2016 LightSquared announced a name change to Ligado 
Networks. We continue to refer to the company as LightSquared in these 
results, reflecting the position throughout 2015.
M
M2M
Machine-to-machine services and products.
MSS
Mobile Satellite Services.
MBPS
Megabits per second are the units used to measure data transfer rates in the 
satellite communications industry.
N
NETWORK AND SATELLITE OPERATIONS COSTS
The costs of operating our ground stations. 
O
OWN WORK CAPITALISED
Employee-related costs including salary and travel costs incurred in bringing 
property, plant and equipment into use. Own work capitalised is capitalised as 
part of the total cost of an asset.
R
RIGNET  INC
A distribution partner and the company that acquired the retail energy 
business that we disposed of in 2014.
S
SAS
Satellite Access Station is another term for a Ground Station.
S-BAND
The band width we are using for a high-speed broadband service under 
development for the EU aviation industry. The programme will see an Inmarsat 
S-band satellite fully integrated with a ground network. We also use the term 
S-band to refer to the S-band programme in general.
SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS
Carbon emissions as defined by the greenhouse gas protocol.
Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including travel.
SEP/INMARSAT  GATEWAY
Our Service Enablement Platform for GX delivering customer support, network 
services and an app store, it also opens up our networks to innovators through 
a developer portal. This is also now referred to as the Inmarsat Gateway.
SWIFTBROADBAND
A global service providing voice and high-speed data simultaneously through 
a single installation on an aircraft.
T
TÉLÉCOMS SANS FRONTI ÈRES (TSF)
The telecommunications relief aid organisation, it is a core beneficiary of our 
charitable support. 
TERMINALS
The consumer hardware used to receive and transmit voice and data from 
earth across our satellite network. It includes antenna enabled hardware such 
as satellite phones and on-board antennas.
V
VSAT
Very Small Aperture Terminals are small mobile two-way satellite antennas able 
to receive and transmit voice and broadband data to a satellite. VSAT services 
are typically charged using a fixed monthly fee.
X
XPRESSLINK
XpressLink is a fully-integrated Ku-band and L -band service with VSAT and 
FleetBroadband terminals. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 139
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
FIVE-YEAR  SUMMARY
($ in millions) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenues 1,274.1 1,285.9 1,261.9 1,337.8 1,408.5
EBITDA 726.0 701.0 648.8 694.7 854.4
EBITDA % 57.0% 54.5% 51.4% 51.9% 60.7%
Profit before tax 338.0 342.3 189.1 293.6 366.9
Profit for year 282.0 341.1 102.6 217.4 249.5
Net cash inflow from operating activities 705.5 644.8 597.1 659.5 881.6
Net cash used in investing activities (460.7) (424.4) (583.7) (499.1) (702.0)
Net cash used in financing activities (275.2) (156.4) (204.5) (11.1) (340.5)
Total assets 4,246.1 4,091.9 3,868.8 3,753.0 3,409.1
Total liabilities (2,996.2) (2,908.8) (2,821.0) (2,627.1) (2,328.0)
Shareholders’ equity 1,249.9 1,183.1 1,047.8 1,125.9 1,081.1
Notes:
Segovia is included in the results from 12 January 2010.
Ship Equip is included in the results from 28 April 2011.
NewWave Broadband is included in the results from 13 January 2012.
TC Comms is included in the results from 8 May 2013.
Globe Wireless is included in the results from 1 January 2014.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2016
5 May Annual General Meeting
12 May Ex-dividend date for 2015 final dividend
13 May Record date for 2015 final dividend
27 May 2015 final dividend payment date
August 2016 interim results
October 2016 interim dividend payment
REGISTERED OFFICE
99 City Road
London EC1Y 1AX
Tel: +44 (0)20 7728 1000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7728 1044
www.inmarsat.com
REGISTERED  NUMBER
4886072 England and Wales
AUDITOR
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
SOLICITORS
Clifford Chance LLP
10 Upper Bank Street
London E14 5JJ
BROKERS
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
London E14 5JP
Credit Suisse
1 Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
PO Box 4630
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA 140  /  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING   FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this Annual Report constitute ‘forward-looking 
statements’ within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and 
other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, 
or industry results, to be materially different from those projected in the 
forward-looking statements. These factors include: general economic and 
business conditions; changes in technology; timing or delay in signing, 
commencement, implementation and performance of programmes, or the 
delivery of products or services under them; structural change in the satellite 
industry; relationships with customers; competition; and ability to attract 
personnel. You are cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements, 
which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report.
Inmarsat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking 
statement to reflect any change in its expectations or any change in events, 
conditions or circumstances, except where it would be required to do so under 
applicable law.
Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived 
from sustainable sources  INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Inmarsat plc
99 City Road 
London 
EC1Y 1AX 
United Kingdom 
inmarsat.com
