 Inside this report
Strategic Report       2
 IDH at a Glance       4
 A Note from our CEO     8
 History & Milestones      12
 Egypt — Our Primary Market     14 
Hub, Spoke & Spike Business Model    16
 Internationally Accredited Test Portfolio   18
 Our Customers       20
 IDH’s Competitive Strengths    22
 Forward Looking Strategy     24
 Principal Risks, Uncertainties and their Mitigation 26
 Financial Review      30
Corporate Responsibility     34
Corporate Governance      38
 Board of Directors     40
 Chairman’s Report      42
Audit Committee Report     50
Remuneration Committee Report    56
Directors’ Report      60
Financial Statements      66
Independent Auditor’s Report    68 st RAte Gic 
Repo Rt
2 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
3 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   idH At  
A Gl Ance
Integrated Diagnostic Holding (IDH, or the Group) is the largest, fully 
integrated private sector diagnostics service provider in Egypt with a 
private chain market share of more than 50%*  by revenue. The Group 
also controls subsidiaries in Jordan and Sudan.
IDH is the largest fully integrated private sector provider of 
diagnostics services in Egypt, backed by an internationally 
accredited diagnostics service portfolio of over 1,000 di-
agnostic tests, a footprint spanning 314 branch labs as of 
December 2015, and a trusted reputation built on more than 
35 years of experience in the medical diagnostics industry. 
The Group employs a Hub, Spoke and Spike business model 
that is geared towards operational efficiency, allowing IDH to 
build a scalable platform and positioning the Group to cap-
ture future growth opportunities in fragmented markets.
HIGHl IGHt S oF 2015
up 18% on 2014 to EGP 
1,014.8 million amid im-
provements in all key op-
erational metrics.
Revenue S
of EGP 303.7 million, 
down 17% from 2014, 
largely as a result of costs 
associated with IDH’s list-
ing on the London Stock 
Exchange (LSE).
eBIt DA
of EGP 434.8 million, up 
16% from a normalised 
2014 figure of EGP 374.4 
million.
+
n o RmAl ISeD eBIt DA
of EGP 155.0 million, 
up 9.4% on 2014.
n et p Ro FIt
for the year of EGP 286.1 
million, up 18.5% on 2014.
n o RmAl ISeD 
ne t p Ro FIt
of US$0.06 (six U.S. cents) 
per share, equivalent to 
US$ 9 million in total.
ReCom men DeD 
FIn Al DIv IDen D
of EGP 0.97, up from EGP 
0.89 in 2014
eARn In GS 
peR SHARe
the new automated central 
lab, began operations in 
2Q2015 and is fully func-
tional, serving as a core 
element of the growth 
strategy going forward.
meGA lAB
* Most recent data available according to Frost & Sullivan Analysis conducted in 2013.
+  The adjustments to 2015 EBITDA are IPO costs of EGP 125.1 million and the write-off of costs of EGP 6.0 million relating to plans to set 
up operations in Qatar which are now not being pursued, the closure of Molecular Diagnostics Centre in Cairo, and surplus stationery 
included within inventory. 2014 figure adjusted for one-time IPO expenses of EGP 8.4 million. A detailed breakdown of non-recurring 
expenses is provided in the Financial Review section on pages 30-33 of this report. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  4 EGP 1 ,014.8 mn
in revenue in 2015, up 18%  
on 2014
SIX
key brands with strong 
awareness in underserved 
markets
+1,000
internationally accredited 
diagnostic tests offered
Successful IPO
listed on the London Stock 
Exchange on 6 May 2015
More than 35-year
track record at the subsid-
iary level
314
operational branch labs as 
at December 2015
23.8 million
tests completed across the 
Group in 2015
5.8 million
patients served across the 
Group in 2015
EGP 154.9 mn
in net income in 2015, up 
9.4% on 2014
Through our Al Borg, Al Mokhtabar, Biolab, Ultralab and Al Mokhtabar Sudan brands, the Group offers more than 1,000 
diagnostic tests, ranging from basic tests (such as glucose testing for diabetes) to molecular tests for hepatitis and 
highly specialized DNA tests.
Immunolo Gy RADIolo Gy HemAt olo Gy
en Do CRIn olo Gy mol eCu l AR BIol o Gy
Cyto Gen et ICS HAt op At Hol o Gy mICRo BIol o Gy
Cl In ICAl CHemISt Ry
IDH’s core brands include Al Borg 
and Al Mokhtabar in Egypt, as well 
as Biolab in Jordan and Ultralab and 
Al Mokhtabar Sudan in Sudan. We 
also operate the Medical Genetics 
Centre brand in Egypt.
 
Egypt is the Group’s principal mar-
ket, where we operate primarily 
through our Al Borg and Al Mokh-
tabar businesses, each of which is 
a well-known and market-leading 
brand with a loyal following. Togeth-
er, our Egyptian brands accounted 
for 90% of IDH’s revenue in 2015. 
The Group’s other businesses repre-
sented 10% of IDH’s revenue in the 
year ending 31 December 2015.
ou R BRAn DS
ou R SeRv ICeS
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  5
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements FIn An CIAl pe RFo RmAn Ce
Indicator Units 2014 2015
Operational
Number of Tests million 22.3 23.8
Number of Patients million 5.6 5.8
Number of Labs # 288 314
Tests per Patient # 3.98 4.11
Financial
Revenue EGP million 860.2 1,014.8
Per Patient EGP 154.0 175.2
Per Test EGP 38.7 42.6
Per Lab EGP million 3.0 3.5
EBITDA EGP million 366.0 303.7
Normalised EBITDA* EGP million 374.4 434.8
Net Profit EGP million 141.7 155.0
Normalised Net Profit EGP million 241.5 286.1
Earnings per share EGP 0.89 0.97 
Revenue By Geo GRApHy 2014 An D 2015 Revenue By t y pe In 2 014 An D 2015
89%
7%
4%
90%
7%
3%
% of total 
revenue in 
2015
39%
61%
% of total 
revenue in 
2015
  Egypt       Jordan       Sudan  Walk in        Contract
*  The adjustments to 2015 EBITDA are IPO costs of EGP 125.1 million and the write-off of costs of EGP 6.0 million relating to plans 
to set up operations in Qatar which are now not being pursued, the closure of Medical Diagnostics Centre in Cairo, and surplus 
stationery included within inventory. 2014 figure adjusted for one-time IPO expenses of EGP 8.4 million. A detailed breakdown of 
non-recurring expenses is provided in the Financial Review section on page 30-33 of this report.
% of total 
revenue in 
2014
46%
54%
% of total 
revenue in 
2014
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  6 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  7
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements A Note from 
o ur Ceo
Fellow shareholders, 
It is an honour to present you our first ever Annual Report as 
a publicly traded company.
 
Born of a merger in 2012 between Al Mokhtabar and Al Borg 
Laboratories, Integrated Diagnostics Holding (IDH) is one of the 
largest diagnostics groups in emerging markets. From modest 
beginnings over 35 years ago, we have grown to become the larg-
est private sector and fully integrated diagnostics service pro-
vider in Egypt, with our share of the private chain market total-
ling more than 50% by revenue as per the latest data available*. 
We also operate in Jordan and Sudan and are considering ad-
ditional opportunities to expand beyond our present geography.
 
Today, we offer more than 1,000 international standard di-
agnostic tests, and in the year ended 31 December 2015 we 
performed more than 23.8 million tests for over 5.8 million 
patients. That represents 7% annual growth in total tests and 
4% annual growth in patients served. This is reflected in an 
increase in revenue of 18% to EGP 1,014.8 million. Careful at-
tention to our cost structure saw this top line performance 
carry to our bottom line despite incurring expenses related 
to our listing on the London Stock Exchange and expenses 
related to the ramp-up of operations at the Mega Lab. Net 
profit for 2015 rose 9.4% on the previous year to close at EGP 
155.0 million. Normalising for one-off expenses related to the 
Group’s listing on the LSE and for write-offs relating to plans 
Dr. Hend El Sherbini
* Most recent data available according to Frost & Sullivan Analysis 
conducted in 2013.
IDH ANNu Al re port 2015  8 to establish operations in Qatar, normalised net profit would 
have risen 18.4% to EGP 286.1 million in 2015.
2015 was a milestone year on multiple fronts. In May of 2015, 
we began the next stage of our growth as we transitioned 
from being a privately owned company into a public corpora-
tion. Our IPO on the London Stock Exchange was 11.2 times 
oversubscribed, indicating heavy institutional investment 
appetite for a leading healthcare business with an expand-
ing Middle East and North Africa (MENA) footprint. The IPO, 
which offered 50% of IDH shares, was the first ever listing of 
an Egyptian healthcare business on the LSE.
We have begun our journey as a quoted company with a 
solid legacy: A financially sound business with good oppor-
tunities to grow, governed by a newly formed board. This 
board will take the business forward and develop our gov-
ernance, reporting and other systems that we will continue 
to develop in the years ahead. Our goal in doing so is to be-
come voluntarily compliant with such aspects of the 2014 
U.K. Corporate Governance Code as are appropriate to the 
size of our business and our state of development. 
Operationally, 2015 was key for our growth with the inaugu-
ration of the Mega Lab, our new state of the art central labo-
ratory, which nearly doubles our existing capacity and offers 
cost saving opportunities. Mega Lab enables us to efficiently 
deploy our Hub, Spoke, and Spike business model, allowing us 
to expand with comparatively low capital costs and continue 
to improve our operational efficiency. We are now seeking ac-
creditation from the College of American Pathologists (CAP) 
for Mega Lab; the “ A” labs Mega Lab replaces were previously 
the only such facilities in Egypt with CAP accreditation.
 
Critically, the Mega Lab will support IDH’s growth by allowing 
us to roll out capital efficient “C” Labs more rapidly. Effective 
cost management and the simultaneous expansion of our diag-
nostic services will also drive growth going forward. This strat-
egy is already starting to bear fruit, with our throughput capac-
ity nearly doubling with the inauguration of the Mega Lab. 
 
Whilst we recognize the importance of global standard tech-
nologies and laboratory procedures, continued investment in 
our people is a key driver of sustainable growth. Our employ-
ees engage in ongoing professional education, and the quality 
of our services is ensured by our quality assurance function. 
As we expand as a Group, so do our numbers: Our headcount 
grew 7% to 4,323 in 2015, and 30% of our staff are women. We 
also extend bonuses, healthcare and other insurance, and 
benefits to all members of our staff across the Group.
Gove Rn An Ce
Whilst our Chairman, Lord St John of Bletso, touches on this in 
some detail in his Chairman’s Report in this document, I would 
like to stress that management is very supportive of the Board’s 
view that IDH should aim to voluntarily comply with elements 
  We have begun our journey as a quoted company 
with a solid legacy: A financially sound business 
with good opportunities to grow, governed by a 
newly formed board. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  9
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements of the 2014 U.K. Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). We 
have begun implementing a framework that is leading us to this 
objective. I further note that our Directors bring IDH a wealth of 
experience in healthcare, investments and MENA markets. Our 
Chairman’s Report on Corporate Governance, as well as reports 
from our Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and our 
Directors’ Report, appear in this document beginning on page 42.
pRop oSeD DIv IDen D An D DIv IDen D pol ICy
We are delighted to propose paying a final dividend of six (6) 
U.S. cents per share (totalling US$ 9 million in aggregate) to 
shareholders in respect of the financial year ending 31 Decem-
ber 2015. The amount of the dividend has been calculated with 
reference to three important factors: historical profit for the 
year, anticipated financial needs agreed in the current budget, 
and the availability of U.S. dollars for payment depending on 
market conditions in IDH’s markets from time to time. Having 
assessed what the IDH Board of Directors considers to be ex-
cess cash, we will look to declare the majority of that surplus.
Our dividend policy is driven by the strong cash generative na-
ture of our business and its asset-light strategy. We believe that 
the fundamentals of our business will enable us to have a con-
sistent and growing dividend strategy in the future. As this is 
our first year as a quoted company, we intend to declare a final 
dividend only and not to declare an interim dividend. We will, 
however, review this policy in the future. 
outlook
Going forward, our goal is to enhance our market position 
across our current suite of diagnostic services and geogra-
phies. In particular, we believe the excess capacity afforded 
by the Mega Lab will allow us to further penetrate the cor-
porate (B2B) market in Egypt. In parallel, we see significant 
opportunity to write a similar success story by penetrating 
the very fragmented radiology market without impacting 
return on investment. This would effectively transform IDH 
into a one stop shop diagnostics provider.
Securing hospital business is another key target for 2016. 
Hospitals carry out some 40 million tests per year and we see 
opportunities in both outsourcing contracts for tests to be 
performed at the Mega Lab as well as opportunities to win 
management contracts and concessions. We also expect our 
businesses in our non-Egyptian markets to continue to grow 
(albeit at lower rates than in Egypt) and we are looking at 
other expansion opportunities in the Middle East and Africa.
Innovation and efficiency lie at the heart of our continued 
business success. By investing in the training of our people, 
continuously updating technology in our labs, expanding into 
underdeveloped markets, and maintaining our diligent cost 
management culture, we will grow our business and continue to 
provide high quality , cost efficient medical laboratory services. 
W e are honoured to have you on this journey with us.
Dr. Hend el-Sherbini
Chief Executive Officer
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  10 Going forward, our goal 
is to enhance our market 
position across our current 
suite of diagnostic services 
and geographies.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  11
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements Histo RY & 
milestones
IDH’s development story dates back  the establishment of 
Dr. Moamena Kamel Lab (MK Lab) in Egypt in 1979, and 
later Al Borg Labs in 1990. Over the years the two competi-
tors built well-known and market-leading diagnostic ser-
vices brands in Egypt, and established a strong and loyal 
patient following.  In 2008 IDH Caymans was created when 
the UAE based private equity firm Abraaj Capital acquired 
more than 75% of Al Borg. Over the next several years the 
IDH made a number of acquisitions and expanded its ser-
vice offerings and geographical footprint. In 2012, the IDH 
acquired Al Borg’s main competitor, Al Mokhtabar, creating 
Egypt’s largest diagnostic laboratory business.
eSt ABl ISHment 
oF mk lAB
•	 dr. moamena 
Kamel, professor 
of immunology at 
cairo university, 
founded the mK 
l ab, which merged 
with Al mokhtabar 
in 2004.
IDH eSt ABl ISHeD 
By A BRAAj •	 Abraaj acquired 
76.8% of Al Borg 
to establish idH 
caymans,
•	 Branches (a): 127
ex pAn SIon 
oF pRoDu Ct 
oFFeRIn G
•	 Acquisition of 55% 
stake in medical Ge-
netics centre
•	 increase of stake in Al 
Borg to 80% post its 
delisting
•	 Branches (a): 195
Al Bo RG IS 
Foun DeD
•	 f ounded by a group 
of four doctors, 
Al	 Bor g 	is 	the	 first 	
medical laboratory 
in egypt to have an 
effective hub, spoke 
and spike model.
ex pAn SIon o F 
IDH
•	 Acquisition of mo-
lecular diagnostics 
centre
•	 Branches (a): 154
BuIl DIn G 
In FRASt Ru Ct u Re 
An D SCAl e
•	 penetration in sudan 
and Jordan comes with 
acquisition of ultralab 
and Biolab, respectively.
•	 Branches (a): 210
1979 1991 2008 2009 2010 2011
(a) Branches refer to operations of Al Borg and Al Mokhtabar. (b) Branches refer to IDH Group
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  12 CReAt In G A 
l eADIn G pl At FoRm
•	 Acquisition of Al mokh-
tabar (Al Borg’s biggest 
competitor)
•	 increase of stake in Al 
Borg to 99.3%
•	 Branches (a): 214
Su CCeSSFu l 
Com plet Ion o F Ipo 
on l Se
•	 standard listing on the l on-
don stock exchange (lse )
•	 50% offering at us $ 4.45 
per share
•	 market capitalization of 
us $ 667.5 million
•	 idH closes the year 
having added 28 new 
branches.
Inte GRAt Ion 
An D Fu Rt HeR 
exp An SIon
•	 establishes the larg-
est automated lab in 
egypt
•	 Div ersifies 	into	adja-
cent medical services.
•	 Branches (b): 262 
(2013); 288 (2014)
•	 initial operations 
begin at megalab
2012
2013
2014
JUNE 
2015
MAy 
2015
DECEMBER
2015
The Group is in a strong competitive position given 
its 35-year track record, its trusted brands with over 
314 branches covering a wide geographic presence.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  13
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements eGYpt – ouR 
pRincip Al mARKet
The Egyptian diagnostic industry (EDI), where IDH generates the 
majority of its revenues, can be characterized as having strong 
structural growth drivers, high barriers to entry and being a highly 
fragmented market.
*
The EDI can be broadly divided into public and private 
sector infrastructure, with the latter being further di-
vided into labs attached to private hospitals and inde-
pendent standalone labs (chains and single labs). The 
most recent data* available shows that as of FY13, there 
were between 12 and 15 standalone lab chains with an 
estimated 550 branches, in addition to some 5,500 single 
labs spread across the country. Standalone chains ac-
counted for c.40% of the EGP 2.6 billion private market 
in 2013, with a projected CAGR of 18-20% until 2018.
 
With 90 million people, Egypt is the most populous coun-
try in the MENA region. In terms of demographics, it hosts 
a large proportion of elderly people, a significant arm of 
the structural growth drivers for the EDI. The population is 
also marked by a rising prevalence of diseases command-
ing high test volumes, indicating an existing and expand-
ing need gap than in more developed markets.
 
While the EDI enjoys strong structural growth drivers, there 
are high barriers to entry because:
•	 IDH’s now decommissioned A labs possessed ac-
creditation from the College of American Pathologists 
(CAP), underscoring its high quality testing capabilities 
to attract contract clients. The Group is pursuing ac-
creditation of the Mega Lab in 2016;
•	 IDH has a number of solid brands and a good reputa-
tion that ensures patient loyalty; 
•	 IDH has a wide geographic presence to cater to the 
fragmented nature of the regional market; 
•	 IDH has a strong relationship with key stakeholders 
such as physicians, patients and hospitals.
The Group is in a strong competitive position given its 35-
year track record, its trusted brands with over 314 branches 
covering a wide geographic presence and, most important-
ly, an established business model that serves as its platform 
for growth in Egypt’s formidable diagnostic playing field.
IDH derives 90% of its revenues from Egypt, where the eco-
nomic growth rate slowed in 2015 as a result of a multiplicity of 
factors that, combined, contributed to a significant shortage 
of foreign exchange in the market. These factors included low-
er revenues from the nation’s primary foreign exchange earn-
ers. In particular, Suez Canal tolls fell as global trade slowed 
and low oil prices made it more economical for ships to sail 
around the Horn of Africa, and a nascent recovery in the tour-
ism sector was extinguished after the crash in Sinai of a Rus-
sian jetliner. With demand for foreign exchange significantly 
outpacing supply, Egypt suffered a divergence between official 
and parallel market rates for foreign exchange (FX).
With 90 million people, Egypt 
is the most populous country 
in the MENA region... hosting a 
large proportion of elderly peo-
ple, a structural growth driver 
for the diagnostic industry
* Frost & Sullivan, 2014
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  14 Accreditation of Facilities
Attracting contract clients requires accred-
ited, high quality testing capabilities.
Brand & Reputation
Patients are loyal to leading brands with a 
strong track record.
Market Reach
Fragmented market necessitates a wide 
geographic presence to allow for broad 
customer reach.
Relationship with Key Stakeholders
Building a scalable platform requires strong 
relationship with stakeholders such as 
physicians, patients and hospitals.
BARRIeRS t o en t Ry
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  15
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements HuB, spoKe & spiKe 
Business model
The Group deploys a Hub, Spoke and Spike business 
model in which our Mega Lab functions as the Hub that is 
equipped with all offered services, tests (particularly ad-
vanced diagnostic tools) for samples collected by B and C 
labs. The B labs (spokes) are capable of processing routine 
tests that effectively reduce traffic to the Mega Lab where 
warranted, and the C labs (spikes) function as collection 
centres that increase our reach to clients nationwide.
 
The capital efficient model is supported by a strong op-
erational backbone, giving IDH the ability to offer a broad 
range of tests and enabling the Group to “plug and play” 
new C labs for further expansion. The addition of new and 
esoteric test facilities at Mega Lab provides a one stop 
solution for customers which, combined with package of-
ferings, increases tests per patient. Replacing the two A 
labs, the Mega Lab houses additional machines that have 
increased automation and significant spare capacity to al-
low for future growth in the business.
 
The Hub Spoke and Spike business model works well in 
an industry that is characterized by high barriers to entry 
that benefit existing organised players. IDH is well posi-
tioned: it has economies of scale, has a solid brand and 
reputation, wide geographic coverage in an otherwise 
fragmented market, internationally accredited facilities, 
and a sound relationship with key stakeholders. It is, in 
summary, a scalable platform. 
meGAl AB (Hu B)
•	 The newly established Mega Lab serves as IDH’s diag-
nostic hub and is the largest automated lab in Egypt, 
equipped with the latest technology and providing the 
full suite of diagnostic tests.
•	 A majority of equipment is provided at no cash cost in 
return for IDH agreeing to purchase a minimum vol-
ume of kits from the equipment supplier.
•	 Specialty tests from IDH subsidiaries are shipped to the 
Mega Lab in Egypt and results are retrieved electronically.
•	 Cost synergies on kits, logistics and quality.
 B-l ABS (Spoke S)
•	 B-labs serve as IDH’s spokes that work to reduce traffic 
to Mega Lab by processing routine, onsite tests includ-
ing chemistry, parasitology and haematology.
•	 Higher capacity and larger in size than IDH’s C-labs.
•	 As at 31 December 2015 there were eight B labs in Egypt 
and six in Sudan.
C-l ABS (SpIk eS)
•	 Collection centres that allow for expansion of reach.
•	 Conduct basic tests including urine, stool, semen, ESR 
and pregnancy tests.
•	 314 operational branches as at 31 December 2015
IDH operates an asset light business model, allowing for 
expansion in a capital efficient manner and geared toward 
operational efficiency.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  16 STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
17 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   in te Rn At ion Al l Y Acc Redited 
t est poRtfolio
IDH’s comprehensive product portfolio covers immunol-
ogy, radiology, haematology, endocrinology, clinical chem-
istry, molecular biology, cytogenetic, histopathology, and 
microbiology. Across its brand portfolio, IDH maintains in-
ternational quality accreditations with a stringent internal 
audit process to ensure best in class service.
ISo
ISO accreditation requires an initial inspection of labora-
tory practices, calibration and medical analysis by an ac-
creditation body. For Al Mokhtabar, this accreditation body 
was the Egyptian Accreditation Council, for Al Borg it was 
the Swedish Board for Accreditation and Conformity As-
sessment and American Systems Registrar (ASR) and for 
Biolab it was the Jordanian Accreditation System (JAS). The 
inspection involves the clinical chemistry area, the virology 
unit, the haematology unit and the general laboratory man-
agement practice. The accreditation’s standards include 
both management and technical requirements and there 
are follow-up inspections once every two years.
Colle Ge o F AmeRICAn pAt Hol o GISt S (CAp)
Unlike ISO accreditation, CAP certification is awarded 
to individual labs rather than the Group’s operation as a 
whole. Prior to its decommissioning, Al Mokhtabar’s A Lab 
was the only private laboratory in Egypt to have been certi-
fied by CAP . The Group is currently seeking CAP accredita-
tion for its new Mega Lab facility following its inauguration 
in June 2015; the present expectation is that the process will 
be completed during 2016. The CAP standards track four 
aspects of laboratory operations:
•	 Directors and personnel: The laboratory must be staffed 
with a sufficient number of personnel and the lines of 
authority should be well defined so that the directors 
can properly fulfil their responsibilities.
•	 Physical resources: There must be sufficient resources, in-
cluding physical space, testing instruments, reagents, in-
formation processing and communication systems, ven-
tilation, storage and waste disposal facilities and public 
utilities. Furthermore, there must be sufficient safeguards 
against hazardous conditions to ensure patient safety.
•	 Quality management: The laboratory must have poli-
cies and procedures in place to ensure quality testing 
and patient safety. These should include the validation 
of test systems, analytic quality control, quality man-
agement of pre- and post-analytic processes, proficien-
cy testing, human resource management, information 
management, ongoing quality improvement and ap-
propriate communication procedures.
•	 Administrative requirements: The laboratory must 
maintain appropriate records and adhere to CAP cer-
tification requirements and certain other policies, and 
will be subject to onsite inspections, interim inspec-
tions and interim self-assessments.
 
The CAP certification is renewed every two years after thor-
ough inspection of the laboratory in question.
QuAl It y A SSu RAn Ce
IDH’s quality assurance program serves as the internal audit 
function of the Group, ensuring that all internal diagnostic 
processes, lab testing procedures and results analyses are ac-
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  18 curate. The quality assurance ensures that all the standards 
of the CAP and ISO accreditations are met by inspecting 
hardware and equipment, ensuring compliance with proce-
dure manuals, inspecting the accuracy of results, and admin-
istering competency assessments for employees. The inter-
nal audit team also maintains a specific audit checklist for 
the basic and routine tests conducted in the Group’s C Labs, 
including conformity of process; testing the competency of 
employees through oral, observational, practical and written 
tests; and conducting managerial audits to assess the labs’ 
management and administrative efficiency.
employee tRAI n In G
The Group views education as an essential means of ensur-
ing quality across its laboratories. To help develop the skills 
of its employees, the Group has a dedicated training facility 
in Cairo with two training laboratories. As at 31 December 
2015, the training centre employed one director, three full-
time specialists, four administrators and 25 part-time in-
structors.  The centre provides training to around 120-170 
employees per month, including doctors, chemists, sales 
personnel and administrators. Training to be provided is 
determined based on performance KPIs, audit reports, 
management reviews, competency assessment reports and 
customer complaints. IDH’s employee training is divided 
into four modules: New Employee Training, Competency 
Based, Need Based and Practical Re-Training.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  19
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements ouR 
custome Rs
IDH serves two principal customer groups, namely contract based (cor-
porate entities) and walk-in clients (individuals). Within each of those 
categories, the Group also offers a house call service as well as a lab to 
lab service for its contract segment.
Cont RACt Cl Ient S
 IDH’s contract clients, who in 2015 represented 61% of the 
Group’s revenues, include institutions such as unions, pri-
vate insurance companies and corporations who enter into 
one year, renewable contracts at agreed rates per test and 
on a per client basis. During 2015, IDH served approximate-
ly 4.1 million patients under those contracts, performing a 
total of 18.2 million tests, with no single contract client con-
tributing more than 5% of revenue.
Within the contract segment, IDH also provides lab to lab 
services for hospitals and other laboratories that are not 
able to process certain tests in house. IDH views the lab to 
lab business as a potential growth area for the future.
WAl k- In Cl Ient S
IDH derived 39% of its revenue in 2015 from walk-in clients, 
representing 30% of total patients served (or 1.8 million walk-
in clients). As expected, number of walk-in patients declined 
in 2015 as more patients shift to corporate arrangements, in 
line with the long-term market trend. Nevertheless, IDH has 
successively increased walk-in revenues by growing its average 
revenue per test, driven by a both price increases and a bet-
ter mix of test types. As IDH’s markets develop and become 
more institutional markets, more patients will be performing 
pathology tests under corporate agreements or health insur-
ance. This trend plays to IDH’s strength as having the best 
economies of scale in the market. 
 
A key strategy of the Group is to continue to target walk-
in clients through marketing campaigns focused on the 
Group’s brands as well as educational campaigns aimed 
at increasing awareness of the importance of medical 
testing and preventive medicine. Additionally, the Group 
also offers a number of check-up packages and promo-
tions aimed at increasing the number of tests per patient 
and encouraging repeat visits. These packages and pro-
motions include a diabetes treatment program, pregnan-
cy check-up program and weight management program 
among others.
BReAk DoWn o F tot Al Revenue
Type
% of total 2014 
revenues
% of total 2015 
revenues
Contracts – Unions 16% 18%
Contracts – Banks 2% 2%
Contracts – Corporate 4% 18%
Contracts – Government Institutions 15% 4%
Contracts – Hospitals 4% 5%
Contracts – Public Insurance 5% 7%
Contracts – Medical Care 8% 7%
Contracts as % of total revenue 54% 61%
Walk-ins as % of total revenue 46% 39%
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  20 2014 2015
Contract Clients
Revenue (EGP mn) 468.0 614.6
Patients (‘000) 3,599 4,074
Test (‘000) 15,721 18,173
Walk-in Clients
Revenue (EGP mn) 392.2 400.2
Patients (‘000) 1,986 1,718
Tests (‘000) 6,531 5,659
Total Revenue 
(EGP million)
860.2 1,014.8
Total Patients (‘000) 5,585 5,792
Total Tests (‘000) 22,252 23,832
Revenue per Patient (EGP) 154.03 175.2
Revenue per Test (EGP) 38.66 42.58
IDH Revenue By t y pe
46% 39%
54% 61%
2015 2014
  Walk in        Contract
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  21
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements idH’s competitive 
st Ren Gt Hs
IDH’s competitive strengths have strongly positioned it for future growth 
within the diagnostic space and adjacent services, presenting the Group 
as an attractive investment opportunity with compelling fundamentals 
in its fast growing, underserved markets.
Strength Description
Exposure to resilient markets
IDH’s markets are characterised by having structural growth drivers and an un-
derserved diagnostic services demand. Moreover, the Group’s industry has high 
barriers to entry such as the need to establish brand and reputation, accredit fa-
cilities, achieve economies of scale, cover a wide geographic footprint and main-
tain strong relationships with key stakeholders, all of which IDH enjoys.
Established business model
IDH’s low capital-intensive hub, spoke and spike business model allows for sig-
nificant organic network expansion over a wide geographic area. Additionally, 
this model enhances the consistency of the Group’s safety and testing procedures 
and performance as more tests are conducted through its established, centralized 
Mega Lab with modern, high-capacity equipment and significant throughput.
Experienced, entrepreneurial man-
agement
The Group has a highly experienced management team with decades of experi-
ence in the healthcare sector. Furthermore, IDH’s world-class Board of Directors 
brings years of healthcare, MENA region and investment experience to the table.
Strong, unlevered balance sheet and 
cash generation capacity
The Group has enjoyed a strong track record of profitable growth, even through 
adverse economic conditions, producing a normalised EBITDA margin of 43% 
in 2015 (2014: 43.5%). In parallel, IDH’s asset light business model translates 
into minimal borrowings and allowing for significant strategic flexibility.
Substantial opportunities to expand 
to adjacent diagnostic categories
The Group is presently exploring opportunities to expand into adjacent verti-
cals including imaging, positioning it to become a one stop diagnostics provider 
for all major tests.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  22 1 2 3 4 5
f ormidable 
pla ying 	 field 	
with structural 
growth drivers, 
high barriers 
to entry and 
a highly frag-
mented mar-
ket
established 
business 
model with 
strong brand 
recognition 
and market 
leading posi-
tion
experienced, 
entrepreneurial 
and longstand-
ing manage-
ment team and 
adherence to 
best corporate 
governance 
practice
idH is strongly positioned for future growth within the 
diagnostics space and adjacent services
strong unlev-
ered balance 
sheet and 
strong cash 
generation
Allowing for 
capitalization 
on growth driv-
ers
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  23
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements f oRwARd l oo Kin G 
st RAte GY
IDH’s forward looking strategy rests on leveraging its es-
tablished business model to achieve five key strategic goals, 
namely: (1) continue to expand customer reach; (2) increase 
the number of test per patient by expanding the group’s ser-
vices portfolio; (3) use the Mega Lab’ s enlarged capacity to pro-
vide services to third party labs and hospitals; (4) introduce 
new medical services by leveraging the Group’s network and 
reputable brand position; and (5) expand into new geographic 
markets through selective, value accretive acquisitions.
ex pAn D Cu St ome R ReACH
The Group intends to use its scalable, low capital intensive 
business model to quickly and efficiently open new labs and 
expand geographically. A wider geographic reach will increase 
accessibility for customers, thereby expanding the Group’s 
customer base. Furthermore, IDH’s add-on services, such as 
house calls, e-services and results delivery, make the Group’s 
services easier to use, and therefore more attractive, for pro-
spective and existing patients.
In CReASe t eSt S pe R pAt Ient
IDH intends to expand its laboratory service offerings and 
broaden the range of specialized and advanced testing ser-
vices offered, thereby taking full advantage of the anticipated 
increased demand for private healthcare services.
t HIRD pARty Se Rv ICeS
The Group plans to capitalize on its increased capacity award-
ed by the new Mega Lab and expand lab to lab services, con-
sequently drive further economies of scale. The Mega Lab will 
also enable IDH to process advanced and esoteric testing that 
most laboratories in Egypt cannot. Because the market is con-
siderably fragmented, the Group can offer these advanced and 
esoteric services to other laboratories at competitive prices 
while still generating substantial margins.
DIv eRSIFy In to n eW meDICAl S eRv ICeS
As the medical testing market in Egypt evolves from a single 
doctor oriented model to a branded chain model, the Group 
sees an opportunity to offer medical services in the Egyptian 
market that are not currently being offered by any private 
healthcare provider on a large scale.
ex pAn D Geo GRApHICAlly 
The Group is targeting further expansion through acquisition 
in the diagnostic space and adjacent segments in Egypt and 
other markets. IDH is considering expansion into the Gulf Co-
operation Council and North Africa, as well as opportunisti-
cally in sub-Saharan Africa.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  24 STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
25 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   pRincip Al RisKs, 
un ce Rt Ainties An d 
t HeiR miti GAti on
As in any corporation, IDH has exposure to risks and uncer-
tainties that may adversely affect its performance. IDH Chair-
man Lord St John of Bletso has emphasized that ownership 
of the risk matrix is sufficiently important to the Group’s long 
term success that it must be equally shared by the Board and 
by senior management. 
While no system can mitigate every risk — and some risks, as 
at the country level, are largely without potential mitigants 
— the Group has in place processes, procedures and baseline 
assumptions that provide mitigation. The Board and senior 
management agree that the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group include:
Spe CIFIC RISk mIt IGAt Ion
Count Ry RISk — po l It ICAl & S eCu RIt y
Egypt and the wider MENA region, where the Group operates, have 
experienced political volatility since 2011 and continue to experi-
ence occasional terrorist incidents and occasional civil disorder. 
See mitigants for “Country / regional risk — Economic, ” below. 
Count Ry / ReGIon Al RISk — eConom IC
The Group is subject to the economic conditions of Egypt specifi-
cally and, to a lesser extent, those of the wider MENA region. Egypt 
accounted for c.90% of our revenues in 2015 (2014: 89%).
As with country risk, this is largely not subject to mitigation. In 
both political / security and economic risk, we do note that IDH 
operates in a defensive industry and that the business continued 
to grow year on year through two revolutions. 
Fo ReIGn Cu RRen Cy RISk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk with respect 
to its impact on pricing of supplies. The majority of supplies 
are priced and paid in EGP , but given they are imported, their 
price will vary with the rate of exchange between the EGP 
and foreign currencies. In addition, a portion of supplies are 
priced and paid in foreign currencies. The Group is also ex -
posed to this risk in regards to foreign currency availability 
and remittance of dividends abroad.
Furthermore, Egypt is presently experiencing a foreign cur-
rency shortage that is impacting the ability of companies to 
source foreign exchange. The Central Bank of Egypt deval-
ued the Egyptian pound in March 2016, and there is an ongo-
ing risk of devaluation against the U.S. dollar and other key 
foreign currencies.
Cost of supplies (almost all imported, either directly by IDH or by 
third parties) was equivalent to c.17% of revenues in 2015 (2014: 
19%). Management believes that it can mitigate the effects of de-
valuation through a combination of improved pricing and cost 
efficiencies.
Only 12% of IDH’s cost of supplies (c.2% of revenues) are pay-
able in U.S. dollars, minimising the Group’s exposure to FX scar-
city and, in part, devaluation. IDH could, however, face price 
changes or negotiations with suppliers.
Despite being a cash-generative business, IDH’s ability to source 
foreign exchange is limited by caps on cash deposits of foreign cur-
rency at banks in Egypt. This can put limitation on the Group’s level 
of U.S. dollar dividends. The Board is accordingly studying alterna-
tives through which to make better use of excess local currency cash.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  26 Spe CIFIC RISk mIt IGAt Ion
RemIt t An Ce o F DIv IDen D ReGu l At Ion S & 
RepAt RIAt Ion o F pRo FIt 
The Group’s ability to remit dividends abroad may be adversely 
affected by the imposition of remittance restrictions where, 
under Egyptian law, companies must obtain government clear-
ance to transfer dividends overseas and are subject to higher 
taxation on payment of dividends.
As a foreign investor in Egypt, IDH does not have issues with 
the repatriation of dividends, but is exposed to risk in the form 
of cost and availability of — as well as deposit restrictions on — 
foreign exchange in the markets in which the Group operates, 
particularly Egypt.
l eGAl & ReGu l At o Ry RISk t o t He Bu SIn eSS
The Group’s business is subject to, and affected by, extensive, 
stringent and frequently changing laws and regulations, as 
well as frequently changing enforcement regimes, in each of 
the countries in which it operates. Moreover, as a significant 
player in the Egyptian private clinical laboratory market, the 
Group is subject to antitrust and competition related restric-
tions, as well as the possibility of investigation by the Egyptian 
Competition Authority.
The Group’s general counsel and the quality assurance team 
work together to keep IDH abreast of, and in compliance with, 
both legislative and regulatory changes. 
On the antitrust front, the private laboratory segment (of which 
IDH is a part) accounts for a small proportion of the total mar-
ket, which consists of small private labs, private chain labs and 
large governmental and quasi-governmental institutions.
QuAl It y Con t Rol RISk S
Failure to establish and comply with appropriate quality stand-
ards when performing testing and diagnostics services could re-
sult in litigation and liability for the Group and could materially 
and adversely affect its reputation and results of operations. This 
is particularly key as the Group depends heavily on maintaining 
good relationships with and acceptance by healthcare profes-
sionals who prescribe and recommend the Group’s services.
The Group’s quality assurance (QA) function ensures compli-
ance with best practices across all medical diagnostic func-
tions. All laboratory staff participate in ongoing professional 
education with quality assurance emphasized at each juncture. 
The head of quality assurance for the Group is a member of senior 
management team at the IDH level, which meets weekly to review 
recent developments, plan strategy, and discuss issues of concern 
to the Group as a whole.
pRICIn G pReSSu Re In A Co mpet It Iv e, ReGu l At eD 
env IRonme nt
The Group faces pricing pressure from various third party pay-
ers that could materially and adversely affect its revenue. Pric-
ing may be restrained in cases by recommended or mandatory 
fees set by government ministries and other authorities.
This is an external risk for which there exist few mitigants.
In the event there is escalation of price competition between mar-
ket players, the Group sees its wide national footprint as a miti-
gant: More than 60% of our revenue is generated by servicing con-
tract clients (private insurer, unions and corporations) who prefer 
IDH’s national network to patchworks of local players. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  27
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements Spe CIFIC RISk mIt IGAt Ion
HIGH l evel o F Goo DWIl l An D o t HeR In t An GIBl e 
ASSet S
IDH’s high level of goodwill and other intangible assets could 
generate significant future asset impairments, which could be 
recorded as operating losses. Goodwill and intangible assets in-
clude the brand names used in the business. 
IDH carries out an annual impairment test on goodwill and 
other intangible assets in line with IAS 36. 
The results of the annual impairment test show significant head-
room across all business areas based on achievable growth rates 
in the business. For more detail see note 14 of the accounts. 
RISk FRo m Co nt RACt Cl Ient S
Contract clients including private insurers, unions and cor-
porations account for more than 60% of the Group’s revenue. 
Should IDH’s relationship with these clients deteriorate, if 
IDH should prove unable to negotiate and retain similar fee 
arrangements, or should these clients by unable to make pay-
ments to the Group, IDH’s business may be materially and ad-
versely affected.
IDH diligently works to maintain sound relationships with con-
tract clients. All changes to pricing and contracts are arrived at 
through discussion rather than blanket imposition by IDH. Re-
lations are further enhanced by regular visits to contract clients 
by the Group’s sales staff.
IDH’s attractiveness to contract clients is enhanced by the ex-
tent of its national network. 
No single client contract currently accounts for more than 
5% of revenues
Bu SIne SS Con t In u It y RISk S
IT systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of the 
Group’s business and across each of its lines of business, includ-
ing test and exam results reporting, billing, customer service, 
logistics and management of medical data. Similarly, business 
interruption at one of the Group’s larger laboratory facilities 
could result in significant losses and reputational damage to 
the Group’s business as a result of external factors such as natu-
ral disasters, fire, riots or extended power failures. The Group’s 
operations therefore depend on the continued and uninter-
rupted performance of its systems. 
Since inaugurating the Mega Lab in the second half of 2015, 
IDH has maintained one of its two former central “ A” labs as a 
backup facility. The Group has in place a full disaster recovery 
plan, with procedures and provisions for spares, redundant 
power systems, and the use of mobile data systems as alterna-
tives to landlines, among multiple other factors. IDH tests its 
disaster recovery plans on a regular basis.
l o SS o F t Al ent
IDH depends on the skills, knowledge, experience and expertise 
of its senior managers to run its business and implement its strat-
egies. The Group’s senior management has an average of 15 years 
of industry experience and the majority are medical doctors. IDH 
is furthermore reliant on its ability to recruit and retain labora-
tory professionals. Loss of senior managers could materially and 
adversely affect the Group’s results of operations and business.
The Group will launch a long term incentive program (LTIP) in 
2016 to incentivise and retain senior management. 
In addition to competitive compensation packages, the Group 
also ensures it has access to a broad pool of trained laboratory 
professionals through its own in-house recruitment and train-
ing program. We furthermore have in place a program to moni-
tor the performance of graduates of the training program. 
l o SS o F CeRt IFICAt Ion S An D ACCReDIt At Ion S
One of IDH’s subsidiaries was the only laboratory in Egypt ac-
credited by the College of American Pathologists (CAP); the 
Group’s new Mega Lab is presently undergoing CAP certifica-
tion. Many of IDH’s facilities are also certified by the Interna-
tional Organization for Standards. The failure to obtain CAP 
accreditation for Mega Lab or the failure to renew ISO certifi-
cations would call into question the Group’s quality standards 
and competitive differentiators.
IDH is presently going through procedures to obtain CAP ac-
creditation for Mega Lab, and ISO certifications are renewed on 
a regular basis. IDH’s ability to keep current its certifications 
and accreditation are supported by ongoing QA, training and 
internal audit procedures.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  28 STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
29 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   f in An ci Al 
Review
IDH reported an 18% rise in revenues in 2015 compared to the previous 
year, while net profit advanced 9.4%. Bottom line performance was 
impacted by the one-time effect of expenses of EGP 125.1 million 
related to the Group’s successful listing on the London Stock Exchange 
(LSE), as well as EGP 6.0 million in other non-recurring expenses.
2015 peRFo RmAn Ce ove Rv IeW
The Group delivered strong operational and financial perfor-
mances in the year ending 31 December 2015, with improve-
ment in both the top and bottom lines, a continued investment 
in the rollout of an additional 28 capital efficient branches and 
the inauguration of the central Mega Lab facility. 
Mega Lab is a state of the art central laboratory. It opened in 
May 2015 and is now fully operational, nearly doubling our 
existing capacity and offering an opportunity for cost savings. 
 
During 2015, IDH brought into operation a total of 28 new 
labs, including 14 new branches for Al Mokhtabar (Egypt), 
12 new branches for Al Borg (Egypt) and one branch each 
for Ultralab branch and MK Sudan both of which operate in 
Sudan. Total IDH branches reached 314 as of 31 December 
2015, up from 288 branches the previous year. (Two branch-
es were closed and replaced with new locations during the 
course of the year.)
The results for the year are set out in summary form below:
EGP million
2014 2015 % Change
Revenue 860.2 1,014.8 18%
Cost of sales (479.5) (467.5) (2%)
Gross Profit 380.7 547.3 44%
Gross Profit Margin % 44% 54% 10 pts
Add back amortisation expenses 91.5 0.3 -
Normalised Gross Profit 472.2 547.6 16%
Normalised GP Margin 55% 54% (1 pts)
Operating costs (130.2) (279.9) 115%
Operating Profit 250.5 267.5 7%
Adjustments to Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortisation (EBITDA)
Depreciation 24.1 35.8
Amortisation 91.5 0.3
EBITDA 366.0 303.7 (17%)
Add back Non-Recurring Expenses
IPO Expenses 8.4 125.1
Closure of Molecular Diagnostics Centre in Cairo - 3.4
Write off of set up costs for Qatar office now not being pursued - 1.0
Write-Off of surplus stationery included within inventory - 1.6
Total Non-Recurring Expenses 8.4 131.1
Normalised EBITDA 374.4 434.8 16%
Normalised EBITDA Margin 43.5% 42.8%
Income Tax (105.6) (119.5) 13%
Net Profit 141.7 155.0 9.4%
Normalised Net Profit 241.6 286.1 18.4%
Normalised NP Margin 28.1% 28.2%
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  30 IDH also recorded rises in total patients served (up 4% to 5.8 
million) and total tests performed (up 7% to 23.8 million). 
In respect of this summary, the Group notes:
•	 Normalised net profit is defined as net profit plus amor-
tisation and non-recurring expenditure (the non-recur-
ring expenditure is assumed to be non-tax deductible). 
•	 Normalised EBITDA is defined as EBITDA plus non-
recurring expenditure, while normalised gross margin 
is defined as Gross Margin plus amortisation. 
•	 The IPO costs were incurred by the business over a pe-
riod from November 2014 until the Group was admit-
ted to trading on 11 May 2015 and therefore are shown 
in two financial years.
•	 The costs of closure of the Molecular Diagnostic Centre 
are seen to non-recurring expenditure in nature as the 
business is being liquidated.
•	 The write-off of the costs of setting up the Qatar office is 
seen as non-recurring expenditure as the market in Qa-
tar was not seen as a market where the IDH brand and 
business would work successfully on scale which would 
justify the investment necessary to make it viable.
•	 The write off of the surplus stationery stock was identi-
fied following a detailed review of the stationary hold-
ings and it was found that this had built up over a num-
ber of years and was of little on going value to the group.
Revenue An Al ySIS
Consolidated revenues rose 18% year on year to EGP 
1,014.8 million. Revenue growth was delivered by exist-
ing branches (75% of revenue growth in the year), better 
pricing and service mix (17.3% of growth) and the open-
ing of new branches (7.7%). 
Contract based clients contributed 61% to IDH’s top line in 
2015, growing 31% on 2014. IDH signed 312 new corporate 
contracts with insurers in 2015. Meanwhile, walk-in clients 
contributed 39% to total revenues, up 2% in EGP terms from 
2014, but down 7% in terms of share of overall revenue. The 
comparatively rapid growth of contract based revenues is 
driven by IDH’s focused sales strategy and the continued ex-
pected market trend of migration from walk-in to contract 
based clients as more customers join medical coverage ar-
rangements and more corporates sign group contracts.
In absolute terms, IDH served 4.1 million contract cli-
ents in 2015 (up 13% from the previous year), while the 
total number of walk-in patients served fell to 1.7 mil-
lion (down 13.0% from 2014). Walk-in revenues rose com-
pared to 2014 on the back of better pricing and better 
test mix despite the slight downtick in patient numbers.
Egypt continued to contribute 90% of Group revenues re-
corded during 2015 followed by Jordan (7%) and Sudan 
(3%). In 2014, Egypt accounted for 89%, Jordan for 7% and 
Sudan for 4%.
 
Continued successful advertising and marketing activi-
ties saw total patients served rise 4% in 2015 to 5.8 mil-
lion as the growing number of patients served on con-
tracts offset the decline in walk-in patients. Key metrics 
also continued their growth trajectory, including rev-
enue per patient (up +14%), revenue per test (+10%) and 
tests per patient (+3%).
Co St o F SAl eS
IDH’s cost of sales declined slightly in 2015 to EGP 467.5 
million compared to EGP 479.5 million in 2014. Cost of sales 
in 2014 included the final amortisation charge relating to 
customer and supplier lists and non-compete agreements 
from historical acquisitions of EGP 91.5 million that, when 
factored out, would see 2015 cost of sales increase by 20.5%. 
Material prices for chemicals and supplies, which make up 
37% of cost of sales, increased 5% over 2014. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  31
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements Cost of materials as a percentage of sales reduced by 2% 
on 2014 as a result of operational efficiencies in running 
the Mega Lab rather than the two A Labs as previous-
ly. Wages increased 25% on 2014 after the opening of a 
further 26 net new branches and wage increases of 20%. 
Newly leased machinery for the Mega Lab resulted in an 
increased depreciation cost of EGP 6.1 million.
GRo SS pRo FIt
The Group produced a gross profit for the year of EGP 
547.3 million, up 16% compared to the normalised 2014 
figure of EGP 472.2 million. Normalised gross margin 
eased slightly to 54% in 2015 compared to 55% the previ-
ous year as a result of higher materials costs, deprecia-
tion on new machines for Mega Lab and an increase in 
the employees’ share of profits. 
o pe RAt In G ex pen SeS
Below the gross profit line, operating costs came in at EGP 
279.9 million in 2015, up 115% on 2014 as the 2015 figure 
includes non-recurring expenses of some EGP 131.1 mil-
lion primarily related to the Group’s successful listing on 
the London Stock Exchange and other non-recurring ex-
penses. Normalising for these expenses, operating costs 
would have come in at EGP 148.6 million, up 22% on 2014. 
The increase came on the back of an 8.6% rise in market-
ing and advertising expenses, reflecting IDH’s continued 
investment in marketing in a competitive landscape.
eBIt DA
Normalised EBITDA for the year increased 16% to EGP 
434.8 million, with Egyptian operations contributing 
94% of normalised EBITDA; Jordan contributed 4% and 
Sudan 2%. The EBITDA figure for 2015 has been normal-
ised for one-time IPO expenses of EGP 125.1 million and 
the non-recurring expenditure of EGP 6.0 million. The 
comparable figure for 2014 has been adjusted for one-
time IPO expenses of EGP 8.4 million.
IDH’s normalised EBITDA margin in the first three quar-
ters of 2015 stood at 45% against a final full year figure 
of 43%. The decline reflects the impact of a 38% EBITDA 
margin in the fourth quarter as result of the Group’s ac-
counting policy in 2015, which was to book certain provi-
sions and costs only in the final quarter of the year. Ex-
amples include regular provisions on debtor accounts as 
well as annual employee bonuses. Accounting policies in 
place for 2016 will see these expenses accrue instead on 
a quarterly basis. 
t Ax At Ion
Income tax expenses recorded in the income statement 
in 2015 totalled EGP 119.5 million during 2015 compared 
to EGP 105.6 million in 2014. The total tax expense in-
cluded a current tax charge for the year of EGP 108.1 mil-
lion (2014: EGP 121.9 million) and a deferred tax charge 
of EGP 11.4 million (2014: credit of EGP 16.5 million). 
There is no tax payable in the two IDH holding compa-
nies ( Jersey and Cayman). All tax is paid within the oper-
ating companies in Egypt, Jordan and Sudan. 
There has been a reduction in the Egyptian corporation 
tax rate to 22.5% in 2015 from 30% in 2014.  However, the 
full benefit of this reduction in tax rate in calculating the 
tax charge for 2015 is offset by the fact that the Group’s 
IPO costs were incurred in the Jersey entity where profits 
and losses are taxed at zero percent, thereby increasing 
the overall group effective tax rate by around 10% in 2015.  
Looking ahead to 2016, the Group expects the full benefit 
of the reduced corporation tax rate to flow through.
During 2015, a deferred tax liability has been recognised 
and a charge made for EGP 11.4 million for tax on the undis-
tributed reserves held within the IDH Group. As the Group’s 
dividend policy is to distribute any excess cash after tak-
ing into consideration all business cash requirements and 
potential acquisition considerations, a deferred tax liability 
has been recognised for the taxes expected to be incurred 
from the future distribution of reserves within the Group. 
Egyptian tax legislation now imposes a 5% tax on dividends 
distributed from Egyptian entities and the deferred tax 
charge has been calculated using this rate.
n et eARn In GS
Net profit for the year was EGP 155.0 million, up 9.4% 
compared to the EGP 141.7 million recorded in 2014. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  32 Normalised net profit for 2015 was EGP 286.1 million, up 
18.4% on 2014 partly owing to increased net financing in-
come which stood at EGP 7 million in 2015 versus a net 
financing expense of EGP 3.2 million the previous year. 
BAl An Ce SHeet
On the assets side of the balance sheet: Property, plant 
and equipment on the balance sheet rose to EGP 337.9 
million in 2015 from EGP 243.9 million the previous year 
due to the capitalisation of leased medical equipment and 
other capital expenditure at 28 new branches. 
Trade debts and other receivables increased to EGP 117.2 
million from EGP 90.1 million as a result of a 35% increase 
in accounts receivable arising from a 31 % increase in cor-
porate sales. Cash increased significantly to EGP 387.7 
million from EGP 252.1 million in 2014 due to good credit 
control and extended payment terms with suppliers.
On the liabilities side, notable variances from 2014 in-
clude a rise in long-term financial leases that increased to 
EGP 60.3 million from EGP 51 million the previous year. 
The sharp rise is attributable to the laboratory equipment 
supplied in the year to the Mega Lab facility for which the 
arrangement has been deemed to be a finance lease in na-
ture. Furthermore, long-term deferred tax liabilities and 
provisions rose year-on-year for two reasons: The impact 
of the reduction in deferred tax rates as a result of the 
headline drop in tax rates to 22.5% from 30% as well as a 
change in the basis of taxing dividends. The net movement 
is an EGP 11.4 million increase in deferred tax. Trade paya-
bles also rose as supplier payment terms changed to 60-90 
days from 45 days.
Following a detailed review of the sale and purchase 
agreements relating to the operations in Jordan and Su-
dan, a technical point was noted which meant there is a 
need to account for put option in the agreements. This has 
the effect of including a liability on the balance sheet and 
a corresponding entry into equity for the present value of 
the expected value of the option. This has been included in 
the balance sheets for 2014 and 2015. More details relating 
to this can be found in Note 2 to the accounts.
DIv IDen D
Proposed dividends for ordinary shares are subject to 
the approval of the Annual General Meeting and are not 
recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2015. The 
Board of Directors have recommended that a final divi-
dend of US$ 0.06 (six U.S. cents) per share should be paid 
to shareholders of record as at 8 April 2016, with an ex-
dividend date of 7 April 2016. The payment date for the 
dividend is 13 May 2016. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  33
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements coRpoRAt e 
Responsi Bilit Y
Founded on the principle of providing quality medical as-
sistance and services to better the lives of individuals and 
the community at large, IDH views corporate responsibility 
initiatives as an extension of its core purpose: The Group 
aims to leave the communities in which it does business 
better than it found them.
IDH commits up to 1% of the net after-tax profit of the sub-
sidiaries Al Borg and Al Mokhtabar to the Moamena Kamel 
Foundation for Training and Skill Development. The Foun-
dation was established in 2006 by Dr. Moamena Kamel, a 
Professor of Pathology at Cairo University and founder of 
IDH subsidiary Al-Mokhtabar Labs and mother of the CEO, 
Dr. Hend El Sherbini. The Foundation allocates this sum to 
organizations and groups in need of assistance, with a par-
ticular focus on making a difference in the lives of residents 
of Cairo’s Al Duweiqa community along with several other 
villages across Egypt. The Foundation deploys an integrated 
program and vision for the communities it helps that include 
economic, social, and healthcare development initiatives. In 
2015, EGP 0.8 million was paid to the foundation by the IDH 
Group; the comparable figure for 2014 was EGP 2.0 million.
The foundation’s primary services include:
1. Free healthcare clinics
2. Loans for entrepreneurial women
3. Educational services for the children of Al Duweiqa 
community
4. Providing food for families in need of such assistance
FRee He Al t HCARe Cl In ICS
The Moamena Kamel Foundation considers healthcare to be 
a basic right for every individual and therefore proudly spon-
sors a number of medical clinics in Al Duweiqa that provide 
free healthcare services. The clinics provide those facing eco-
nomic hardship free medical check-ups, diagnostic tests, and 
medical treatment in fields including gastroenterology and 
paediatrics. Treatment is delivered by qualified physicians 
and under the direct supervision of Dr. Kamel.
The Foundation has contributed funds to better the work 
environment and operational efficiency at Al Qasr El Aini 
Hospital, a flagship public hospital in Cairo. For the last 
three years, it has covered the demand for all medication 
in the gastroenterology department’s intensive care unit. 
Moreover, it provides monthly bonuses to the department’s 
nursing staff with the aim of improving nursing care. The 
foundation has also sponsored 12-20 beds at the hospital 
and purchased air conditioning units, mattresses, and oth-
er items for the gastroenterology department. 
Similar incentives were also extended to other hospitals 
across the nation. The foundation purchased surgical theatre 
equipment and covered the cost of monthly medication for 
kidney patients at El Manial University Hospital. It has also 
constructed a premature-birth unit and provided ventilators 
to Manshiyet Al Bakry hospital. Furthermore, the Foundation 
covered all costs for the laboratory equipment at Al Nahda 
Lab, providing much needed technical support to the facil-
ity, and it provided free clinical and pathology tests including 
liver function, CBC, urine and stool analysis, and hepatitis B 
and C tests for nearly 400 juvenile offenders.
Revolv In G l oAn S FoR en t RepReneu RIAl 
Women
The foundation aims to financially assist entrepreneurial 
women who shoulder the responsibility of supporting their 
families by providing them with loans to help increase 
household income and improve both families’ and commu-
nities’ standard of living. Applicants are asked to provide a 
feasibility study for their project and receive loans with leni-
ent repayment schemes, accordingly.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  34 STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
35 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   eDu CAt Ion Al tuto RIn G Fo R Al Du WeIQA 
Co mmun It y’S CHIl DRen
The foundation provides tutoring services for the children of the 
Al Duweiqa community to improve their level of education and 
skills, especially in the wake of decreasing levels of education 
in the community. These classes are provided free of charge on 
a regular basis and by highly qualified teaching professionals.
Recognizing that educational opportunities are better served 
in well maintained environments where students feel a great-
er sense of cleanliness and order, the foundation oversees the 
maintenance and upkeep of 571 school desks at Al Marg School.
On an aggregate scale, the foundation covers 60% of the cost 
of school bus transport for a number of families and donates 
a considerable amount of school supplies to the schools it 
helps sponsor, at the start of each new school year.
GIv e Fo o D to nee Dy FAmIl IeS
As characteristic of any developing nation, Egypt has a 
large sector of society that suffers from economic hard-
ships and low incomes, effectively stymieing their ability to 
secure food rations. The foundation donates food to those 
in need, and the ration hand-outs are regularly distributed, 
especially during Ramadan and the Eid holidays.
In specific terms, the foundation supports 52 families in the 
villages of Allam and Hateeta, on a monthly basis. It also 
donates a sum of EGP 100,000 to the Al Duweiqa and Man-
shiyet Nasr communities, whereby EGP 500 and EGP 200 
are given to each family, respectively.
The foundation’s food donation coverage supports over 
40,000 families across the country.
Commun Ity Bu Il DIn G, Development, An D 
ReHABIl It At Ion
Casting the CSR net beyond the reach of food rations, edu-
cation, and women empowerment, the foundation also ap-
preciates the need for diverse initiatives that address other 
aspects of community development. 
Whether it involves offering marriage support for the needy, 
or providing a utility extension in the Beheira Oasis that bet-
tered the area’s electricity, water, and sewage systems, the 
Moemena Kamel Foundation aims to improve communities 
in both cultural and developmental terms, respectively.
It has also taken part in various initiatives that target reha-
bilitation schemes for juvenile offenders, and financial sup-
port extended to orphans and the elderly.
IDH continues to hold its CSR responsibilities at the fore, view-
ing such social initiatives as an extension of the cornerstone 
upon which the company was founded. By appropriating 
funds to the Moemena Kamel Foundation, we are confident 
that our monetary aid is delivered effectively and transpar-
ently to a vast number people in need of such social generosity.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  36 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  37
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements coRpoRAt e 
Gove Rn An ce
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  38 st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements
39 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   Bo Ar d of 
d ir e Cto rs The majority of members of IDH’s Board of Directors are independent and 
offer significant experience in the healthcare market, MENA region, and 
investment activities.
(a) Lor D St Jo Hn o F bLEt So — In DEp En DEnt 
n on-E x Ecu t Iv E c HaIrp Er Son (Age 58)
Lord St John has been a member of the House of Lords of the 
U.K. Parliament since 1978 and is currently Deputy Chairman 
of Strand Hanson Ltd., Non-Executive Chairman of Global Re-
sources Investment Trust, a member of the Advisory Board of 
Silicon V alley Bank, Non-Executive Director of Albion V entures 
LLP , Chairman of the Governing Board of Certification Inter-
national and holds advisory roles with Milio International, Al-
liance Media Group USA, Sapinda and ABN Corporation. Lord 
St John received a BA and a BSocSc in Psychology from Cape 
Town University, a BProc in Law from the University of South 
Africa and an LLM from the London School of Economics.
(b) p ro F. Dr . HEn D EL SHErb In I — Group c HIEF 
Ex Ecut Iv E o FFIc Er (Age 47)
Dr. El Sherbini is a professor of clinical pathology at the Fac-
ulty of Medicine, Cairo University and currently sits on the 
board of American Society of Clinical Pathology (Egypt) 
and consults on the international certification process. She 
received her MBBCh, Masters in Clinical and Chemical pa-
thology and PhD in Immunology from Cairo University. Dr. 
El Sherbini served as CEO of Al Mokhtabar since 2004 until 
becoming CEO of the Group in 2012
(c) aHm ED baDr ELDIn — n on-E x Ecu t Iv E 
DIr Ec tor (Age 44)
Mr. Badreldin is a Partner at The Abraaj Group and oversees its 
investments in the Middle East and North Africa. He is current-
ly vice chairman of North Africa Hospital Holdings, chairman 
of Spinneys Group, and a director on the board of a number of 
companies including Viking Oil Field Services, OMS, Stanford 
Marine Group and Assad. Prior to joining The Abraaj Group 
in 2008, he was a Director in Investment Banking at Barclays 
Capital in London in the Financial Sponsors and Leveraged 
Finance Team. Mr. Badreldin graduated in Mechanical Engi-
neering and Business Administration from the American Uni-
versity in Cairo and holds an MBA from Cranfield School of 
Management in the UK with a focus on Strategy and Finance.
(d) Hu SSEIn c Houc r I — In DEp En DEnt n on-
Ex Ec ut Iv E DIr Ec tor (Age 65)
Mr. Choucri is Chairman and Managing Director of HC Secu-
rities & Investment, which he established in May 1996, and 
a b c d
IDH ANNu Al re port 2015  40 he currently sits on the board of the Holding Company for 
Tourism, Hotels & Cinema and the Egyptian British Business 
Council. Mr. Choucri served as a Managing Director of Morgan 
Stanley from 1987 to 1993 and served as Advisory Director at 
Morgan Stanley from 1993-2007. He received his Management 
Diploma from the American University in Cairo in 1978.
(e) jA meS pAt RICk n ol An — In Depen Dent n on-
ex eCu t Iv e DIReCt o R (AGe 55)
Mr. Nolan is currently Global Head of Mergers & Acqui-
sitions at VimpelCom Ltd., a NASDAQ quoted leading 
mobile telecoms operator in emerging markets. Prior to 
his role at VimpelCom, Mr. Nolan spent 15 years with 
Royal Philips NV, latterly as Head of Mergers & Acquisi-
tions. During this period he led a series of acquisitions 
in diagnostic imaging, an area in which Philips is now a 
global leader. He has extensive quoted-company board 
experience having served on the boards of M*Modal 
Inc., Navteq Inc and SHL Telemedicine Ltd. Mr. Nolan 
graduated from Oxford University in Law in 1983 and is 
a qualified barrister in England and Wales. He also holds 
an MBA from INSEAD.
(f) DAn o l SSon — In Depen Dent n on- ex eCu t Iv e 
DIReCt o R (AGe 50)
Mr. Olsson is CEO of the Team Olivia Group, a Swedish 
healthcare group. He has long and extensive international 
experience in the diagnostic sector, where he has served in 
a range of executive positions, among others as CEO of Unil-
abs Group in Geneva, Switzerland from 2007 to 2009 and has 
worked in the healthcare sector since 1999. Mr. Olsson stud-
ied economics at the University of Lund in Sweden in 1990.
 
(g) RICHARD Hen Ry pHIl l IpS — n o n-
ex eCu t Iv e DIReCt o R (AGe 51)
Mr. Phillips is a founding partner of Actis LLP , the emerging 
markets private equity group. He established the Actis Global 
Consumer Sector team and served as Head of Consumer for 
four years until becoming a member of the Actis Investment 
Committee. He is currently responsible for the investment 
activity of Actis in North Africa. Mr. Phillips is a director on 
the board of a number of companies including Edita Food 
Industries SAE, Emerging Markets Payments Holdings (Mau-
ritius) Limited and others. Mr. Phillips holds a degree in Eco-
nomics from the University of Exeter. 
e f
g
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  41
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements cHAiRmAn ’s 
Repo Rt
Your Board of Directors (“the Board”) is responsible for 
providing strong leadership and effective decision making, 
safeguarding in the process the interests of all shareholders 
of Integrated Diagnostics Holdings (“IDH” or “the Group”). 
Under my chairmanship, the Board has been resolute in 
providing oversight and guidance to the Group’s manage-
ment as the Group began its first year as a corporation list-
ed on the London Stock Exchange. 
IDH has a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and is thus not required to comply with the requirements 
of the 2014 U.K. Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) 
as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. However, we 
are firm in our belief in the importance of good govern-
ance practices and we aim to voluntarily comply with as-
pects of the code while continuously working to close the 
gap with premium listed entities. We strongly believe that 
adopting best industry practices in governance will assist 
us in building a profitable and sustainable business as well 
as safeguarding shareholder interests.
We are in compliance with Financial Conduct Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule (DTR) subchapters 7.1 
and 7.2, which set out certain mandatory disclosures: 7.1 
Chairman l ord St j ohn of Bletso
discusses IDH’s corporate governance 
framework and the work of the Board  
and its committees during 2015
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  42 concerns audit committees and bodies carrying out equiv-
alent functions; 7.2 concerns corporate governance stand-
ards that are included in the Directors Report or, in this 
case, as part of the Strategic Review (DTR 7.2.1). 
To that end, we have established in our first year as a listed 
company an Audit Committee as well as remuneration and 
nomination committees; the Board may establish addition-
al committees as appropriate going forward. This Annual 
Report includes reports from both the Audit and Remu-
neration Committees.  The nomination committee did not 
meet during the year.
Your board aims to work in accordance with best prac-
tices in corporate governance, calling on both the ex-
pertise of individual Directors as well as that of outside 
parties, including legal counsel and global professional 
services firms.  
We have worked diligently throughout the first year of our 
appointment as directors to meet the challenges before us. 
We look forward to reporting to you not just through this, 
our first Annual Report, but also at our 9 May 2016 Annual 
General Meeting of shareholders.
t He Ipo pRo CeSS
At a meeting held 12 January 2015, the board constituted an 
IPO Committee, with members including Dr. Hend El Sherbini 
(alternate: Sherif El Ghamrawi), Richard Phillips (alternate: 
Hossam Abou Moussa), and Ahmed Badreldin (alternate: Amr 
Helal). The committee was granted full power and authority 
to complete the initial public offering of IDH shares and to see 
to their admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Deutsche Bank and EFG Hermes Investment Banking were 
joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners, while and Cit-
igroup Global Markets were joint bookrunners on the transac-
tion, which saw IDH admitted to trading on 11 May 2015 after 
an extensive roadshow. The Group’ s entire issued share capital 
of 150,000,000 ordinary shares was admitted to the standard 
listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority 
and to trading on London Stock Exchange’s main market for 
listed securities under the ticker symbol IDHC.
Fun Ct Ion In G o F t He Bo ARD
We met four times as a board during the course of 2015 (in 
January, April, August and November), and I was delighted to 
have had the opportunity to visit IDH’s main base of opera-
tions in Cairo, Egypt, in summer 2015. Whilst in Egypt, I held 
  Under my chairmanship, the Board has been 
resolute in providing oversight and guidance to 
the Group’s management as the Group began 
its first year as a corporation listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  43
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements have in place the right strategy and the right management 
team to deliver shareholder returns going forward. 
Throughout, I have had the pleasure of working with Dr. 
Hend El Sherbini, our chief executive and sole executive 
director. As chairman of a company founded and led on 
a day to day basis by a powerful female chief executive, 
we take seriously the recommendations of Lord Davies’ 
review of Women on Boards and look forward to making 
further progress in this respect with the passage of time. 
While our Board has some way yet to go to meet Lord 
Davies’ recommendation that women account for 25% of 
the members of our board, I do note that we are a group at 
which fully 30% of the workforce is female.
Together, the directors offer IDH a world standard mix of 
expertise in areas including strategy, finance and medical 
diagnostics — as well as diverse experience in Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. In summary, we have relevant com-
mercial and technical experience to help direct the Group 
as it delivers on its strategy in a very technical field and 
across rapidly changing geographies. I am pleased to report 
that we are optionally compliant with the Code in having 
four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Your Board and their biographies are set out on pages 40-
41 and 44 of this Annual Report and is summarized in the 
table below. 
l eADeRSHIp 
In our first year as a listed entity, we have agreed a clear 
division of responsibilities between the role of the Chair-
man and that of the Group Chief Executive. This segre-
gation of roles was agreed at the Board meeting held 12 
January 2015.  
meetings at corporate offices and toured the recently opened 
Mega Lab (IDH’s centralized and fully automated testing fa-
cility) and collector facilities. During the visit, I engaged di-
rectly with senior management to discuss both the Group’s 
strategic plans and how management (including our chief 
executive) is evolving the policies and procedures necessary 
to continue the full institutionalisation of the business. 
As part of this institutionalisation process, IDH retained 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Dubai to perform a comprehen-
sive gap analysis of IDH’s finance function post-listing. The 
aim of this exercise was to:
•	 Improve finance policies, processes, controls and IT 
utilisation;
•	 Develop a robust framework and mechanism to ensure 
accountability, control and governance, and reduce 
people dependency;
•	 Evolve the finance function such that it focuses its ef-
fort beyond transaction processing and thus provide 
meaningful management insights; 
•	 Ensure the availability, quality, relevance and timeli-
ness of information for robust management decision 
making and meeting other stakeholder needs (such as 
investor relations, tax authorities, and banks).
The Group’s senior management received the PwC report 
during the fourth quarter of 2015 and is now assessing its 
findings and developing a plan for implementation. The 
Group and the Board are also reviewing the outcome of the 
internal audit conducted in 2015 by Ernst & Young Egypt, ad-
ditional detail on which is included in this Annual Report’s 
Audit Committee Report, beginning page 50. 
The Board has invested significant time discussing and 
evaluating the Group’s strategy and prospects for future 
growth, the outcome of which is presented in our state-
ment of strategy on page 24. We are confident that we 
Name Age Position
Lord St John of Bletso 58
Independent Non-Executive Chairperson
(12 January 2015)
Prof. Dr. Hend El Sherbini 47
Group Chief Executive Officer
(23 December 2014)
Ahmed Badreldin 44
Non-Executive Director
(5 December 2014)
Hussein Choucri 65
Independent Non-Executive Director
(12 January 2015)
James Patrick Nolan 55
Independent Non-Executive Director
(8 April 2015)
Dan Olsson 50
Independent Non-Executive Director
(12 January 2015)
Richard Henry Phillips 51
Non-Executive Director
(23 December 2014)
BoARD oF DIReCt oRS oF Inte GRAt eD DIAGno St IC Hol DIn GS pl C
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  44 As Chairman, I ensure the Board is effective in the execu-
tion of all aspects of its role. The Group Chief Executive Of-
ficer, meanwhile, is responsible for managing the day to day 
running of the business. In this, she is supported by a senior 
management team. The Group Chief Executive and I have 
a good working relationship and discuss matters of Group 
strategy and performance on an as-needed basis. 
We also work together to ensure that Board meetings cover 
relevant matters and, in partnership with the Group secre-
tary, ensure that all Directors:  
•	 Are kept advised of key developments;
•	 Receive accurate, timely and clear information upon 
which to call in the execution of their duties; 
•	 Actively participate in the decision making process. 
Agendas for meetings of the Board are reviewed and agreed 
in advance to ensure each Board meeting is efficiently run, 
allowing all Directors to openly and constructively challenge 
the proposals made by the Group’s senior management. I am 
pleased to report that throughout the year, each Director has 
properly exercised those powers with which they have been 
vested by the Group’ s Articles of Association and relevant laws. 
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved to 
it, items of which were approved at a meeting of the board 
held 12 January 2015, updated at a meeting held 8 April 2015, 
and approved in an ordinary resolution dated 21 April 2015. 
Matters reserved to the board means any decision that may 
affect the overall direction, supervision and management of 
the Group or the Group’s group including, but not limited to:
a. approving annually a strategic plan and objectives for 
the following year for the Group;
b. approving any decision to cease to operate all or any 
material part of the Group’s business or to enter into 
any new business or geographic areas;
c. monitoring the delivery of the Group’s strategy, objec-
tives, business plan and budget;
d. engaging or otherwise contracting with agents, repre-
sentatives, consultants, distributors or other interme-
diaries to provide material services for or on behalf of 
the Group’s group;
e. adopting or amending the Group’s business plan or an-
nual budget;
f. incurring any capital expenditure in respect of any item 
or project of more than EGP 5,000,000 that is not within 
the annual budget already approved by the Board;
g. entering into any contract, liability or commitment 
which: (i) could involve a liability for expenditure in 
excess of EGP 25,000,000 that is not within the annual 
budget already approved by the Board; or (ii) is out-
side the ordinary course of business of the Group, un-
less a contract involves costs within the annual budg-
et and business plan already approved by the Board 
and satisfies such authorisation criteria as the Group 
may approve from time to time as part of the proce-
dures for the Group;
h. making any material acquisition or disposal (including 
any grant of any material licence) of or relating to any 
intellectual property rights;
i. decisions relating to the conduct (including the settle-
ment) of any legal proceedings to which any member of 
the Group’s group is a party where there is a potential 
liability or claim of more than EGP 100,000;
j. approving the Group’s statutory accounts and half-yearly 
financial statements and / or any change in the account-
ing principles or tax policies of any member of the Group’ s 
group and / or any change in the end of the financial year 
of any member of the Group’s group except as contem-
plated by the business plan or annual budget, as required 
by law or to comply with a new accounting standard;
k. adopting (or varying) the Group group’s material poli-
cies in respect of employees’ remuneration, employ-
ment terms and/or pension schemes;
l. any member of the Group’s group declaring or paying 
any dividend or distribution; 
m. delegating any of the Group’s powers to a committee of 
the Board, including setting the quorum for a meeting 
of any such committee or approving its, or any changes 
to its, terms of reference;
n. approving the issue of all circulars, prospectuses, list-
ing particulars and general meeting notices to share-
holders of the Group;
o. ensuring the Group has effective systems of internal 
control and risk management in place by (i) approving 
the Group’s risk appetite statements; and (ii) approving 
policies and procedures for the detection of fraud, the 
prevention of bribery and other areas considered by the 
Board to be material;
p. undertaking an annual review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal control and 
reporting on that review in the Group’s annual report. 
The review should cover all controls, including finan-
cial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management; 
q. carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks fac-
ing the Group, including those that threaten its business, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity and to report on 
such assessment in the Group’s annual report; and
r. reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance ar-
rangements and approving any changes thereto. 
Apart from these Reserved matters, the Board delegates spe-
cific items to its principal committees, namely the commit-
tees on Audit, Remuneration and Nominations. Each Com-
mittee is authorised to seek any information it requires from 
senior management. Beginning in 2016, the committees will 
endeavour to review on an annual basis their own perfor-
mance, constitution and terms of reference. 
I provide brief recaps below on each of these committees. 
Reports from the Chairmen of the Audit and Remunera-
tion committees appear starting pages 50 and 56 of this 
Annual Report, respectively.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  45
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements meet In G k ey DeCISIon S
12 jA n uARy 2015
(Held in St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Updates related to the IPO process
•	 Directors’ training
•	 Established an IPO committee
•	 Approvals of matters and agreements related to the IPO
•	 Established a quorum for the board
•	 Established the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees
•	 Approved corporate governance documents, including the Schedule of Mat-
ters Reserved to the Board and the division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the CEO, among other matters
8 ApRIl 2 015
(Held on Fleet St., London)
•	 Updates related to the IPO process
•	 Approval of each Director’s appointment letter
•	 Appointment of James Patrick Nolan as Non-Executive Director
•	 Approval of service agreements for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer
•	 Approval of the Group’ s 2012, 2013 and 2014 historical IFRS financial statements
•	 Affirmation of the Audit Committee’s power to approve an engagement letter 
for KPMG
•	 Review and approval of draft IPO prospectus and of agreements related to 
the IPO
•	 Approval and appointment of members to the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination committees
•	 Approval of certain corporate governance documents
21 Au Gu St 2015
(Held in St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Cost of supplies (almost all imported) was equivalent to c. 17% of revenues in 
2015 (2014: 19%). Management believes that it can mitigate the effects of de-
valuation through a combination of improved pricing and cost efficiencies.
•	 Only 12% of IDH’s cost of supplies (c. 2% of revenues) are payable in U.S. dollars, 
minimising the Group’s exposure to FX scarcity and, in part, devaluation. IDH 
could, however, face price changes or negotiations with suppliers.
•	 Despite being a cash-generative business, IDH’s ability to source foreign ex-
change is limited by caps on cash deposits of foreign currency at banks in 
Egypt. This can put limitation on the Group’s level of U.S. dollar dividends. The 
Board is accordingly studying alternatives through which to make better use of 
excess local currency cash.
20 n ovem BeR 2015 
(St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Approval to open a bank account with the National Bank of Egypt (UK) Ltd. 
(As at today’s date, the account has yet to be opened.)
•	 Discussion of the foreign currency situation in Egypt
•	 Update on the actions list from the meeting of 21 August 2015
•	 Trading update and management report
•	 Update on replacement in 2016 of Market Abuse Directive by Market 
Abuse Regulation
BoARD ACt Iv It IeS Du RIn G 2015
Your Board of Directors held four meetings in 2015. The wide range of activities with which the Board dealt at 
those meetings is summarized here in brief. 
The following standing items are considered at each meeting:
•	 Determines that notice was given and that a quorum for the meeting has been obtained;
•	 Hears declarations of interest and considers an conflicts of interest that may arise;
•	 Establishes the purpose of the meeting
•	 Reviews and approves minutes of the previous meeting of the Board.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  46 Details of our Directors’ attendance at Board and Com-
mittee meetings are shown on the table on page 49. In the 
event that any Director is unable to attend a meeting of 
the Board or of a Committee of which they are a member, 
he or she receives the necessary papers, including agen-
das, meeting outcomes and any documents presented for 
review or information. In the event that a Director is un-
able to attend a meeting of the Board, I endeavour to dis-
cuss with them in advance of the meeting to obtain their 
views and decisions on the proposals to be considered.  
As often as possible, we hold a dinner to coincide with each 
scheduled meeting of the Board so as to permit Directors to 
discuss current business matters as well as to source updates 
on current operations, markets and wider industry matters 
from both the senior management team and from external 
advisors. This more casual format furthermore allows us as 
Directors to get to know one another and select members 
of senior management in a less formal setting. We held two 
such dinners in 2015 (in January and August) and aim to con-
tinue this practice in 2016. 
The Board also hopes to hold one meeting in Egypt in 2016 to 
afford all Directors the opportunity to tour the Group’s Egypt 
offices and diagnostic facilities as well as to meet with mem-
bers of the Group’ s senior management on an as-needed basis. 
Within the wider corporate governance framework, I believe 
it pertinent to note that while there is no standing commit-
tee of senior management, the Group holds weekly manage-
ment meetings attended by senior management, including 
executives responsible for sales, manual analysis units, auto-
mated analysis units, human resources, finance, marketing, 
quality and investor relations. The Group’s general counsel 
also attends these meetings, at which senior management 
discusses upcoming priorities, recent performance, and the 
operational steps necessary to ensure the management team 
delivers on its business goals and the Group’s strategic plan. 
eFFeCt Iv ene SS
The Board of IDH does not currently have formal mechanisms 
in place to evaluate its effectiveness as regards the on-board-
ing of new directors, strategic planning or its formulation of 
goals. That said, having spent considerable time in both formal 
meetings and in learning about the skills of our Directors one 
on one — and drawing on my past experience as a director — I 
am confident that the Board has the skills, talent and indus-
try knowledge it needs to effectively deliver the Group’ s agreed 
strategy. It is, moreover, our hope that we will over time devel-
op formal evaluation mechanisms that will allow us to report 
on our effectiveness in a more rigorous manner. 
In the interim, it is my considered judgement that the 
Board receives from senior management sufficiently de-
tailed budgets, forecasts, strategy proposals, reviews of the 
Group’s financial position and operating performance, and 
annual and half yearly reports to ensure that it may be effec-
tive. This enables us to effectively ask questions of senior 
management and to hold discussions on the Group’s strat-
egy and performance. 
In 2015, senior management delivered quarterly reports to 
the board; beginning in 2016, the Board will receive monthly 
reports ahead of regularly scheduled board meetings. 
All meetings of the Board and its Committees are minuted 
by the Group Secretary or a designated alternate. Any con-
cerns raised by Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes 
of each meeting. I review Board minutes in my capacity as 
Chairman before these minutes are circulated to all Directors 
in attendance and then tabled for approval at the next meet-
ing, at which time any necessary amendments are made. 
Compo SIt Ion o F t He Bo ARD
Under its Articles of Association, the Group must have a mini-
mum of two Directors. While there is no maximum number 
of Directors, the Board presently includes seven members and 
has no intention at present of appointing additional members. 
Directors have no share qualification, meaning they do not 
need to be shareholders of the Group in order to serve. 
The Group has obtained customary directors’ and officers’ 
indemnity insurance covering the Chairperson and the Non-
Executive Directors.
ov eRv IeW o F t He n om In At Ion S Comm Ittee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in reviewing 
the structure, size and composition of the Board. It is also 
responsible for reviewing succession plans for the Directors, 
including the Chairman and Chief Executive and other sen-
ior management. The nomination committee will normally 
meet not less than twice a year.
I note in this instance that all members of the Nominations 
Committee are Non-Executive Directors. As a result, we are 
fully compliant with the Governance Code’s recommenda-
tion that a majority of the nomination committee should 
comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr. Hussein 
Choucri is deemed to be our Non-Executive Director with 
relevant financial experience in compliance with the DTR.
Chairman Members
Lord St John of Bletso Hussein Choucri
Dan Olsson
The Nominations Committee did not meet in 2015. 
ov eRv IeW o F t He Remune RAt Ion Comm Ittee
The remuneration committee recommends the Group’s 
policy on executive remuneration, determines the levels 
of remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman 
and other senior management, and prepares an annual re-
muneration report for approval by the Shareholders at the 
annual general meeting. The remuneration committee will 
normally meet not less than three times a year.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  47
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements The Governance Code recommends that the remuneration 
committee should comprise, in the case of smaller compa-
nies, at least two Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
As all of the members of the Committee are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors, we are in full compliance with the 
recommendations of the Governance Code in this respect.
Chairman Members
Hussein Choucri Dan Olsson
James Patrick Nolan
The Remuneration Committee met in November 2015. The 
complete report of the Remuneration Committee for 2015 
appears starting page 56.
ov eRv IeW o F t He Au DIt Comm Ittee
The audit committee’s role is to assist the Board with the dis-
charge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, 
including reviewing the Group’s annual and half year finan-
cial statements and accounting policies, internal and exter-
nal audits and controls, reviewing and monitoring the inde-
pendence and scope of the annual audit and the extent of the 
non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising 
on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal audit, internal controls, whistle-
blowing and fraud systems in place within the Group. The 
audit committee will meet not less than three times a year.
     
The Governance Code requires that at least one member of the 
audit committee be independent and that at least one mem-
ber has competence in accounting and/or auditing. In addi-
tion, the Governance Code recommends that the audit com-
mittee should comprise, in the case of smaller companies, at 
least two Independent Non-Executive Directors and that at 
least one member has recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Board considers that the Group complies with the require-
ments and recommendations of the Code in those respects. 
Chairman Members
James Patrick Nolan Dan Olsson
Hussein Choucri
The full report of the Audit Committee for 2015 appears 
starting on page 50 of this Annual Report.
Inte Rn Al Cont Ro l An D RISk mAn AGement
Given the business and geographies in which the Group oper-
ates, I believe as Chairman that risk mitigation will be key not 
just to the creation and preservation of shareholder value, but 
in the Group’s growth going forward. The risk matrix is of suf-
ficiently vital importance that it must be owned equally by the 
management team and members of the Board. 
Our view as a Board is that the Group must be proactive on 
risk in order to meet shareholder expectations, and I have 
advised that I expect IDH to be ahead of the curve in this 
area. Senior management is working with the internal audit 
team to take the risk register forward. You may expect risk 
and its mitigation will be a theme to which your board re-
turns repeatedly in 2016, as we did in 2015. 
The Board has delegated oversight of the Group’s system of 
internal controls to the Audit Committee so as to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and the interests of shareholders. The 
Audit Committee thus reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls on an ongoing basis to ensure the keeping 
of proper accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Board has accordingly established that the Group has in 
place internal controls to manage risk including:
•	 The outsourcing of the internal audit function to pro-
fessionals from Ernst & Young (EY);
•	 The identification and management of risk at the level of 
operating departments by the heads of those departments;
•	 Regular Board level discussion of the major business 
risks of the Group, together with measures being taken 
to contain and mitigate those risks.
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties and mitigation 
for them are set out on pages 26-28 of this Annual Report.
Y our Board has furthermore put in place a control framework 
at the Group level that applies to all subsidiaries, including:
•	 Board approval of the overall Group budget and stra-
tegic plans;
•	 A clear organisational structure delineating lines of re-
sponsibility, authorities and reporting requirements;
•	 Defined expenditure authorization levels;
•	 A regular process for operational reviews at the senior 
management level on a weekly, monthly and quarterly 
basis covering all aspects of the business;
•	 A strategic planning process that defines the key steps 
senior management must take to deliver on the Group’s 
long term strategy;
•	 A comprehensive system of financial reporting includ-
ing weekly flash reports to management, monthly re-
porting to management and an annual budget process 
involving both senior management and the Board. The 
Board received reports on a quarterly basis in 2015. 
Beginning in 2016, the Board will continue to receive 
quarterly updates, but will furthermore receive month-
ly reports from senior management;
•	 As part of the reporting process in 2015, management 
reviews monthly actual results against prior year, against 
budget and against forecast; beginning 2016, these re-
ports will also be circulated to the Board. Any significant 
changes and adverse variances are reviewed by the Group 
Chief Executive and by senior management and remedial 
action is taken where appropriate.
An internal audit plan for 2016 will be prepared and agreed 
with the Audit Committee. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  48 Inve St o R Rel At Ion S
Engagement with shareholders has been a key function at both 
the senior management and the Board level throughout our 
first year as a listed company. Our investor relations function 
held more than 38 meetings with 75 current shareholders and 
potential investors following the Group’s admission to trading. 
Management met investors at investor conferences organized by 
EFG Hermes and Deutsche Bank; welcomed potential and cur-
rent investors to meetings in Cairo; and handled queries, whether 
delivered verbally or in writing, from nearly four dozen investors.
We published both half- and full-year results and further-
more released an interim update on performance at the 
nine-month mark. We intend to continue publishing in-
terim performance updates at the first- and third-quarter 
marks in 2016 while simultaneously meeting the minimum 
disclosure required by statute. 
The Board communicates with shareholders through pub-
lic announcements disseminated via the London Stock Ex-
change, analyst briefings, roadshows and press interviews. 
Copies of public announcements and financial results are 
published on the Group’s website, along with a number of 
other investor relations tools. The delivery of a richer inves-
tor relations website with additional shareholder tools is a 
priority for senior management in 2016. 
The Board receives regular updates from the senior man-
agement team on the views of major shareholders and on 
milestones in the investor relations program. We will con-
tinue throughout 2016 to grow our investor relations pro-
gram to ensure that our shareholders and stakeholders 
remain informed of the Group’s strategy and ongoing finan-
cial and business performance. 
Annu Al Repo Rt In G An D Annu Al Gene RAl 
meet In G o F SHAReHol DeRS
This is our first Annual Report as a quoted company. We 
will typically publish future Annual Reports in March in 
respect of the prior year ended 31 December. We voluntar-
ily comply with the Code’s requirement to send a Notice of 
Meeting of an AGM and related papers at least 20 working 
days prior to the meeting. 
The Group’s first Annual General Meeting as a listed com-
pany will be held in London on 9 May 2016. Sharehold-
ers are encouraged to attend the AGM and to ask ques-
tions about the business, its financial performance and its 
strategy. All Board members are scheduled to attend the 
upcoming AGM. Details of the AGM are included in the 
Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Annual Report 
and which is available on our website.
During the AGM, all of the Group’s Directors will voluntar-
ily submit their retirement and seek reappointment. 
The outcome of the voting at the AGM will be announced 
by way of a London Stock Exchange announcement and 
full details will be published on the Group’s website short-
ly after the AGM. 
l ImIt At Ion S o F t HIS Repo Rt
As I noted earlier, the Group is not bound to adhere to the 
requirements of the 2014 U.K. Code of Corporate Govern-
ance. Nevertheless, we have endeavoured where possible 
to ensure that this Annual Report is, as a whole, fair, bal-
anced and understandable.
In formulating this Annual Report, we have called on the 
Group Chief Executive and her senior management staff 
to provide us with clear documentary evidence of the 
Group’s performance and policies for 2015. The Audit 
Committee has confirmed to us that the financial state-
ments as contained in the 2015 Annual Report are true 
and fair and that the work of the external auditor has been 
accurate and effective.
l ord St j ohn of Bletso
Chairman
24 March 2016
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Number of meetings 4 3 1 0
Directors
Lord St John of Bletso 4 - - -
Dr. Hend El Sherbini 4 - - -
Rick Phillips 4 - - -
Ahmed Badreldin** 3 - - -
Dan Olsson 4 3 1 -
Hussein Choucri** 3 2 1 -
James Nolan* 3 3 1 -
tAB l e o F DIReCt oR At ten DAn Ce At 2 015 meet In GS
* Mr . Nolan was appointed following the 12 January 2015 meeting of the Board and so has attended 100% of the meetings held post his appointment.
**  Mr. Choucri sent his regrets for the Board meeting of 12 January 2015 as well as for the Audit Committee meeting of 14 July 2015. Mr. 
Badreldin sent his regrets for the Board meeting of 20 November 2015.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  49
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements Audit 
committee Repo Rt
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing IDH’s 
internal financial reporting and ensuring the integrity 
of the Group’s financial statements. The Committee is 
also responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effec-
tiveness of the Group’s risk management processes and 
internal controls as well as for ensuring that audit pro-
cesses are robust.
At the date of this report, the Audit Committee comprises 
three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered 
independent. In addition to me, the members were Dan 
Olsson and Hussein Choucri 
This is the first year for the function and the Board has ap-
pointed me as the first Chairman of the Audit Committee 
owing to my relevant financial experience as required by 
the Code. I have served on the audit committees of three 
publicly quoted companies in the past. I am currently 
head of mergers and acquisitions at VimpelCom Ltd, hav-
ing previously held the same position at Royal Philips. I 
hold an MBA from INSEAD and studied law at university. 
The other members of the Committee have a broad range 
of appropriate skills and experience covering financial 
and healthcare industry matters and their biographies are 
summarized on pages 40-41. I am very grateful for their 
valuable contributions and am happy that we work well 
together as a team.
j ames n olan 
Chairman, Audit Committee
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  50 During 2015, the Audit Committee convened a total of three 
times, namely in July , August and December . W e provided effec-
tive governance of external financial reporting, risk manage-
ment and internal controls and reported our findings and rec-
ommendations to the Board. Outside of scheduled committee 
meetings, the Audit Committee also communicated through-
out 2015 on an as-needed basis with the Group Chief Financial 
Officer and with KPMG as our external auditors.  
The audit partner and audit manager from the Group’s exter-
nal auditor, KPMG, are invited to attend meetings of the Com-
mittee on a regular basis. During 2015, they attended meetings 
in whole or in part, both in person and by telephone. The Chief 
Financial Officer, who is not a member of the executive board, 
attends our meetings by invitation, and other members of the 
senior management team attend as required; these include 
the Director of Investor Relations, and the Group Secretary. 
There are also private meetings between the Audit Committee 
and the external auditor after the half-year and year-end results 
at which senior management is not present. The Committee 
will continue with the practice of meeting in private with the 
external auditor in the future.
The Committee commissioned in 2015 an internal audit car-
ried out by Ernst & Y oung Egypt (EY), which reviewed procure-
ment and human resources at the IDH level as well as corpo-
rate governance, finance, inventory management, information 
technology, front office operations, business development, 
and sales and marketing at the Group’s two primary Egyptian 
subsidiaries, Al Borg and Al Mokhtabar. These audits included 
reviews of the appropriateness and effectiveness of controls. 
EY delivered two reports in 2015 and has at time of writing 
delivered reports covering an additional six functions in 2016. 
The Audit Committee will review the recommendations of all 
reports completed by EY and discuss the same with senior 
management during 2016.
Also in 2015, the Group retained the Dubai office of Ernst 
& Young Middle East to carry out regular reviews of Anti-
Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) internal controls in rela-
tion to the UK Bribery Act 2010. This included a one-time 
review and subsequent quarterly reviews and reporting to 
the Audit Committee.  
Role S & Dut IeS oF t He Au DIt Comm Ittee
The audit committee’s role is to assist the Board with the 
discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial 
reporting, including:
•	 Reviewing the Group’s annual and half year financial 
statements;
•	 Reviewing the Group’s accounting policies, internal and 
external audits and controls;
A report from Mr. James Nolan,
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Plc. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  51
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements •	 Reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit 
and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by exter-
nal auditors;
•	 Advising on the appointment of external auditors and 
reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit, inter-
nal controls, whistleblowing and fraud systems in place 
within the Group
During its scheduled meetings, the Committee also considers 
the following matters:
•	 Confirm compliance with Directors’ duties and consider 
any new conflicts of interest;
•	 Review minutes of previous meetings;
•	 Review actions from previous meetings;
•	 Review progress against current year objectives.
There were no specific objectives set by the Audit Commit-
tee for 2015. That said, as part of our ongoing process to 
further develop the Group’s governance practice, objectives 
will be set for 2016. 
AuDIt Comm Ittee A Ct Iv It IeS DuRIn G 2015
During 2015 the Audit Committee had three scheduled 
meetings, one each in July, August and December. At each 
scheduled meeting the Committee considers the matters 
outlined above under the subheading “Roles & Duties of the 
Audit Committee. ”
j uly 2015
•	 Approved KPMG’s letter of engagement, including au-
dit fees for 2015
•	 Approved KPMG’s audit plan for 2015
•	 Identified and discussed with KPMG significant risk fac-
tors within the business including impairment of goodwill, 
management override of control, and revenue recognition.
AuGuSt 2015
•	 Consideration of half-year financials for the period to 30 
June 2015, including reviews of:
•	 Presentation of EBITDA and results
•	 Risks including: Goodwill impairment, currency risk, lease 
accounting, bad debts
•	 Internal controls and plans for their development
•	 Other business, including the migration to Mega Lab, the 
need to consider business risks on an ongoing basis along-
side audit risks, Mega Lab land purchase
•	 Recommendation to the Board on:
•	 The half-year results and the Group’s commentary on the 
same in its results release.
DeCemBeR 2015
•	 Overview of the 2015 year-end audit and its timeline
•	 Preparation of the Annual Report
•	 Initial findings of the goodwill and intangible impair-
ment review
•	 Review of systems and control findings
Issue How it is being addressed
Finance lease accounting The contracts for the supply of medical testing kits with the key suppliers to the busi-
ness (Siemens, BM and Roche) include the provision of the equipment to analyse the 
results of the testing kits.  The agreements have minimum annual commitment pay-
ments to cover the supply of medical diagnostic equipment, kits and chemicals to 
be used for testing and ongoing maintenance and support services. The agreement 
periods are 5 years (Siemens) and 8 years (Roche). 
Management have prepared an analysis of the contracts and concluded that the 
terms of the agreements, having been assessed against those set out in IAS 17 ‘Leas-
es’, meet the definition of a finance lease as under the agreements.
Management have performed a fair value exercise in order to allocate payments be-
tween the different elements of the arrangements and identify the implicit interest 
rate of the finance lease. Due to the difficulty in reliably splitting the payments for 
the supply of medical equipment from the total payments made, the finance asset 
and liability has been recognised at an amount equal to the fair value of the under-
lying equipment. This is based on the current cost price of the equipment supplied 
provided by the suppliers.  
Impairment of intangible assets A full impairment review only needs to be performed on an annual basis by man-
agement which was carried out in November 2015.  Management were assisted by a 
respected third party to prepare cash flow forecasts for the existing business going 
forward.  The results of the work carried out were that no impairment was required.
SIGn IFICAn t ISSue S
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  52 53
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   ex te Rn Al Au DIto R
KPMG has acted as the Group’s external auditor since ap-
pointment in July 2015, with Mr. Adrian Wilcox having 
been appointed audit partner. We aim to comply with the 
requirement to rotate the audit partner every five years 
and thus the term of appointment of our audit partner is 
expected to end in 2020. 
In accordance with the new Code, and acknowledging the 
Competition and Markets Authority’s proposal that compa-
nies must put their statutory audit engagement out to ten-
der at least every ten years, it is possible that we will tender 
the audit process in 2025, or earlier if KPMG’s performance 
falls short of the Audit Committee’s expectations. In any 
events, we note that under recently published EU require-
ment on auditor rotation, we will be required to replace 
KPMG LLP as our external auditor by 2035 at the latest. 
pRov ISIon o F n on- Au DIt Se Rv ICeS
IDH may, on occasion, retain the external auditor for non-au-
dit services on matters including accounting advice in rela-
tion to acquisitions and divestments, corporate governance 
and risk management advice, among other services.  
The Audit Committee reviews the work completed by the ex -
ternal auditor as well as the provision of non-audit services 
to ensure that the auditor maintains its independence. 
The Audit Committee confirms that during 2015, £260,000 
was paid to KPMG in respect of non-audit work compared 
to an audit fee of £130,000. This non-audit work included 
£160,000 attributable to costs associated with the IPO and 
£95,000 for the half year review. 
ReCom men DAt Ion 
Ultimately, it is the Board’s responsibility to review and 
approve the Group’s full-year and half-year accounts, as 
well as to determine that, taken as a whole, the Annual Re-
port is balanced, understandable and provides the infor-
mation necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. It is the Audit 
Committee’s role to assist the Board in discharging its re-
sponsibilities with regards to financial reporting, external 
and internal audits and controls. Following a review of the 
process around the annual audit and the content of the 
financial statements, the Audit Committee recommended 
to the Board at its meeting on 24 March 2016 the adop-
tion of the financial statements as at 31 December 2015 
and that they provide a true and fair view of the financial 
performance of the Group. 
j ames n olan
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 March 2016
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  54 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  55
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements Remune RAt ion 
committee Repo Rt
In this report from the Remuneration Committee, I outline 
on behalf of my colleagues and myself the basis on which 
Directors and select members of senior management will be 
remunerated for their service in 2015. 
I note in this respect that compensation for the Chairman 
of the Board, the Independent Non-Executive Directors 
and the Executive Directors was agreed and ratified by the 
Board prior to the Group’s initial public offering. Compen-
sation was agreed in principle at a pre-IPO Board meeting 
held in November 2015 and approved in final form at the 
Board meeting held 12 January 2015. 
A detailed discussion of the basis on which the aforemen-
tioned as well (as one key member of senior management) 
were remunerated for their service in 2015 appears below 
and is summarized in tabular form on page 58. 
l on G te Rm In Cent Iv e pl An ( l t Ip)
The creation of a long term incentive plan (LTIP) was approved 
in principle at the pre-IPO Board meeting referenced above. At 
that time and at the meeting of 12 January, the Board specifically 
noted that Dr. Hend El Sherbini (as Executive Director and Group 
Chief Executive) and Lord St John of Bletso (as Chairman) were 
entitled to participate in an LTIP as a condition of their engage-
ment. An LTIP for Dr. El Sherbini was noted in her Service Agree-
ment (as approved in principle at the 12 January 2015 board), 
Hussein Choucri
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  56 while Lord St John of Bletso was specified in his Chairman’s Ap-
pointment Letter (also approved in principle 12 January 2015). 
The Board has delegated the creation of the LTIP to the Re-
muneration Committee. At our meeting of November 2015, 
the Committee agreed to the basic outline and structure 
of a synthetic employee stock option plan (ESOP) for key 
executives. The committee expects the mechanism for the 
synthetic ESOP to be finalized in 2016.
DIReCt oR Com pen SAt Ion In 2015
Executive Director: The Board has approved that Dr. Hend 
El Sherbini will receive an annual salary of US$450,000. In 
each financial year of the Group, Dr. El Sherbini will also re-
ceive an annual award of Shares with a value at the date of 
grant equal to the US dollar equivalent of EGP 450,000 (the 
‘‘Annual Award’’). The number of Shares comprised in each 
Annual Award will be calculated by dividing the US dollar 
equivalent of EGP 450,000 by a reference price (which, other 
than for the first Annual Award, shall be the average quoted 
closing price on the London Stock Exchange of the Shares 
over the last 30 days of the last financial year). She will also 
be eligible to participate in such annual discretionary bonus 
scheme and long term incentive arrangements as may be 
established for executive directors of the Group. This remu-
neration is set forth in a service agreement between Dr. El 
Sherbini and the Group that also outlines additional taxable 
benefits, holiday leave, the mechanism for reimbursement 
of expenses, and the conditions under which the agreement 
may be terminated by her or by the Group. 
      
Chairperson: Lord St John of Bletso is entitled to receive 
an annual award of Shares, calculated based on a notional 
annual fee of US$75,000. The number of Shares attribut-
able to each financial year will be calculated by dividing 
US$75,000 by a reference price (which, other than for the 
first year of the appointment, shall be the average quoted 
closing price on the London Stock Exchange of the Shares 
over the last 30 days of the last financial year). He is entitled 
to the reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Independent Non-Executive Directors: Hussein Choucri, 
James Patrick Nolan and Dan Olsson have been engaged by 
the Group as Independent Non-Executive Directors under 
letters of appointment. They are each entitled to an annual 
fee of US$50,000. The Independent Non-Executive Directors 
are all entitled to the reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Non-Executive Directors: Ahmed Badreldin and Richard 
Henry Phillips have been engaged by the Group as Non-
Executive Directors under letters of appointment. They 
will not be entitled to receive any fee from the Group for 
this role. The Non-Executive Directors are all entitled to 
the reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
A report from Mr. Hussein Choucri,
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Plc. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  57
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements Figures in EGP Base salary 
/ fees
Benefits
1
 Pension
2
 Annual 
bonus
Long term 
incentives
3
 
Total
Executive Director
Dr. Hend El Sherbini 3,458,250 - - 450,000
4
 - 3,908,250
Non-Executive  
Directors
Lord St John of Bletso 583,500
5
 - - - - 583,500
Hussein Choucri 389,001 - - - - 389,001
James Nolan 389,001 - - - - 389,001
Dan Olsson 389,001 - - - - 389,001
Ahmed Badreldin - - - - - -
Richard Phillips - - - - - -
Key senior manage-
ment
9,462,935 - - 3,163,473
6
 - 12,626,407
Remune RAt Ion o F DIReCt oRS An D Sen IoR mAn AGement In 2 015
(Al l FIGu ReS In eGp)
Hussein Choucri
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 March 2016
1 
There are no taxable benefits for any of the directors or senior management of the Group.
2 
The Group does not provide a corporate pension for any of its employees, management or directors. 
3 
The Group does not currently have a long-term incentive plan for an of its employees, management or directors. 
4  
Dr. Hend El Sherbini receives part of her annual bonus in the form of an annual award of Shares with a value at the date of grant equal to the US 
dollar equivalent of EGP 450,000. 
5 
Lord St John of Bletso receives his director’s fees paid in an equivalent value in shares of $75,000.
6  
The Group implements an annual bonus scheme for key senior management in the form of a share in profits recorded in each financial year of 
the Group and is calculated based on performance appraisals and tenure.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  58 st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements
59 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   diRecto Rs’ 
Repo Rt
The statements and reviews on pages 2-37 comprise the 
Strategic Report which contains certain information that 
is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference, 
including indications as to the Group’s likely future busi-
ness developments. 
DIReCt o RS
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2015 and up 
to the date of this report are set out on pages 40-41 and 44 
along with their photographs and biographies. During the 
course of this year, Mr. James Patrick Nolan joined the Board 
of Directors and was named to Chairman of the Audit Com-
mittee. The remuneration of the Directors (including their 
respective share holdings in the Group, where applicable) is 
set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 56-58.
DIReCt o RS’ An D oFFIC eRS’ l IABIl It y 
In Su RAn Ce An D In Demn IFICAt Ion o F 
DIReCt o RS
Subject to the conditions set out in the Companies (Jer-
sey) Law 1991 (as amended), the Group has arranged ap-
propriate Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance to 
indemnify the directors against liability in respect of pro-
ceedings brought by third parties. Such provisions remain 
in force at the date of this report.
pRIn CIpAl ACt Iv It IeS
The Group’s principal activity is the provision of medical 
diagnostics services. An overview of the Group’s principal 
activities is an integral component of the Strategic Review 
included in this Annual Report beginning page 2. 
Bu SIn eSS Rev IeW An D Futu Re Development S
A review of the development and performance of the 
Group’s business forms an integral part of this Annual 
Report in sections including A Note from our CEO (pages 
8-10), Strategic Report (beginning page 2, and particu-
larly the Financial Review beginning page 30). Financial 
statements for 2015 appear in the Audited Financial State-
ments (starting page 67). 
ReSu lt S An D DIv IDen DS
The Group’s Results for 2015 are set out in the Audited Fi-
nancial Statements starting page 66. 
The Board of Directors have recommended that a divi-
dend of US$ 0.06 (six U.S. cents) per share should be paid 
to shareholders of record as at 8 April 2016, with an ex-
dividend date of 7 April 2016. The payment date for the 
dividend is 13 May 2016.
pRIn CIpAl RISk S An D u n CeRt AIn t IeS
The principal risks and uncertainties that may affect IDH’s 
business, as well as their potential mitigants, are outlined 
on pages 26-28 of this Annual Report. 
SHARe CApIt Al
The Group has 150,000,000 ordinary shares each with a 
nominal value of US$ 1.00 issue. All shares are ordinary 
shares only. Note 19 to the consolidated financial state-
ments on page 88 summarizes the rights of the ordinary 
shares as well as the number issued during 2015. An analy-
sis of share holdings is shown on the opposite page.
Su BSt An t IAl SHARe Hol DIn GS
As at 13 2015, the Group had been advised under the Dis-
closure and Transparency Regime, or had ascertained from 
its own analysis, that the following held interests of 3% or 
more of the voting rights of its issued share capital: 
The Directors certify that there are no issued securities that 
carry special rights with regard to control of the Group. 
There are similarly no restrictions on voting rights.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  60 Comm Ittee S o F t He Bo ARD
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remu-
neration Committees. Details of these Committees, includ-
ing membership and their activities during 2015, are con-
tained in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual 
Report and in the Remuneration Report.
Co Rpo RAt e ReSpon SIBIl Ity
The Group’s report on corporate responsibility is set out on 
pages 34-36.
Co Rpo RAt e Gove Rn An Ce
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages 
38-65 and forms part of this Directors’ Report.
ARt ICl eS o F ASSo CIAt Ion
The Group’s Articles of Association set out the rights of 
shareholders including voting rights, distribution rights, 
attendance at general meetings, powers of directors, pro-
ceedings of directors as well as borrowing limits and other 
governance controls. A copy of the Articles of Association 
can be requested from the Group Company Secretary. 
The Articles of Association may be amended by resolution 
of the Board of Directors. 
Rule S on t He Appo In tment An D Rep l ACement 
o F DIReCt o RS
Rules on the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
set out in the Group’s Articles of Association, a copy of which 
may be requested from the Group Company Secretary.
AGReement S Rel At eD to CHAn Ge o F Co nt Ro l 
o F t He GRou p
No such agreements exist. 
Con Fl ICt S o F In te ReSt
During the year no Director held any beneficial interest in 
any contract significant to the Group’s business, other than 
a contract of employment. The Group has procedures set 
out in the Articles of Association for managing conflicts 
of interest. Should a Director become aware that they, or 
their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or 
proposed transaction with the Group, they are required to 
notify the Board as soon as reasonably practicable.
Shareholder Number of voting rights % of voting rights
Hena Holdings Ltd. 38,245,589 25.50
Actis Idn B.v. 31,500,000 21.00
HSBC Global Asset Mgmt (UK) 9,250,153 6.17
Fidelity Management & Research (US) 8,941,465 5.96
Norges Bank Investment Mgt 6,197,321 4.13
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  61
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements pol It ICAl Don At Ion S
The Group made no political donations in 2015.
FIn An CIAl In St Ru ment S
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash bal-
ances, balances with related parties, other payables and receiv-
ables that arise in the normal course of business. The Group’s 
Financial instruments risk management objectives and policies 
are set out in Note 15.2 to the Financial Statements.
employee S
The Group has one (1) executive director, namely Group 
Chief Executive Dr. Hend El Sherbini, as identified in the 
Corporate Governance section; her biographical infor-
mation appears on page 44 of this Annual Report, and her 
compensation is reported in the Remuneration Commit-
tee Report on page 57. IDH has service agreements with 
the Group Chief Executive and with the Group Chief Finan-
cial Officer, Mr. Tarek Hemida, who is not a Company 
director. The Group and its subsidiaries had total of 4,323 
employees as of 31 December 2015 employed in Egypt, 
Jordan and Sudan.
CReDIto R pAy ment pol ICy
Individual subsidiaries of the Group are responsible for 
agreeing on the terms and conditions under which busi-
ness transactions with their suppliers are conducted. It is 
the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with all relevant terms and conditions. Trade 
payables amounted to EGP 70.7 million in 2015, up from 
EGP 59.4 million in 2014, on the back of a change in sup-
plier payment terms from 45 days to 60-90 days. More detail 
available in note 23 of the financial statements. 
po St -BAl An Ce SHeet event S
There are no such events to report. 
GoIn G Con CeRn
Having made inquiries, the Directors have a reasonable ex-
pectation that the Group has adequate resources to meet 
its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the 
date of approval of these consolidated financial statements. 
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in pre-
paring the financial information. The Group’s business ac-
tivities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position, are set out in the 
Strategic Review on pages 2 to 37. The financial position of 
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrow-
ing facilities are described in the financial statements and 
notes thereon on pages 71 to 107.
St At ement o F DIReCt o RS’ ReSpon SIBIl It IeS
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual re-
port and the financial statements in accordance with Inter-
national Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
EU (“IFRS as adopted by the EU”), interpretations from the 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Commit-
tee (“IFRIC”) and Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (as amend-
ed). Jersey Law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year, which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the as-
sets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Group for that year. 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are re-
quired to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, 
comparable, understandable and prudent;
•	 ensure that the financial statements comply with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper ac-
counting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the parent company and 
to enable them to ensure that the financial statements com-
ply with the Jersey Law. The directors are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. The directors are also responsible for 
the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website on the 
internet. However, information is accessible in many differ-
ent countries where legislation governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
that applicable in the United Kingdom and Jersey. 
The Directors of the Group confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge that:
•	 The consolidated financial statements have been pre-
pared in accordance with International Financial Re-
porting Standards, including International Accounting 
Standards and Interpretations adopted by the Inter-
national Accounting Standards Board gives a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the company and the undertakings in-
cluded in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
•	 The sections of this Report, including the Chairman’s 
Statement, Development Manager’s Review, Financial 
Review and Principal Risks and Uncertainties, which 
constitute the management report include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings in-
cluded in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertain-
ties that they face
DISCl o Su Re o F In Fo RmAt Ion to t He Au DIto R
So far as each person who was a director at the date of 
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information, being information needed by the auditor in 
connection with preparing its report, of which the audi-
tor is unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow directors 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  62 st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements
63 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   and the Group’s auditors, each director has taken all the 
steps that he is obliged to take as a director in order to have 
made himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Annu Al Gene RAl meet In G (AGm)
The 2015 AGM will be held at 11:00am BST on 9 May 2016 at 
Hilton London Tower Bridge, London, UK.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees 
as well as all company Directors will be in attendance at the 
AGM to answer questions from shareholders. 
The Group will be making use of the electronic voting 
facility provided by its registrars, Capita Asset Services. 
The facility includes CREST voting for members holding 
their shares in uncertificated form. For further informa-
tion, please refer to the section on online services and 
electronic voting set out in the notes to the Notice of 
Meeting. The notice of the AGM and an explanation of 
the resolutions to be put to the meeting are set out in 
the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report. 
The Board fully supports all the resolutions and encour-
ages shareholders to vote in favour of each of them as 
they intend to in respect of their own share holdings.
During the AGM, all of the Group’s Directors will submit 
their retirement and seek reappointment. 
Au DIto R
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in of-
fice as auditor and separate resolutions will be proposed at 
the forthcoming AGM concerning their reappointment and 
to authorise the Board to agree their remuneration.
By order of the Board
DR. Hen D el SHeRBIn I
Executive Director
24 March 2016
The Group’s 2015 Annual 
General Meeting will be held 
in London on 9 May 2015.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  64 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  65
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements f in An ci Al 
st At ements
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  66 st RAt eGic Repo Rt coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67 IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015   independent Audito R’s 
Repo Rt to t He memBeRs of 
inte GRAte d diAGn ostics 
Holdin Gs plc l imited
We have audited the group financial statements of Integrat-
ed Diagnostics Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 
2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit or loss and Other Com-
prehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related 
notes. The financial reporting framework that has been ap-
plied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
This report is made solely to the Group’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) 
Law 1991. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Group’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Group and the Group’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
ReSpeCt Iv e ReSpon SIBIl It IeS o F DIReCt o RS 
An D Au DIto R
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Re-
sponsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsi-
ble for the preparation of financial statements which give a 
true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit, and express 
an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCo pe o F t He Au DIt o F t He FIn An CIAl 
St At ement S
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circum-
stances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presenta-
tion of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the Annual Re-
port to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially in-
consistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any appar-
ent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  68 op In Ion on FIn An CIAl St At ement S
In our opinion the financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view, in accordance with Internation-
al Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of the group’s profit for the year then ended; and
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
mAt te RS on WHICH We ARe ReQu IReD to 
Repo Rt By ex Cept Ion
We have nothing to report in respect of the following mat-
ters where the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 proper accounting records have not been kept by the 
Group; or
•	 proper returns adequate for our audit have not been re-
ceived from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explana-
tions we require for our audit.
Adrian Wilcox
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP
Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
24 March 2016
n ote S:
•	 The maintenance and integrity of Integrated Diagnos-
tics Holdings plc website is the responsibility of the 
directors; the work carried out by auditors does not in-
volve consideration of these matters and accordingly, 
KPMG LLP accepts no responsibility for any changes 
that may have occurred to the financial statements or 
our audit report since 24 March 2016. KPMG LLP has 
carried out no procedures of any nature subsequent to 
24 March 2016 which in any way extends this date.
•	 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. The directors shall re-
main responsible for establishing and controlling the 
process for doing so, and for ensuring that the financial 
statements are complete and unaltered in any way.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  69
st RAt eGic Repo Rt coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Assets
(as restated
see note 2.2)
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12              337,877                     243,874 
Intangible assets and goodwill 13 1,606,225 1,608,839 
Total non-current assets 1,944,102 1,852,713 
Current assets
Inventories 16 34,326 36,007 
Trade and other receivables 17 117,155 90,075 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 387,716 252,110 
Total current assets 539,197 378,192 
Total assets 2,483,299 2,230,905 
Equity
Share capital 19 1,072,500 1,072,500 
Share premium reserve 19 1,027,706 1,027,706 
Capital reserves 19 (314,310) (314,310)
Legal reserve 19 28,834 26,945 
Put option reserve 19 (64,069) (50,420)
Translation reserve 19 1,193 1,204 
Retained earnings 142,712 -   Share based payment reserve 20 1,034 -   Equity attributable to the owners of the Company 1,895,600 1,763,625 
Non-controlling interests 8 46,873 41,523 
Total equity 1,942,473 1,805,148 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 10 128,427 117,034 
Other provisions 22 10,962 8,978 
Long-term financial obligations 24 60,327 51,002 
Total non-current liabilities 199,716 177,014 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 229,631 125,015 
Borrowings 15 -   45 
 Current tax liabilities 111,479 123,683 
Total current liabilities 341,110 248,743 
Total liabilities 540,826 425,757 
Total equity and liabilities 2,483,299 2,230,905 
These consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and signed on 
their behalf on 24 March 2016 by:
Chief Executive Officer Head of Audit Committee
Dr . Hend El Sherbini James Nolan
Consolidated s t atement 
of f i nan Ci al Position As At December 31, 2015
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  70 Consolidated in Co me 
statement For the Fi n An ci Al Y e Ar e n De D December 31, 2015
Notes
2015 
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
(as restated
see note 2.2)
Revenue 4 1,014,844 860,231 
Cost of sales (467,528) (479,506)
Gross profit 547,316 380,725 
Marketing and advertising expenses (53,688) (49,445)
Administrative expenses (210,417) (72,033)
Other expenses (15,750)                   (8,762)
Operating profit 9 267,461 250,485 
Finance costs (6,380) (9,200)
Finance income 13,412 5,994 
Net finance income/(cost) 9.2 7,032 (3,206)
Profit before tax 274,493 247,279 
Income tax expense 10 (119,521) (105,591)
Profit for the year 154,972 141,688 
Profit attributed to:
      Owners of the Company 144,873 132,769 
      Non-controlling interests 8 10,099 8,919 
154,972 141,688 
Earnings per share (expressed in EGP) 11
Basic and Diluted 0.97 0.89 
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  71
s t rategi C r e Po rt Cor Po rate g o vernan Ce Financial Statement S Consolidated s t atement of 
Profit or l o ss and o t her 
Com Pre hensive i n Co me For the Fi n An ci Al Y e Ar e n De D December 31, 2015
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Net profit 154,972 141,688 
Other comprehensive income:
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries 1,432 1,345 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,432 1,345 
Total comprehensive income for the year 156,404 143,033 
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 144,862 133,623 
Non-controlling interests 11,542 9,410 
156,404 143,033 
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  72 Consolidated statement 
of Ca sh flows
For the Fi n An ci Al Y e Ar e n De D December 31, 2015
Note
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the period before tax 274,493 247,279 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 12 35,840 24,104 
Amortization 13 352 91,481 
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of Property, plant and equipment (138) 481 
Impairment in trade and other receivables 9 9,230 7,556 
Reversal of impairment in trade and other receivables 17 (343) (109)
Provisions made 22 2,881 1,703 
Provisions reversed 22 (6) (872)
Share-based payment charge 20 1,034 -   Interest expense 9.2 6,380 395 
Interest income 9.2 (9,930) (5,956)
Foreign currency exchange (gain) / loss 9.2 (3,482) 8,590 
Net cash from operating activities before changes in working 
capital 316,311 374,652 
Provision used 22 (891) (35)
Change in inventory 1,681  (7,445)
Change in trade and other receivables (36,351) (3,378)
Change in trade and other payables 20,336 10,485 
Cash generated from operating activities before income tax payment 301,086 374,279 
Income tax paid during period (111,224) (72,692)
Net cash from operating activities         189,862              301,587 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 10,477 5,729 
Acquisition of Property, plant and equipment (54,897) (76,089)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 2,003 70 
Net cash flows used in investing activities (42,417) (70,290)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayments of borrowings (45) (382)
Interest paid (4,275) (395)
(Acquisition) / proceeds from change in non-controlling interest (272) 648 
Dividends paid  (6,464) (233,819)
Financial lease (1,711) (66)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (12,767) (234,014)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalent 134,678  (2,717)
Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning of the period 252,110 262,586 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 928  (7,759)
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the period 18 387,716 252,110 
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  73
s t rategi C r e Po rt Cor Po rate g o vernan Ce Financial Statement S Share
Capital 
Share
premium
Capital 
reserve
Legal
reserve*
Put option 
reserve
Translation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Share based 
payment 
reserve
Total 
attributed to 
the owners of 
the Company
Non-
Controlling 
interests
Total
Equity
As at 1 January  1,072,500 1,027,706 (314,310) 26,945 (50,420) 1,204 -   -   1,763,625 41,523 1,805,148 
Profit for the period - - - - - - 144,873 - 144,873 10,099 154,972
Other comprehensive income for the 
period - - - - - (11) - - (11) 1,443 1,432
Total comprehensive income - - - - - (11) 144,873 - 144,862 11,542 156,404
Transactions with owners of the Com-
pany Contributions and distributions  
Dividends**  - - - - - - - - - (6,464) (6,464)
Equity settled share-based payment - - - - - - - 1,034 1,034 - 1,034
Legal reserve formed during the period - - - 1889 - - (1,889) - - - -
Movement in put option liability in the 
year - - - - (13,649) - - - (13,649) - (13,649)
Total contributions and distributions - - - 1,889 (13,649) - (1,889) 1,034 (12,615) (6,464) (19,079)
Change in ownership interests
Non-controlling interests resulting from 
acquisition of subsidiary - - - - - - (272) - (272) 272 -
At 31 December 2015 1,072,500 1,027,706 (314,310) 28,834 (64,069) 1,193 142,712 1,034 1,895,600 46,873 1,942,473
Consolidated statement of Ch anges in equity For the Fi n An ci Al Y e Ar e n De D December 31, 2015
* Under Egyptian Law each subsidiary must set aside at least 5% of its annual net profit into a legal reserve until such time that this represents 50% of each subsidiary’s issued capi-
tal. This reserve is not distributable to the owners of the Company.
** Dividends paid in the period were from subsidiary companies to NCI within the period. No dividends were paid from IDH plc to shareholders
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  74 Share
Capital 
Share
premium
Capital 
reserve
Legal
reserve*
Put option 
reserve
Translation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Share based 
payment 
reserve
Total 
attributed to 
the owners of 
the Company
Non-
Controlling 
interests
Total
Equity
As previously reported -
as at 1 January 2014 318 - 2,100,907 26,777 - 350 (185,700) - 1,942,652 37,370 1,980,022
Prior period restatements see note 2.2 1,072,182 1,027,706 (2,099,888) - (40,982) - (32,516) - (73,498) (1,319) (74,817)
As at 1 January 2014 - as restated 1,072,500 1,027,706 1,019 26,777 (40,982) 350 (218,216) - 1,869,154 36,051 1,905,205
Profit for the period - - - - - - 132,769 - 132,769 8,919 141,688
Other comprehensive income for the 
period - - - - - 854 - - 854 491 1,345
Total comprehensive income - - - - - 854 132,769 - 133,623 9,410 143,033
Transactions with owners of the Com-
pany Contributions and distributions  
Dividends  - - - - - - (229,714) - (229,714) (4,105) (233,819)
Legal reserve formed during the period - - - 168 - - (168) - - - -
Movement in put option liability in the 
year - - - - (9,438) - - - (9,438) - (9,438)
Capital reorganisation - - (315,329) - - - 315,329 - - - -
Shares issued - - - - - - - -
Total contributions and distributions - - (315,329) 168 (9,438) - 85,447 - (239,152) (4,105) (243,257)
Change in ownership interests
Non-controlling interests resulting from 
acquisition of subsidiary - - - - - - - - - 167 167
At 31 December 2014 1,072,500 1,027,706 (314,310) 26,945 (50,420) 1,204 - - 1,763,625 41,523 1,805,148
* Under Egyptian Law each subsidiary must set aside at least 5% of its annual net profit into a legal reserve until such time that this represents 50% of each subsidiary’s issued capi-
tal. This reserve is not distributable to the owners of the Company.
Consolidated statement of Ch anges in equity ( Co nt.)
For the Fi n An ci Al Y e Ar e n De D December 31, 2014
IDH annual re Po rt 2015  75
s t rategi C r e Po rt Cor Po rate g o vernan Ce Financial Statement S n otes to the 
consol Idated f In anc Ia l 
statements
For the Fi nancial Year ended d e cember 31, 2015
1. Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of Integrated Diagnostics Holdings plc and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group) 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 24 
March 2016. Integrated Diagnostics Holdings plc “IDH” or “the company” has been established according to the provisions 
of the Companies (Jersey) law 1991 under No. 117257.
IDH’s purpose is not restricted and the group has full authority to do any activity as long as it is not banned by the Compa-
nies law unless amended from time to time or depending on the Companies (Jersey) law.
The Group’s financial year starts on 1 January and ends on 31 December each year. The Group’s main activity is concen-
trated in the field of medical diagnostics.
2. Basis of accounting
2.1. Basis of preparation
The financial information presented for the comparative year ended 31 December 2014 essentially represents the financial 
performance and position of the same continuing business albeit that the Parent Company of the Group changed in 2014 
as a result of group reorganisation.
On 23 December 2014, as a necessary step to its Initial Public Offering on 06 May 2015, the Company (i.e. Integrated Di-
agnostics Holdings plc), issued 150 million shares to the shareholders of the previous Parent Company of the Group, Inte-
grated Diagnostics Holdings LLC (“Caymans”), in exchange for 100% of the issued shares of Caymans.
The effect of this was to add a new parent company on top of the existing group – this being the only change – prior to its 
flotation and gave rise to reverse acquisition accounting by the new parent company. In considering the requirements of 
IFRS 3, consideration was given as to whether this was a business combination. The conclusion reached by the Directors 
was that this was not a business combination by the new parent company merely the addition of a new holding company to 
a continuing business, i.e., a group reorganisation. The impact, for accounting purposes, of the transaction on 23 December 
2014 was to present the Company as if it had always been the Parent Company of the Group with the consequent continu-
ation of the book values and history previously reported by Caymans, save for alteration of the equity section of the prior 
year’s statement of consolidated financial position to reflect that of the new Parent Company.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Re-
porting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (adopted IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Stan-
dards Board (IASB) and the Jersey Law 1991 an amendment to which means separate company financial statements are 
not required. 
Basis of measurement
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except where adopted IFRS mandates 
that fair value accounting is required.
IDH annual report 2015  76 Functional and presentation currency
Each of the Group’s entities is using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the 
functional currency’). The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Egyptian Pounds, being the report-
ing currency of the main Egyptian trading subsidiaries within the Group and the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates. For each entity, the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial 
statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation 
and on disposal of a foreign operation; the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises 
from using this method.
Going concern
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. At 31 December 2015, the Group 
had net assets amounting to EGP 1,942,473K. The Group is profitable and cash generative and the Directors have consid-
ered the Group’s cash forecasts for a period of 12 months from the signing of the balance sheet. The Directors have a reason-
able expectation that the Group has adequate resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of these condensed consolidated interim financial statements. Thus, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial information.
2.2. Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 Decem-
ber 2015. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
On 23 December 2014 the entire share capital of Integrated Diagnostics Holdings LLC (IDH Caymans) or “the previous par-
ent company”, was acquired by Integrated Diagnostics Holdings plc “IDH” funded by an issue of the equity instruments of 
IDH in exchange for these equity instruments.
There were no changes in rights or proportions of control in (IDH Caymans and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsid-
iary undertakings from time to time “the group”, and after 23 December 2014 (the date after which IDH Caymans ceased 
to be the parent of the group), IDH and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings from time to time “the 
group”) as a result of this transaction.
Whilst, the equity instruments of IDH Caymans were legally acquired, in substance the Directors have determined that 
IDH Caymans is the accounting acquirer of IDH. As such, this transaction has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements are issued in the name of the new legal parent, IDH, but are a continu-
ation of the consolidated financial statements of IDH Caymans. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3: ‘Business 
Combinations’, the consolidated financial statements of IDH Caymans, including comparative information, have been ret-
roactively adjusted to transfer EGP 2,099,888,000 from capital reserve to reflect the legal capital position of IDH as shown 
in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.  No other adjustments have arisen in respect of this reverse acquisition 
accounting.
Various restatements have been made to the balance sheets as at 1january 2014 and 31 December 2014 and for the income 
statement and statement in changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
IDH annual report 2015  77
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S i. As disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the individual amounts within equity as at 1 January 
2014 has been restated. There are three main reasons for these changes being:
a. The push back of the capital structure of IDH to retroactively account for its share capital structure to be that of the 
Group as required by IFRS 3. Previously these changes had mostly been reported as changes in equity during the 
year ended 31 December 2014. 
b. To adjust the share premium to reflect the accounting required in the individual financial statements of IDH as 
required by IAS 27 for its cost of investment in IDH Caymans.
c. The accounting of the put options in the Group see note (iii) below. 
 Only point (c) results in a change in the total amount of the equity as at 1 January 2014 as all others are reallocations 
within equity.
ii. Certain reclassifications of the 31 December 2014 balance sheet have been retroactively adjusted, which are not ma-
terial to the overall financial statements.  A prepayment of EGP 1,088,000 had been included in Property, Plant and 
Equipment which has been re-allocated to trade and other receivables. Certain income tax balances included within 
trade debtors and other receivables of EGP 4,247,000 and other provisions of EGP 9,492,000 have been reallocated to 
current tax liabilities. Included in provisions was an accrual for holiday leave of EGP 729,000 which has been reallo-
cated to trade and other payables.
 These reclassifications to the 31 December 2014 balance sheet do not result in a change to the total equity as at 31 
December 2014.
iii. In addition there has been restatements made to the balance sheets as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 
and to the statement in changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2014 due the existence of NCI put options. 
 Th rough Al Borg the Group made two separate acquisitions in 2011 of Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab and Golden Care Medi-
cal Services.
 Under both the sale and purchase agreement for the two acquisitions the vendors have a put option allowing them 
to force Al Borg to purchase all the remaining equity interest for a formulae agreed e equity value price. The option is 
exercisable in whole from the fifth anniversary of completion of the original purchase agreement being 30 June 2016. 
 At the date of the agreement the put option and the associated liability was not accounted for within the Group finan-
cial statements or on the conversion to IFRS on the 1 September 2012. 
 An adjustment has been made to 1 January 2014 position to correctly reflect this transactions within the Group finan-
cial statements. An initial liability has been recognised for the net present value at 1 January 2014 for the exercise price 
of the option with the corresponding amount recognized as equity within the put option reserve of the Group. The 
initial entry for the put option in Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab being EGP 30,148k and for the put option in Golden Care 
Medical Services being EGP 10,834k with the total liability being EGP 40,982k upon initial recognition.
 The accounting policy for put options after initial recognition is to recognise all changes in the carrying value of the 
put liability within equity. The put liability recognised at 31 December 2014 and at 31 December 2015 year end were as 
follows:
Put Option Liability
31 Dec 2015
EGP’000
31 Dec 2014
EGP’000
Makhbariyoun Al Arab 47,087 36,856
Golden Care Medical Services 16,982 13,564
Total 64,069 50,420
iv. Finally a reclassification of tax related expenses from other expenses to income tax expenses of EGP 5,391,108. This 
reclassification is to present all tax related expenses and credits within income tax expense.
i. Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 
entity. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. The 
acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer. The financial statements of subsidiaries are in-
cluded in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. 
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if do-
ing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
IDH annual report 2015  78 ii. Change in subsidiary ownership and loss of control
Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transac-
tions. Where the group loses control of a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are derecognised along with any related NCI 
and other components of equity.  Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.  Any interest retained in the for-
mer subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation of Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and ex-
penses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-ac-
counted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised 
losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
2 . 3.	 S i g n i fi c a n t 	 a c c o u n t i n g	p o l i c i e s
Except for the changes below, the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently applied to all the years 
presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has adopted the following new standard, including any inconsequential amendments to other standards, with 
a date of initial application of 1 January 2015.
•	 A n n u a l 	 I m p r o v e m e n t s 	 t o	IF R S s	–	2010-2012	Cyc l e	
This new standard had a non-material impact on these consolidated financial statements.
a) Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the ag-
gregate of the consideration transferred, which is measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-con-
trolling interests in the acquiree. For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-
related costs are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification 
and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the 
acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised 
in the statement of profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost (being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for non-controlling interests) and any previous interest held over the net identifiable assets acquired and li-
abilities assumed. If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the 
Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews 
the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in 
an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised 
in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impair-
ment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s 
cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities 
of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit (CGU) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed 
of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when deter-
mining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of 
the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
IDH annual report 2015  79
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S b) Fair value measurement
The Group measures financial instruments such as non-derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets 
and contingent consideration assumed in a business combination, at fair value at each balance sheet date.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as possible. Fair value 
is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:
•	 L e v e l 	1 	 —	 Q u o t e d 	( u n a d j u s t e d ) 	m a r k et 	 p r i c e s 	i n 	a ct i v e	m a r k et s	f o r	i d e n t i c a l 	a s set s 	o r 	l i a b i l i t i e s
•	 L e v e l	 2	 — 	 V a l u a t i o n	 t e c h n i q u e s	 f o r 	 w h i c h	 t h e	 l o w e s t 	 l e v e l 	 i n pu t	 t h a t	 i s	 s i g n i fi c a n t 	 t o	 t h e 	 f a i r 	 va l u e 	 m e a s u r e m e n t 	 i s	 d i-
rectly or indirectly observable
•	 L e v e l 	 3	 —	 V a l u a t i o n	 t e c h n i q u e s 	 f o r	 w h i c h 	 t h e	 l o w e s t 	 l e v e l 	 i n pu t	 t h a t	 i s	 s i g n i fi c a n t 	 t o 	 t h e	 f a i r 	 va l u e 	 m e a s u r e m e n t	 i s	 u n o b-
servable
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group deter-
mines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the na-
ture, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy, as explained above.
The fair value less any estimated credit adjustments for financial assets and liabilities with maturity dates less than one 
year is assumed to approximate their carrying value.   The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is esti-
mated by discounting the future contracted cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for 
similar transactions.
c) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the medical value of medical diagnostic services rendered in the year, and is stated net of discounts. 
The Company has two types of customers: Walk-in patients and patients served under contract. For patients under con-
tract, rates are agreed in advance on a per-test, client-by-client basis. For both types of customers, revenue is recognized 
on completion of the services rendered. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits 
will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is received. Revenue is 
measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of 
payment and excluding taxes or duty.
d) Leases
 i. Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
 At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether the arrangement is or contains a lease.
 At inception or on reassessment of an arrangement that contains a lease, the Group separates out payments and other 
consideration required by the arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their 
relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a finance lease that it is impractical to separate the payments reliably, 
then an asset and a liability are recognized at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying asset; subsequently, 
the liability is reduced as payments are made and an imputed finance cost on the liability is recognised using the 
Group’s incremental borrowing rate.
 ii. Leased assets
 Assets held by the Group under leases that transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are measured initially at an amount equal to the lower of their fair val-
ue and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are accounted 
for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. Assets held under other leases are classified as 
operating leases and are not recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position.
 iii. Lease payments
 Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. 
 Minimum lease payments made under finance leases are apportioned between the finance expense and the reduction 
of the outstanding liability. The finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a 
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
IDH annual report 2015  80 e) Income Taxes
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
 i. Current tax
 Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
 ii. Deferred tax
 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and li-
abilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
 Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. 
 However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred in-
come tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a 
business combination and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised.
 Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the report-
ing date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled.
f) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot 
rates at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign cur-
rencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date.
Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Egyptian Pounds at the rate of ex-
change prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at average rate (unless this 
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which 
case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions). The exchange differences arising on 
translation for consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve or 
NCI as the case may be. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that 
particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at 
the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
g) Property, plant and equipment
All property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.  Historical cost includes expendi-
ture that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can 
IDH annual report 2015  81
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are 
charged to the consolidated statement of income during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated.  
Laboratory Equipment held to perform the ‘Hub spoke’ at the Mega Lab and provided under finance lease arrangements 
are depreciated under a unit of production method as this most closely reflects the consumption of benefits from the 
equipment.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their 
residual value over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Buildings 50 years
Medical, electric and information systems equipment 4-10 years
Leasehold improvements 4-5 years
Fixtures, fittings & vehicles 4-16 years
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater 
than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the 
carrying amount and are recognized within ‘Other (losses)/gains – net’ in the consolidated statement of income.
h) Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles, 
excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or loss in the 
period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an 
intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to 
modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amor-
tisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit or loss in the expense category 
that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually 
or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefi-
nite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over interest 
in net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill ac-
quired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, that is 
expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated 
represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
Brand 
Brands acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date and have an indefinite useful life.
IDH annual report 2015  82 Customer list 
Customer lists acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date and have finite useful 
life. Amortization method on a straight-line basis and the estimated useful live is 4 years, as determined by management.
i) Financial instruments – initial recognition and subsequent measurement
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity in-
strument of another entity.
 i. Financial assets
 Initial recognition and measurement
 Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and 
receivables, AFS financial assets, as appropriate. All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the 
case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset.
 Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or 
convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group com-
mits to purchase or sell the asset.
Subsequent measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in three categories:
•	 F i n a n ci a l 	a s set s 	a t	f a i r 	va l u e	 t h r ou g h 	p r o fi t 	o r 	 l o s s
•	 L o a n s 	 a n d	 r e c ei va b l e s
•	 A F S 	fi n a n ci a l 	 a s set s
The Group did not hold financial assets classified as financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss or AFS finan-
cial assets at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method (“EIR”), less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is in-
cluded in finance income in the statement of profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss in finance costs for loans and in cost of sales or other operating expenses for receivables.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primar-
ily derecognised (i.e. removed from the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position) when:
•	 Th e 	 r i g h t s	t o	 r e c ei v e 	c a s h	fl o w s 	f r o m	t h e	a s set 	h a v e 	e x p i r e d
Or
•	 Th e 	 G r ou p 	 h a s 	 t r a n s f e r r e d	 i t s 	 r i g h t s 	 t o	 r e c ei v e 	 c a s h	 fl o w s	 f r o m	 t h e 	 a s set 	 o r 	 h a s 	 a s s u m e d 	 a n 	 o b l i g a t i o n 	 t o	 p a y	 t h e 	
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) 
the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass- through ar-
rangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. In that case, the Group 
also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the origi-
nal carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
IDH annual report 2015  83
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S Impairment of financial assets
Further disclosures relating to impairment of financial assets are also provided in the following notes:
•	 D i sc l o s u r e s	 f o r	 s i g n i fi c a n t 	e s t i m a t e s 	 a n d 	 a s s u m p t i o n s	 N o t e 	2
•	 F i n a n ci a l 	 a s set s	 N o t e 	15
•	 T r a d e 	 r e c ei va b l e s	 N o t e 	17
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired. An impairment exists if one or more events that has occurred since the initial recognition of the asset (an 
incurred ‘loss event’), has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets 
that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is ex-
periencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they 
will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease 
in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
ii. Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs.
All of the Group’s financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.  The Group does not use derivative financial instruments or hedge account for any transactions. Un-
less otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial liabilities are a reasonable approximation of 
their fair values.
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, finance lease liabilities and loans and borrowings 
including bank overdrafts.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of 
the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recog-
nised in the statement of profit or loss.
iii. Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of fi-
nancial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention 
to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
j )	 I m p a i r m e n t 	 o f 	n o n - fi n a n c i a l 	 a s s e t s
Further disclosures relating to impairment of non-financial assets are also provided in the following notes:
•	 D i sc l o s u r e s 	 f o r	 s i g n i fi c a n t 	a s s u m p t i o n s	a n d 	e s t i m a t e s	 N o t e 	2
•	 G o o d w i l l	a n d	 i n t a n g i b l e	a s set s 	w i t h	i n d e fi n i t e 	l i v e s	 N o t e	14
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The 
recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its re-
coverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair 
value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators.
IDH annual report 2015  84 The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately 
for each of the Group’s CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations generally 
cover a period of five years. A long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the statement of profit or loss in expense categories consis-
tent with the function of the impaired asset, except for properties previously revalued with the revaluation taken to OCI. 
For such properties, the impairment is recognised in OCI up to the amount of any previous revaluation.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication 
that previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impair-
ment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount 
since the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss 
unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 October and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of CGUs) to which the 
goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recog-
nised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually as at 31 October at the CGU level, as ap-
propriate, and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and 
are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized 
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher 
of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows (CGU). Prior impairments of non-financial assets 
(other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
k) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. 
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated selling and distribution 
expenses.
l) Cash and short-term deposits
Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term 
deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part of the Group’s cash 
management. 
m) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, 
for example, under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reim-
bursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement of profit or loss net of any 
reimbursement.
IDH annual report 2015  85
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a 
pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The 
increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense. 
n )	 P e n s i o n s 	a n d	 o t h e r 	 p o s t - e m p l o y m e n t 	b e n e fi t s
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The 
group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to 
pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. Obligations for contributions 
to defined contribution pension plans are recognized as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which 
services are rendered by employees.
o) Share-based payment transactions
The grant-date fair value of equity-settled share-based payment awards granted to employees is generally recognized as 
an expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the vesting period of the awards. The amount recognized as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions 
are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognized is based on the number of awards that meet the related 
service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting 
conditions, the grant-date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no 
true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
p) Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating deci-
sion-maker. The chief operating decision-maker who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of 
the operating segments, has been identified as the steering committee that makes strategic decisions.
The Group has not early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendments that have been issued but not yet ef-
fective for the year ended 31 December 2015. None of these are expected to have a material effect on these consolidated 
financial statements of the Group, except for the following which could change the classification and measurements of 
financial assets.
•	 IF R S 	 9 	 “ F i n a n ci a l 	i n s t r u m e n t s ” 	 ( e x p e ct e d	e ff e ct i v e 	d a t e	o f	J a n u a r y 	2018).
•	 A n n u a l 	 i m p r o v e m e n t s	t o 	IF R S s	- 	2012	 -	2014 	c yc l e 	( e ff e ct i v e 	d a t e	o f	J a n u a r y	2016)
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective date of January 2019) introduces an on balance sheet accounting model for operating leases. The 
Group has significant operating lease commitments through the lease of branches and is anticipated to have a material 
effect when these arrangements are required to be brought on balance sheet.
3 .	 S i g n i fi c a n t 	a c c o u n t i n g 	 j u d g m e n t s , 	e s t i m a t e s 	 a n d 	 a s s u m p t i o n s
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management 
to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabili-
ties. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Other disclosures relating to the Group’s exposure to risks and uncertainties includes:
•	 Ca p i t a l	m a n a g e m e n t	 N o t e 	5
•	 F i n a n ci a l 	i n s t r u m e n t s	r i s k	 m a n a g e m e n t 	a n d	p o l i ci e s	 N o t e 	15
•	 S e n s i t i v i t y 	a n a l y se s 	 d i sc l o s u r e s	 N o t e s 	15
J u d g me n ts
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management have made a material judgment, that affect the ap-
plication of the Group’s lease accounting policy and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and expenses. Information 
about judgment, estimate and assumptions relating to finance leases are set out in note 25.
IDH annual report 2015  86 E s t i m a t e s 	a n d	 a s s u m p t i o n s
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are described below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated 
financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may 
change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are re-
flected in the assumptions when they occur.
I m p ai r me n t	of	i n t a n g i b le	a ss e ts
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives have suffered any impairment. Impair-
ment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of 
its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined 
based on value in use. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived from the budget for the 
next five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future invest-
ments that will enhance the asset’s performance of the CGU being tested. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount 
rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
I m p a i r m e n t	 o f 	 t r a d e	 a n d	n o t e s	 r e c e i v a b l e s
The requirement for impairment of trade receivables is made through monitoring the debts aging and reviewing custom-
er’s credit position and their ability to make payment as they fall due. An impairment is recorded against receivables for the 
irrecoverable amount estimated by management. At the year end, the provision for impairment of trade receivables was 
EGP 17,030k (31 December 2014: EGP 12,138k).
4. Segment information
The group is viewed as a single operating segment, as the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) reviews the 
internal management reports and KPIs of the group as whole and not at a further aggregated level. 
The group operates in three geographic areas, Egypt, Sudan and Jordan. Each area offers similar services and the KPIs of each 
are viewed to be the same and they are not viewed as individual operating segments. The revenue split between the three 
regions is set out below, the combined Sudan and Jordan operations make up less than 10% of the Group’s total revenue.
Revenue by geographic location
For the year ended
Egypt region
EGP’000
Sudan region
EGP’000
Jordan region
EGP’000
Total
EGP’000
31 December 2015 910,886 30,740 73,218 1,014,844 
31 December 2014 768,660 31,527 60,044 860,231 
The operating segment profit measure reported to the CODM is Normalised EBITDA, as follows:
2015 
EGP’000
2014 
EGP’000
Profit from operations 267,461 250,485 
Property, plant and equipment depreciation 35,840 24,104 
Amortization of Intangible assets 352 91,481 
EBITDA 303,653 366,070
Non Recurring Items
IPO Expenses 125,152 8,355 
Closure of Molecular Diagnostics Centre in Cairo 3,429 -   W r i t e 	 o ff 	 o f 	 set	u p 	c o s t s 	f o r 	Q a t a r 	 o ffi c e 	n o w	 n o t 	b ei n g	pu r s u e d 1,051 -   Write-Off of surplus stationary included within inventory 1,558 -   Normalised EBITDA 434,843 374,425 
The operating segment assets and liabilities measure reported to the CODM is in accordance with IFRS as shown in the 
Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
IDH annual report 2015  87
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S 5. Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to re-
duce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends 
paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The repatriation of a declared dividend is subject to regulation by Egyptian authorities. The outcome of an Ordinary Gen-
eral Meeting of Shareholders declaring a dividend is first certified by the General Authority for Investment and Free Zones 
(GAFI). Approval is subsequently transmitted to Misr for Central Clearing, Depository and Registry (MCDR) to distribute 
dividends to all shareholders, regardless of their domicile, following notification of shareholders via publication in two 
national newspapers.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the net debt to equity ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total 
equity. Net debt is calculated as total liabilities (being total current liabilities plus long-term financial obligations) less cash 
and cash equivalents. 
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Total liabilities 401,437 299,745
Less: cash and short-term deposits (Note 18) (387,716) (252,110)
Net debt 13,721 47,635
Total Equity 1,942,473 1,805,148
Capital and net debt 1,928,752 1,757,513
Net debt to equity ratio 0.7% 2.6%
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 December 
2015 and 2014.
Although Sudan sanctions impose restrictions on the distribution of dividends within one year, the amount of undistrib-
uted dividends is not significant to the Group total capital management. Total equity, is as shown in the statements of 
financial position. No funds will be remitted from Sudan in the form of cash payments for services provided or dividends 
from the company until such a time as the sanctions imposed on Sudan are clarified or released. The total of profits that 
could be distributed from Sudan is EGP 4,720K and the amount of cash in Sudan is EGP 16,166K.
6. Group information
Information about subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include:
% equity interest
 
Principal 
activities
Country of
Incorporation 2015 2014
Al Borg Laboratory Company Medical diagnostics service Egypt 99.3% 99.3%
Al Mokhtabar Company for Medical Labs Medical diagnostics service Egypt 99.9% 99.9%
Molecular Diagnostic Center Medical diagnostics service Egypt 99.9% 99.9%
Medical Genetic Center Medical diagnostics service Egypt 55.0% 55.0%
Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab Group 
(Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan) Medical diagnostics service Jordan 60.0% 60.0%
Golden Care for Medical Services Holding company of (Sama) Egypt 75.0% 75.0%
Integrated Medical Analysis Company (S.A.E) Medical diagnostics service Egypt 99.6% 33.3%
SAMA Medical Laboratories Co. 
«Ultralab medical laboratory» Medical diagnostics service Sudan 60.0% 60.0%
AL-Mokhtabar Sudanese Egyptian Co. Medical diagnostics service Sudan 65.0% 65.0%
Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Limited Intermediary holding company Cayman Island 100.0% 100.0%
Full details of the historic acquisitions of the group can be found in the prospectus for the initial public offering by the 
Company dated 6 May 2015 and available at www.idhcorp.com.
IDH annual report 2015  88 7. Business combinations and acquisition of non-controlling interests
A c q u i s i t i o n 	 o f 	 I n t e g r a t e d 	M e d i c a l 	A n a l ys i s 	 C o m p a n y 	( I M A )
At 21 December 2014 and in accordance with Al Mokhtabar Company’s board of directors’ resolution, the company ac-
quired 33.33% of the share capital of Integrated Medical Analysis Company (S.A.E). Integrated Medical Analysis Company 
(S.A.E) was considered a subsidiary of Al Mokhtabar Company even though Al Mokhtabar Company had only a 33.33% 
ownership interest.  The remaining 66.67% was allocated equally between Dr. Momena Kamel (the Chairman of Al Mokhta-
ber), and Mr Amr Helal of Abraaj Group.  Dr. Momena Kamel had waived her rights in the ownership and voting in relation 
to the shares of 83,333 shares held in Integrated Company for Medical Analysis, which accounted for 33.33% of the capital 
paid and Al Mokhtabar shall be considered as the beneficiary owner of these shares until it is completely transferred before 
all the authorities.
As a result the directors of the company consider Al Mokhtabar Company has control over Integrated Medical Analysis 
Company (S.A.E). Al Mokhtabar Company has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of Integrated Medical 
Analysis Company (S.A.E)  unilaterally.
During the current year, Al Mokhtabar Company increased its share equity of the acquiree by 66.25%, as a result, the per-
centage of total shares of the company in Integrated Medical Analysis Company (S.A.E) became 99.58%.
8. Non-Controlling interest
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below:
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests:
Country of 
incorporation 2015 2014
Medical Genetic Center Egypt 45.0% 45.0%
Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab Group (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan) Jordan 40.0% 40.0%
SAMA Medical Laboratories Co.  « Ultra lab medical laboratory « Sudan 40.0% 40.0%
Golden Care for Medical Services Egypt 25.0% 25.0%
Alborg Laboratory Company Egypt 0.7% 0.7%
IDH annual report 2015  89
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below. This information is based on amounts be-
fore inter-company eliminations.
Medical 
Genetic 
Center 
EGP’000
Al 
Makhbariyoun 
Al Arab Group 
(Hashemite 
Kingdom of 
Jordan) 
EGP’000
SAMA
Medical 
Laboratories 
Co.  “Ultralab 
medical 
laboratory “ 
EGP’000
Alborg 
Laboratory 
Company 
EGP’000
Golden 
Care for 
Medical 
Services 
EGP’000
Other 
individually 
subsidiaries 
EGP’000
Intra-Group 
eliminations 
EGP’000
Total  
EGP’000
Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2015:
Revenue 12,468 73,523 24,518 433,944 - 126,063 670,516
Profit 3,818 10,894 4,720 135,008 4,905 29,626 188,971
Other comprehensive 
income - 3,016 850 - - (297) 3,569
Total comprehensive 
income - 3,016 850 - - (297)   3,569
Profit allocated to non-
controlling interest 1,719 4,358 1,888 956 1,226 199 (247) 10,099
Other comprehensive 
income allocated to non-
controlling interest - 1,033 340  -  - 70  - 1,443
Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015:
Non-current assets 920 35,038 4,612 126,539 935 81,428 249,472
Current assets 8,442 17,853 18,765 167,615 9,964 99,458 322,097
Non-current liabilities (2) - - (1,297) - (2,155) (3,454)
Current liabilities (3,239) (12,046) (14,368) (97,957) (144) (66,903) (194,657)
Net assets 6,121 40,845 9,009 194,900 10,755 111,828   373,458
Net assets attributable to 
non-controlling interest 2,756 16,338 3,604 1,379 2,689 (509) 20,616 46,873
Medical 
Genetic 
Center 
EGP’000
Al 
Makhbariyoun 
Al Arab Group 
(Hashemite 
Kingdom of 
Jordan) 
EGP’000
SAMA
Medical 
Laboratories 
Co.  “Ultralab 
medical 
laboratory “ 
EGP’000
Alborg 
Laboratory 
Company 
EGP’000
Golden
Care for 
Medical 
Services 
EGP’000
Other 
individually 
subsidiaries 
EGP’000
Intra-Group 
eliminations 
EGP’000
Total  
EGP’000
Summarised cash flow information for year ended 31 December 2015:
Operating 2,727 13,711 7,254 63,675 (771) 39,823 126,419
Investing 181 (5,665) (1,228) (2,968) - (30,224) (39,904)
Financing (2,759) (9,019) (1,390) (73,933) - 39,750 (47,351)
Net increase/(de-
crease) in cash and 
cash equivalents 149 (973) 4,636 (13,226) (771) 49,349   39,164
Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2014:
Revenue 363,114 60,355 26,298 363,114 - 16,301 829,182
Profit 3,326 12,011 6,385 96,090 3,710 2,995 124,517
Other comprehensive 
income - 922 (511) - - 607 1,018
Total comprehensive 
income - 922 (511) - - 607   1,018
Profit allocated to non-
controlling interest 1,497 4,804 2,554 680 928 (240) (1,304) 8,919
Other comprehensive 
income allocated to non-
controlling interest  - 554 (369)  -  - 306   491
IDH annual report 2015  90 Medical 
Genetic 
Center 
EGP’000
Al 
Makhbariyoun 
Al Arab Group 
(Hashemite 
Kingdom of 
Jordan) 
EGP’000
SAMA
Medical 
Laboratories 
Co.  “Ultralab 
medical 
laboratory “ 
EGP’000
Alborg 
Laboratory 
Company 
EGP’000
Golden
Care for 
Medical 
Services 
EGP’000
Other 
individually 
subsidiaries 
EGP’000
Intra-Group 
eliminations 
EGP’000
Total  
EGP’000
Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014:
Non-current assets 965 30,491 4,001 129,974 935 55,317 221,683
Current assets 8,148 14,229 13,724 158,786 6,507 49,283 250,677
Non-current liabilities (4) - - (1,560) - (50) (1,506)
Current liabilities (5,630) (36,754) (9,823) (150,620) (5,849) (43,234) (251,910)
Net assets 3,479 7,966 7,902 136,580 1,593 61,316   218,944
Net assets attributable to 
non-controlling interest 2,535 14,701 3,929 1,066 1,462 (2,197) 20,027 41,523
Summarised cash flow information for year ended 31 December 2014:
Operating 3,139 13,850 6,968 111,491 (1,037) 1,550 135,961
Investing 991 (6,252) (607) (5,866) - (672) (12,406)
Financing (2,714) (2,719) (914) (93,031) (3,326) - (102,704)
Net increase/(de-
crease) in cash and 
cash equivalents 1,416 4,879 5,447 12,594 (4,363) 878   20,851
9. Expenses and other income
Included in profit and loss are the following:
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Impairment on trade and other receivables 9,230 7,556
Charge for increase in provisions 2,881 1,703
Operating lease payments (buildings) 22,278 17,989
Professional and advisory fees* 138,436 10,524
Amortisation 352 91,481
Depreciation 35,840 24,104
Total 209,017 153,357
* In the year professional and advisory fees included EGP 125 million relating to the costs for the IPO. No shares were issued 
on IPO and so all costs have been expensed.
9 . 1 .	 A u d i t o r ’ s 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n
The group paid or accrued the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial 
statements and for other services provided to the group
2015
E G P ’000  
2014
EGP’000 
Audit of these financial statements 821 -
Amounts receivable by the company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the company 629 614
Audit-related assurance services 1,040 -
Other assurance services 1,994 1,645
4,484 2,259
IDH annual report 2015  91
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S 9 . 2 .	 N e t 	fi n a n c e 	 c o s t s
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Finance cost 
Finance charges payable under finance leases (5,725) (395)
Net foreign exchange loss - (8,590)
Bank Charges (655) (215)
(6,380) (9,200)
Finance income
Interest income 9,930 5,956
Gains on sale of financial investments in investment funds - 38
Net foreign exchange gain 3,482 -
13,412 5,994
Net finance income/(expense) 7,032 (3,206)
9 . 3.	 E m p l o y e e	n u m b e r s 	a n d	 c o s t s
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including directors) during the year and the aggregate payroll 
costs of these persons, analysed by category, were as follows:
2015 2014
Medical Administration Total Medical Administration Total 
Average number of employees 3,917 406 4,323 3,680 348 4,028
Wages and salaries 148,604 43,229 191,833 120,144 34,219 154,363
Social security costs 9,238 1,818 11,056 5,526 1,305 6,831
Contributions to defined contribution 
plan 2,216 386 2,602 1,893 354 2,247
Equity settled shared based payments - 1,034 1,034 - - -
Total 160,058 46,467 206,525 127,563 35,878 163,441
Details of Directors’ and Key Management remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report 
and note 26.
10. Income tax 
a )	 A m o u n t s 	 r e c o g n i s e d	i n 	p r o fi t 	o r	l o s s
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Current tax:
Current year (108,128) (121,944)
Deferred tax:
Effect of reduction in tax rate to 22.5% 13,139 -
Deferred tax arising on change in tax legislation relating to undistributed reserves 
in subsidiaries (22,614) -
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,918) 16,353
Tax expense recognised in profit or loss (119,521) (105,591)
IDH annual report 2015  92 b )	 Re c o n c i l i a t i o n	 o f 	 e f f e c t i v e 	t a x 	r a t e
The Company is treated as a tax resident of Jersey for the purpose of Jersey tax laws and is subject to a tax rate of 0%. The 
current income tax charge for the Group represents tax charges on profits arising in Egypt, Jordan and Sudan.  The sig-
nificant profits arising within the group subject to corporate income tax are generated from the Egyptian operations and 
subject to 22.5% (2014: 30%) tax rate. The reconciliation of effective income tax rate has been performed using this rate.
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Profit before tax 274,493 247,279
Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in Egypt of 22.5% (2014: 30%) 61,761 74,184
Effect of tax rate in Jersey of 0% (2014: 0%) 27,985 -
Effect of tax rates in Jordan and Sudan of 15% (2014: 15%) (805) (3,497)
Tax effect of:
Unrecognised tax losses -
Change in unrecognized deferred tax assets (1,476) (1,419)
Deferred tax arising on undistributed reserves 22,614 -
Reduction in tax rate on deferred tax balances (13,139) -
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes - employee profit share 7,549 7,531
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes - other 15,032 28,792
Tax expense recognised in profit or loss 119,521 105,591
Deferred tax
Deferred tax relates to the following:
2015 2014
Assets
EGP’000
Liabilities
EGP’000
Assets
EGP’000
Liabilities
EGP’000
Property, plant and equipment - (5,668) - (3,990)
Intangible assets - (102,113) - (115,158)
Undistributed reserves from group subsidiaries* - (22,614) - -
Provisions 1,968 -  2,114 -
Net deferred tax liability (128,427) (117,034)
* Undistributed reserves from group subsidiaries
The Group’s dividend policy is to distribute any excess cash after taking into consideration all business cash requirements 
and potential acquisition considerations. The expectation is to distribute profits held within subsidiaries of the Group in 
the near foreseeable future. During 2015 the Egyptian 
Government imposed a tax on dividends at a rate of 5% of dividends distributed from Egyptian entities. As a result a de-
ferred tax liability has been recorded for the future tax expected to be incurred from undistributed profits held within the 
Group which will be taxed under the new legislation imposed and were as follows:
2015
EGP’000
Al Mokhtabar Company for Medical Labs 8,859
Alborg Laboratory Company 5,776
Integrated Medical Analysis Company 2,192
Molecular Diagnostic Center 2,724
Golden Care for Medical Services 677
Medical Genetics Center 236
Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab Group 2,150
22,614
IDH annual report 2015  93
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Net tax which creates a liability at the end of the period (128,427) (117,034)
Less:
Net tax resulting in tax liability at the beginning of  period 117,034 133,387
Deferred tax (expense)/income (11,393) 16,353
Unrecognized deferred tax assets 
The following deferred tax assets were not recognized due to the uncertainty that those items will have a future tax benefit:
2015 
EGP’000
2014 
EGP’000
Impairment of trade receivables (Note 17) 17,030 12,138
Impairment of other receivables (Note 17) 10,110 9,036
Provision for legal claims (Note 22) 2,967 2,372
30,107 23,546
Unrecognized deferred tax asset based on enacted tax rate 2015: 22.5% 
(2014: 30%) 6,774 7,064
Tax Status
A) Amendments to Egyptian Tax law
The profits of Egyptian subsidiaries within the Group are subjected to corporate tax according to income tax law No. 91 of 
2005 and the general applicable tax rate on all Egyptian corporations is 25%. However, the Egyptian Government imposed 
an additional 5% tax on corporations with income in excess of EGP 1.0 million beginning on January 1, 2014. Accordingly, 
we applied this tax rate in 2014. The Egyptian Government reduced the tax rate to 22.5% beginning in January 2015, and the 
Egyptian Government imposed tax on dividends paid by the company to its shareholders (non-resident natural persons and 
to corporate bodies, whether resident or non-resident) will be subject to withholding tax at a rate determined by the percent-
age of an investor’s shareholding in the Issuer, except for dividends in the form of bonus shares. Shareholders holding 25% or 
more of the Issuer’s share capital or voting rights will be subject to tax on dividends at a rate of 5% of the distributed dividend 
(without deducting any costs or expenses), provided they hold the shares for minimum two years Shareholders holding less 
than 25% of the Issuer’s share capital or voting rights will be subject to tax on dividends at a flat rate of 10% (without deduct-
ing any costs or expenses), which have been applied accordingly when calculating current and deferred tax in 2015. 
B) Integrated Diagnostics Holdings plc – “IDH” 
Integrated Diagnostics Holdings plc “IDH” has been established according to the provisions of the Companies (Jersey) law 
1991 under No. 117257. The company is subject to tax in Jersey at 0% in accordance with Jersey law.
11. Earnings per share (EPS) 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weight-
ed average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. There are no dilutive effects from ordinary share and no 
adjustment required to weighted-average numbers of ordinary shares. 
The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computation:
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for basic earnings 144,873 132,769
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic and dilutive EPS 150,000 150,000
Basic and dilutive earnings per share (expressed in EGP) 0.97 0.89
There is no dilutive effect from equity settled share based payment arrangements detailed in note 20. Shares issued by the 
Company under the arrangement will be purchased from the market on the award date and no shares are held in treasury.
IDH annual report 2015  94 12. Property, plant and equipment
Land & 
Buildings
EGP’000
Medical, 
electric & 
information 
system 
equipment
EGP’000
Le a s e h o ld       
improvements
EGP’000
Fixtures, 
fittings & 
vehicles
EGP’000
Building & 
Leasehold 
improvements 
in construction
EGP’000
Total
EGP’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 124,960 80,211 40,155 23,073 10,218 278,617
Additions - 11,577 8,127 2,447 53,813 75,964
Disposals - (60) (408) (82) - (550)
Exchange differences 183 (86) (96) 300 - 301
Transfers 3,960 1,712 4,546 - (10,218) -
At 31 December 2014 129,103 93,354 52,324 25,738 53,813 354,332
Additions - 95,422 24,788 5,094 3,144 128,448
Disposals - (9,179) (1,391) (584) - (11,154)
Exchange differences 509 1,697 551 1,701 78 4,536
Transfers 38,000 15,459 - - (53,459) -
At 31 December 2015 167,612 196,753 76,272 31,949 3,576 476,162
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 14,089 48,263 15,901 8,005 - 86,258
Depreciation charge for the year 2,434 12,900 6,665 2,105 - 24,104
Exchange differences 59 (28) (31) 96 - 96
At 31 December 2014 16,582 61,135 22,535 10,206 - 110,458
Depreciation charge for the year 2,600 21,390 9,726 2,124 - 35,840
Disposals - (7,588) (1,335) (367) - (9,290)
Exchange differences 149 466 162 500 - 1,277
At 31 December 2015 19,331 75,403 31,088 12,463 - 138,285
           
Net book value At 31 December 
2015 148,281 121,350 45,184 19,486 3,576 337,877
At 31 December 2014 112,521 32,219 29,789 15,532 53,813 243,874
Leased equipment
EGP 74m of medical and electric equipment was supplied under finance lease arrangements during the year ended 31 De-
cember 2015. This equipment was supplied to service the Group’s new state of the art Mega Lab, The Mega Lab. The equip-
ment secures lease obligations, see note 25 for further details on the recognition and the leasing arrangement.
IDH annual report 2015  95
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S 13. Intangible assets
Goodwill
EGP’000
Brand Name
EGP’000
Customer list
EGP’000
Supplier list
EGP’000
Non to 
compete 
agreement
EGP’000
Total
EGP’000
Cost
At 31 December 2014 1,234,432 374,055 17,043 240,812 64,722 1,931,064
Effect of movements in ex-
change rates (3,233) 971 - - - (2,262)
At 31 December 2015 1,231,199 375,026 17,043 240,812 64,722 1,928,802
           
Amortisation and impair-
ment
At 1 January 2014 - - 11,766 176,846 42,132 230,744
Amortisation - - 4,925 63,966 22,590 91,481
At 31 December 2014 - - 16,691 240,812 64,722 322,225
Amortisation - - 352 - - 352
At 31 December 2015 - - 17,043 240,812 64,722 322,577
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 1,231,199 375,026 - - - 1,606,225
At 31 December 2014 1,234,432 374,055 352 - - 1,608,839
1 4.	 G o o dw ill	a n d	i n t a n g i b l e 	a s s e t s	w i t h	 i n d e fi n i t e 	 li v e s
Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to the Group’s 
CGUs as follows:
 2015
EGP’000
 2014
EGP’000
Molecular Diagnostic Center 
Goodwill 1,849 1,849
1,849 1,849
Medical Genetics Center
Goodwill 1,755 1,755
1,755 1,755
Al Makhbariyoun Al Arab Group (“Biolab”)
Goodwill 20,576 16,041
Brand name 9,965 7,769
30,541 23,810
Golden Care for Medical Services (“Ultralab”)
Goodwill 10,641 18,409
Brand name 1,677 2,902
12,318 21,311
Alborg Laboratory Company (“Al-Borg”)
Goodwill 497,275 497,275
Brand name 142,066 142,066
639,341 639,341
Al Mokhtabar Company for Medical Labs (“Al-Mokhtabar”)
Goodwill 699,102 699,102
Brand name 221,319 221,318
920,421 920,420
Balance at 31 December 1,606,225 1,608,486
The Group performed its annual impairment test in October 2015. The Group considers the relationship between its mar -
ket capitalisation and its book value, among other factors, when reviewing for indicators of impairment.
IDH annual report 2015  96 K e y	 a s s u m p t i o n s 	u s e d 	i n	 v a l u e 	i n	 u s e	 c a l c u l a t i o n s 	a n d 	 s e n s i t i v i t y 	 t o	c h a n g e s 	i n 	a s s u m p t i o n s 	
IDH instructed FinCorp Investment holding (referred to hereafter as “Fincorp”) an independent financial advisor, to pre-
pare an independent impairment assessment of the Group’s CGUs. The assessment was carried out based on business 
plans provided by IDH.  These plans have been prepared based on criteria set out below: 
Ultra Lab Bio Lab Al-Mokhtabar Al-Borg
Annual revenue growth rates 9% 11% 8% 9%
Average revenue per branch 1,933 600 3,227 3,382
EGP’000
Average gross margin 53% 43% 63% 55%
Annual growth in costs 9% 11% 8% 9%
Terminal value growth rate from 1 January 2021 2% 2% 3% 3%
Discount rate 25.2% 18.5% 16.8% 16.8%
Fincorp has prepared discounted cash flow projections using the key assumptions above so as to be able to calculate the 
net present value of the asset in use and determine the recoverable amount. The projected cash flows from 2016- 2020 have 
been based on detailed forecasts prepared by management for each CGU and a terminal value thereafter. Management 
have used past experience and historic trends achieved in order to determine the key growth rate and margin assumptions 
set out above. The terminal value growth rate applied is not considered to exceed the average growth rate for the industry 
and geographic locations of the CGUs. 
This recoverable amount is then compared to the carrying value of the asset as recorded in the books and records of IDH 
plc.  The discount rate is the pre-tax rate taking into account the risks of each CGU. 
These risks include country risk, currency risk as well as the beta factor relating to the CGU and how it performs relative 
to the market. 
 The conclusions from the impairment review were that there was significant headroom within the forecasts and therefore 
no impairment is required.
1 5 .	 F i n a n c i a l 	 a s s e t s 	a n d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	li a b ili t i e s
1 5. 1 .	 F i n a n c i a l	a s s e t s	 a n d	fi n a n c i a l 	l i a b i l i t i e s
The fair values of all financial assets and financial liabilities by class shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalent 387,716 252,110
Trade and other receivables 117,155 90,075
Total financial assets 504,871 342,185
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Trade and other payables 151,320 124,157
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings - 45
Put option liability 64,069 50,420
Finance lease liabilities 74,569 1,440
Total financial liabilities 289,958 176,062
Total financial instruments 214,913 166,123
The fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments are the same as their carrying values. All financial instruments 
are deemed Level 3.
1 5. 2 .	 F i n a n c i a l	i n s t r u m e n t s 	r i s k 	m a n a g e m e n t 	o b j e c t i v e s 	 a n d	 p o l i c i e s
The Group’s principal financial liabilities are trade and other payables, put option liability and finance lease liabilities. The 
Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly 
from its operations.
IDH annual report 2015  97
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on 
the unpredictability of markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The 
Group’s senior management oversees the management of these risks. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies 
for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. 
The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such 
as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative finan-
cial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity 
price risk and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.    
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 December in 2015 and 2014. The sensitivity 
analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt 
and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant.
The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the carrying values of pension and other post-
retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses:
•	 Th e 	 se n s i t i v i t y 	 o f	 t h e 	 r e l e va n t 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o f	 p r o fi t 	 o r 	 l o s s 	 i t e m 	 i s	 t h e 	 e ff e ct 	 o f 	 t h e	 a s s u m e d 	 c h a n g e s 	 i n	 r e s p e ct i v e	 m a r k et	
risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2015 and 2014 including the effect 
of hedge accounting.
•	 Th e 	 se n s i t i v i t y 	 o f 	 e q u i t y	 i s	 c a l c u l a t e d 	 b y	 c o n s i d e r i n g 	 t h e 	 e ff e ct 	 o f 	 a n y 	 a s s o ci a t e d 	 c a s h	 fl o w 	 h e d g e s 	 a n d 	 h e d g e s 	 o f	 a 	 n et	
investment in a foreign subsidiary at 31 December 2015 for the effects of the assumed changes of the underlying risk.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. During the year ending 2015 the Group was not exposed to the risk of changes in floating 
interest rates. The only interest-bearing financial liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2015 were for finance lease 
liabilities held and disclosed in note 25. The implicit interest rate for the finance leases in place was estimated to be 11.5%.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the 
Group’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency) and the Group’s net invest-
ments in foreign subsidiaries.
The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, pri-
marily with respect to the US Dollar, Sudanese Pound and the Jordanian Dinar. Foreign exchange risk arises from future 
commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. However, the man-
agement aims to minimize open positions in foreign currencies to the extent that is necessary to conduct its activities.
Management has set up a policy to require group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional 
currency. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are denomi-
nated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency.
The group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. 
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the group’s foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings 
denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
IDH annual report 2015  98 At year end, major financial assets / (liabilities) in foreign currencies were as follows (the amounts presented are shown in 
the foreign currencies):
2015
Assets
’000
Liabilities
’000
Net exposure
’000
US Dollar 12,581 (1,958) 10,623
Euros 87 (126) (39)
GBP 11 (8) 3
JOD 1,642 (5,425) (3,783)
SDG 16,831 (17,652) (821)
2014
Assets
’000
Liabilities
’000
Net exposure
’000
US Dollar 15,389 (345) 15,044
Euros 1,176 (59) 1,117
JOD 300 (3,666) (3,366)
SDG 9,630 - 9,630
The following is the exchange rates applied against EGP:
Average rate for the year ended
2015 2014
US Dollar 7.70 7.09
Euros 8.48 9.34
GBP 11.73 11.63
JOD 10.81 10.04
SAR 2.05 1.89
SDG 1.20 1.14
Spot rate at the year ended against EGP
31-Dec-15 31-Dec-14
US Dollar 7.78 7.15
Euros 8.46 8.68
GBP 11.52 11.11
JOD 10.90 10.11
SAR 2.07 1.9
SDG 1.28 1.1
At 31 December 2015, if the Egyptian Pounds had weakened / strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other vari-
ables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been increased / decreased by EGP 8,264k (2014: EGP 10,757k) 
higher / lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of US dollar-denominated financial assets 
and liabilities. 
At 31 December 2015, if the Egyptian Pounds had weakened / strengthened by 10% against the Jordanian Dinar with all 
other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year / period would have been increased / decreased by EGP (4,124)k 
(2014: EGP (3,403)k) higher / lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of JOD - denominated 
financial assets and liabilities.
IDH annual report 2015  99
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S At 31 December 2015, if the Egyptian Pounds had weakened / strengthened by 10% against the Sudanese Pound with all 
other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year / period would have been increased / decreased by EGP (105)k 
(2014: EGP 1,059k ) higher / lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of SDG -denominated 
financial assets and liabilities.
Price risk
The group does not have investments in equity securities or bonds and accordingly is not exposed to price risk related to 
the change in the fair value of the investments.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, 
leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and 
from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and 
other financial instruments. 
Credit risk is managed on group basis, except for credit risk relating to accounts receivable balances. Each local entity is 
responsible for managing and analysing the credit risk for each of their new clients before standard payment and delivery 
terms and conditions are offered. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables 
and committed transactions. 
For banks and financial institutions, the Group is only dealing with the banks which have a high independent rating and a 
good reputation.
Trade receivables
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an individual credit limits 
are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored at 31 December 
2015.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. In addition, a large 
number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The calcula-
tion is based on actual incurred historical data. The Group does not hold collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed 
in Note 17. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in ac-
cordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within 
credit limits assigned to each counterparty. Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Group’s Board of Directors on 
an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year subject to approval of the Group’s management. The limits are 
set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through a counterparty’s potential failure 
to make payments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents disclosed in 
Note 18.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of finance 
leases and loans.
IDH annual report 2015  100 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted 
payments:
1 year or less
EGP’000
1 to 5 years
EGP’000
more than 5 years
EGP’000
Total
EGP’000
Year ended 31 December 2015        
Obligations under finance leases 22,321 62,681 21,375 106,377
Put option liability 69,956 - - 69,956
Trade and other payables 151,320 - - 151,230
243,597 62,681 21,375 327,653
Year ended 31 December 2014      
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 45 - - 45
Obligations under finance leases 858 582 - 1,440
Put option liability - 66,254 66,254
Trade and other payables 124,157 -  - 124,157
125,060 66,836 - 191,896
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the group and aggregated by group finance. Group finance 
monitors rolling forecasts of the group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs. 
Such forecasting takes into consideration the group’s compliance with internal financial position ratio targets and, if ap-
plicable external regulatory or legal requirements – for example, currency restrictions.
The group’s management retain cash balances in order to allow repayment of obligations in due dates, without taking into 
account any unusual effects which it cannot be predicted such as natural disasters. All suppliers and creditors will be re-
paid over a period of 45 days from the date of the invoice or the date of the commitment.
16. Inventories
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Chemicals and operating supplies 34,326 36,007
34,326 36,007
During 2015, EGP 172,354k (2014: EGP 163,867k) was recognised as an expense for inventories carried at net realisable 
value. This was recognised in cost of sales.
17. Trade and other receivables
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Trade receivables 100,033 74,427
Prepaid expenses 13,467 10,446
Receivables due from related parties 465 1,808
Other receivables 2,143 2,894
Accrued revenue 1,047 500
117,155 90,075
For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to Note 26.
IDH annual report 2015  101
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S As at 31 December 2015, trade and other receivables with an initial carrying value of EGP 27,140k (2014: EGP 21,174k) were 
impaired and fully provided for. Below shows the movements in the provision for impairment of trade and other receiv-
ables: 
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
At 1 January 21,174 16,213
Net increase during the year 9,230 7,556
Utilised during the year (2,921) (2,486)
Unused amounts reversed (343) (109)
At 31 December 27,140 21,174
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Total
EGP’000
1 - 30 days
EGP’000
30-60 days
EGP’000
61-90 days
EGP’000
Over 90 days
EGP’000
2015 100,033 29,508 28,774 20,668 21,083
2014 74,427 25,698 11,293 9,896 27,540
18. Cash and cash equivalent
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Cash at banks and on hand 124,332 66,334
Short-term deposits 263,384 185,776
387,716 252,110
EGP 16,166K (2014: EGP 10,896K) of total cash and cash equivalents are held in subsidiaries operating in Sudan. Prior ap-
proval is required to transfer these funds abroad.
Cash at banks earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying 
periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn 
interest at the respective short-term deposit rates ranging from 7%- 8% per annum.
19. Share capital
The Company’s ordinary share capital is $150,000,000 equivalent to EGP 1,072,500,000.
Ordinary shares
31 December
2015
Ordinary shares
31 December 
2014
In issue at beginning of the year 150,000,000 -
Issued during the year - 150,000,000
In issue at the end of the year 150,000,000 150,000,000
On 23 December 2014, as a necessary step to its Initial Public Offering on 11 May 2015, the Company (i.e. Integrated Diag-
nostics Holdings plc),  issued 150 million shares to the shareholders of the previous Parent Company of the Group, Inte-
grated Diagnostics Holdings LLC (“Caymans”), in exchange for 100% of the issued shares of Caymans. This created a share 
premium of $130,026,958 equivalent to EGP 929,693,000.
There were no changes in rights or proportions of control in Caymans and its consolidated subsidiaries, and after 23 De-
cember 2014 (the date after which Caymans ceased to be the parent of the group) IDH and its consolidated subsidiaries as 
a result of this transaction.
Whilst, the equity instruments of Caymans were legally acquired, in substance the Directors have determined that Cay-
mans is the accounting acquirer of IDH. As such, this transaction has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
IDH annual report 2015  102 C a p i t a l	r e s e r v e
Balances have arisen in the capital reserve when the Group’s previous parent company, Integrated Diagnostics Holdings 
LLC – IDH (Caymans) arranged its own acquisition by Integrated Diagnostics Holdings PLC, a new legal parent. The bal-
ances arising represent the difference between the value of the equity structure of the previous and new parent companies. 
When the capital position of the parent company is rearranged, the capital reserve is adjusted appropriately such that the 
equity balances presented in the Group accounts best reflect the underlying structure of the Group’s capital base.
L e g a l	r e s e r v e s
Legal reserve was formed based on the legal requirements of the Egyptian law governing the Egyptian subsidiaries. Ac-
cording to the Egyptian subsidiaries’ article of association 5% (at least) of the annual net profit is set aside to from a legal 
reserve. The transfer to legal reserve ceases once this reserve reaches 50% of the entity’s issued capital. If the reserve falls 
below the defined level, then the entity is required to resume forming it by setting aside 5% of the annual net profits until it 
reaches 50% of the issued share capital.
P u t	o p t i o n 	r e s e r v e	
Through acquisitions made within the Group, put option arrangements have been entered into to purchase the remaining 
equity interests in subsidiaries from the vendors at a subsequent date. At acquisition date an initial put option liability is 
recognised and a corresponding entry recognised within the put option reserve. After initial recognition the accounting 
policy for put options is to recognise all changes in the carrying value of the liability within put option reserve. When the 
put option is exercised by the vendors the amount recognised within the reserve will be reversed.
T ra nsla ti o n	r e s e r v e
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.
20. Equity settled share based payment arrangements
The Company has established annual equity awards for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer receive annually the number of ordinary shares in the Company equal to US$75,000 and EGP 450,000 
(at the prevailing USD:EGP conversion rate on the date of grant), respectively and is deemed to be the fair value of the ar-
rangement. In each case, the number of shares attributable to the award will be calculated by dividing the notional dollar 
amount of the award (pro-rated as necessary to reflect their actual service in their first and last years of service) by a refer-
ence price. In the case of their first award, the reference price shall be the price at which the ordinary shares were acquired 
by new investors in the Company’s IPO. For each subsequent financial year of service, the reference price shall be the aver-
age quoted closing price of the ordinary shares on the London Stock 
Exchange over the last 30 days of that financial year (provided that, if such 30 day period would otherwise fall within a 
close period, the Company’s board of directors shall determine the appropriate reference period in its absolute discretion).
The grant and vesting of each Annual Award and the release of any shares will be subject to such other conditions as the 
Company may determine in its absolute discretion after prior discussion with the Executives. The first Annual Award to be 
made under this agreement has been granted by year end.
21. Distributions made and proposed
2015 
EGP’000
2014 
EGP’000
Cash dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid:
Dividend paid - 229,714
- 229,714
Proposed dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for the year 2015: US$0.06 per share
(2014: nil) per share 70,020 -
The proposed 2015 dividend on ordinary shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and is not recognised 
as a liability as at 31 December 2015.
IDH annual report 2015  103
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S 22. Provision
Egyptian 
Government T raining 
Fund for employees
EGP’000
Provision
for legal claims
EGP’000
Total
EGP’000
At 1 January 2015 6,606 2,372 8,978
Provision made during the year 1,389 1,492 2,881
Provision used during the year - (891) (891)
Provision reversed during the year - (6) (6)
At 31 December 2015 7,995 2,967 10,962
Current - - -
Non- Current 7,995 2,967 10,962
At 1 January 2014 5,579 2,603 8,182
Provision made during the year 1,027 676 1,703
Provision used during the year - (35) (35)
Provision reversed during the year - (872) (872)
At 31 December 2014 6,606 2,372 8,978
Current - - -
Non- Current 6,606 2,372 8,978
E m p l o y e e s 	t r a i n i n g	p r o v i s i o n
The provision for employees training fund have been provided for in accordance with the Egyptian law and regulations.
L e g a l 	 c l a i m s	p r o v i s i o n
The amount comprises the gross provision in respect of legal claims brought against the Group. Management’s opinion, af-
ter taking appropriate legal advice, is that the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond 
the amounts provided as at 31 December 2015.
23. Trade and other payables
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Trade payables 70,743 59,351
Accrued expenses 73,747 57,738
Other payables 6,830 7,068
Put option liability 64,069 -
Finance lease liabilities 14,242 858
229,631 125,015
2 4.	 L o n g- t e r m	fi n a n c i a l 	o b li g a t i o n s
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Put option liability - 50,420
Finance lease liabilities (see note 25) 60,327 582
60,327 51,002
Through acquisitions made within the Group, put option arrangements have been entered into to purchase the remaining 
equity interests in subsidiaries from the vendors at a subsequent date. At acquisition a put option liability has been recog-
nised for the net present value for the exercise price of the option.
IDH annual report 2015  104 25. Commitments and contingencies
O p e r a t i n g 	 l e a s e 	c o m m i t m e n t s 	
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015 
EGP’000
2014 
EGP’000
Less than one year 21,706 20,033
Between one and five years 68,817 73,680
More than five years 37,450 50,644
127,973 144,357
The Group lease certain branches for the operation of the business. During the year EGP 22,278K was recognised as an 
expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases (2014: EGP 17,989K).
Finance lease 
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery. Future minimum lease payments under finance 
leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows:
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Finance lease liability – laboratory equipment 74,023 858
Finance lease liability – other 461 582
74,484 1,440
Finance lease liabilities for the laboratory equipment are payable as follows:
Minimum lease 
payments
2015
EGP’000
Interest
2015
EGP’000
Principal
2015
EGP’000
Less than one year 21,860 7,965 13,895
Between one and five years 62,681 20,290 42,391
More than five years 21,375 3,638 17,737
105,916 31,893 74,023
The Group entered into 2 significant agreements during the period ended 31 December 2015 to service the Group’s new 
state-of-the-art Mega Lab.
Both agreements have minimum annual commitment payments to cover the supply of medical diagnostic equipment, kits 
and chemicals to be used for testing and ongoing maintenance and support services over the term of the agreement. The 
agreement periods are 5 and 8 years which is deemed to reflect the useful life of the equipment.
If the minimum annual commitment payments are met over the agreement period ownership of the equipment supplied 
will legally transfer to the IDH. Management fully expect to be able to fulfil the minimum payments and the basis of treating 
the proportion of payments relating to the supply of equipment as a finance lease.
Management have performed a fair value exercise in order to allocate payments between the different elements of the ar-
rangements and identify the implicit interest rate of the finance lease. Due to the difficulty in reliably splitting the payments 
for the supply of medical equipment from the total payments made, the finance asset and liability has been recognised at 
an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying equipment. This is based on the current cost price of the equipment 
supplied provided by the suppliers of the agreement. The implicit interest rate of both finance leases has been estimated to 
be 11.5%. The equipment is being depreciated based on units of production method as this most closely reflects the con-
sumption of the benefits from the equipment. 
C o n ti n g e n t	li a b ili ti e s
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the group’s transactions and commitment with banks.
IDH annual report 2015  105
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S 26. Related party disclosures
The significant transactions with related parties, their nature volumes and balance during the period 31 December 2015 
and 2014 are as follows:
31-Dec-15
Related Party Nature of transaction
Nature of 
relationship
Transaction 
amount
in the year
EGP’000
Amount
due from
EGP’000
Health-care Tech Company Expenses paid on behalf Affiliate* 75 188
Life Scan (S.A.E) Expenses paid on behalf    Affiliate** 277 277
Integrated Treatment for Kidney Diseases 
(S.A.E)
Entity owned by 
Company’ s CEO -
Rental income 274
Total 465
31-Dec-14
Related Party Nature of transaction
Nature of 
relationship
Transaction 
amount
in the year
EGP’000
Amount
due from
EGP’000
Health-care Tech Company Expenses paid on behalf Affiliate 75 113
Integrated Treatment for Kidney Diseases 
(S.A.E)
Bank transfers V alue 
of assets and expenses 
paid on behalf
Entity owned by 
Company’ s CEO 1,695 1,695
 1,808
* Health-care Tech is a company whose shareholders include Dr. Seham Ibrahim (a member of the Senior Management)
** Life Scan is a company whose shareholders include Dr. Alaa Abd El-Rehim (a member of the Senior Management)
T e r m s	a n d	c o n d i t i o n s 	o f	t r a n s a c t i o n s	 w i t h	r e l a t e d 	 p a r t i e s
The transactions with the related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no 
guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables. For the year ended 31 December 2015, the 
Group has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties (2014: nil). This assess-
ment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in 
which the related party operates.
IDH commits up to 1% of the net after-tax profit of the subsidiaries Al Borg and Al Mokhtabar to the Moamena Kamel 
Foundation for Training and Skill Development. Established in 2006 by Dr. Moamena Kamel, a Professor of Pathology at 
Cairo University and founder of IDH subsidiary Al-Mokhtabar Labs and mother to the CEO Dr. Hend El Sherbini. The Foun-
dation allocates this sum to organizations and groups in need of assistance. The foundation deploys an integrated program 
and vision for the communities it helps that include economic, social, and healthcare development initiatives. In 2015 EGP 
800,000 (2014: EGP 1,998,000) was paid to the foundation by the IDH Group.
IDH annual report 2015  106 C o m p e n s a t i o n	 o f 	 k e y	m a n a g e m e n t	p e r s o n n e l 	o f	 t h e 	 G r o u p
The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to key 
management personnel.
2015
EGP’000
2014
EGP’000
Short-term employee benefits 17,252 18,540
Share-based payment transactions 1,034 -
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 18,286 18,540
27. Establishment of saving fund to employees 
The Al Borg Laboratory Company’s board of directors on 8 October 2006 approved unanimously to establish an employees’ 
saving fund according to the provisions of Egyptian law No. 54 for the year 1975 on private insurance funds with the follow-
ing conditions and terms:
•	 Th e 	p a r t i ci p a t i o n	 b y	t h e	 e m p l o y e e 	i n	 t h e	 F u n d 	i s 	o p t i o n a l 	a n d	o n l y 	f o r	t h e 	 c o m p a n y ’ s	p e r m a n e n t 	e m p l o y e e s.
The employees saving fund will be financed as follows:
- 10 % calculated monthly of annual basic salaries and incentives and contributed for by the Company.
- 2.5 % calculated monthly of annual basic salaries and incentives, and contributed for by the employees.
•	 Th e 	b e n e fi t s 	 a n d	c o l l e ct i o n	 o f	 c o n t r i bu t i o n s 	( s ou r c e 	o f	fi n a n ci n g 	t h e	F u n d )	s t a r t s 	f r o m 	1/1/2007.
The subscribed employees in the fund will obtain the following benefits: The employee or his heirs will be reimbursed for 
the contribution he/she made to the Fund upon end of his service- for any reason of the following reasons (either total or 
partial disability or reach the age of retirement or death, or retirement after three years from the date the employee started 
his/ her contributions to the fund) plus his share of the company’s contributions and his/her share in return of the Fund’s 
investment.
At 31 December 2015 EGP 274K (2014: EGP 237K) was held in trade and other payables in relation to this fund.
IDH annual report 2015  107
s t rateg Ic r e port corporate g overnance Financial Statement S This page has intentionally been left blank.
