 At the forefront 
of changing 
energy markets
Annual Report for the year ended
30 September 2015 Intelligent Energy is a leading energy 
technology company. It has established, 
world-class IP and fuel cell technology,  
which is used across three distinct and 
growing global mass markets: Distributed 
Power & Generation (‘DP&G’), Motive  
and Consumer Electronics (‘CE’). 
At the forefront of changing energy markets
With over 25 years’ experience, we have built a world-class portfolio of IP and technology, resulting  
in over 900 patents granted with a further 1,000 patents pending. We specialise in the development 
of modular, low carbon fuel cell systems for our blue chip partners and their global mass markets. 
Distributed Power & Generation
Distributed power is power generated at or near the point of use. Intelligent Energy’s 
hydrogen fuel cell power systems are suitable for a variety of off-grid applications.
p14
Consumer Electronics
Intelligent Energy’s portable fuel cell systems are highly efficient and durable,  
and provide a cost-effective alternative power source that can easily be integrated  
into a wide range of portable electronic applications.
p22
Motive
Intelligent Energy’s proprietary fuel cell systems are modular and scalable, enabling 
partners to deliver cost-effective and high value solutions to the fuel cell electric 
vehicle (‘FCEV’) and fuel cell range extender (‘FCRE’) markets.
p18 Inside this report:
Strategic report
Overview 
Highlights 02
Where we operate 04
Market overview and product applications 06
Chairman’s statement 08 
Chief Executive Officer’s review 09 
Strategy  10
Performance
IP and Technology  12
Distributed Power & Generation 14
Motive  18
Consumer Electronics  22
Risk management  26
Principal risks and uncertainties 28
Chief Financial Officer’s review 32
Corporate responsibility 35
Governance
Chairman’s introduction to governance 40
Board of Directors  42 
Directors’ report  44
Corporate governance report 47
Audit & Risk Committee report  50
Nomination Committee report  53
Directors’ remuneration report 54
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  70
Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report  71
Consolidated income statement 72
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 72 
Statement of financial position 73
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  74
Company statement of changes in equity  75
Statement of cash flows 76
Notes to the annual financial statements 77
Shareholder information
Company and shareholder information  109
Go online to view our latest Annual Report 
www.intelligent-energy.com/investors
The front cover image of Intelligent Energy’s ZERE van has been 
provided courtesy of Joshua Tucker Photography and Cenex.
01 Highlights
Substantial increase in revenues and controlled cash-burn 
give a stable platform for long-term growth.
£78.2m
Revenue
2013/14: £13.6m
-£46.2m
Adjusted EBITDA
1
2013/14: -£39.4m
-£42.8m
Profit/(loss) after tax
2013/14: -£48.2m
£24.2m
Net cash
2
 
2013/14: £88.9m
1.  EBITDA is a non-statutory measure often used by 
investors as a proxy for cash and to calculate the value of 
a business. The Company uses adjusted EBITDA (Earnings 
before Interest, Tax, Depreciation, Amortisation, share of 
joint venture results, equity fundraising costs and IFRS2 
share-based payment charges) as an indicator of trading 
profitability and a proxy for operating cashflow, before any 
cash movements relating to investment, tax, funding and 
changes in working capital. It is not an IFRS measure, and is 
not therefore shown in the Group income statement.
2.  Net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents and 
short-term deposits less debt.
Financial highlights: Operational highlights:
Chief Financial Officer’ s review
page 32
DP&G division
page 14
DP&G division
• Landmark £1.2bn revenue, 10-year power 
management contract for c. 27 ,400 
telecom towers signed with GTL
• GTL contract is expected to complete  
in Q1 2016
• GTL contract was preceded by revenue 
generating interim agreements 
• Good early progress regarding 
installation and commissioning of fuel 
cells on GTL sites with scheduled further 
roll-out post contract completion 
02 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc CE division
page 22
IP & T echnology
page 12
Motive division
page 18
Chief Executive Officer’s review
page 09
Motive division 
• Continuing to build ever-closer 
relationships with leading vehicle 
manufacturers
 – In April 2015, a Joint 
Development Agreement (‘JDA’) 
was agreed with a new major 
Asian vehicle manufacturer
 – In September 2015, a £6.5m 
extension to an existing JDA 
with an Asian OEM was signed 
• Important progress made in the 
ongoing development of our 
market leading technology
 – In May 2015, an Intelligent 
Energy-led consortium won 
Government funding to develop 
a new class of zero-emission,  
range-extended light 
commercial vehicles 
 – New 100kW engine 
architecture shown to 
automotive OEMs and  
other industry partners 
• Post year end, in October 2015, 
announced as lead on a European 
public-private partnership to 
develop Intelligent Energy’s 
90kW engine for mass production, 
with participation from BMW  
and Daimler
• Interest in our proprietary 
technology has continued to 
expand following the recent 
diesel and petrol emission 
standard issues
CE division
• Migrating to proven JDA model 
• Industrial partnering discussions continue to  
progress favourably 
• Acquisition and integration of intellectual property 
assets from BIC
• Launch of Upp 1 across Apple’s United Kingdom 
retail store network in November 2014
 – Continue to collect important information on 
consumer energy consumption
Platform Support
• Strengthened IP portfolio. Currently have  
over 900 patents (Sept 2014: 400) with 1,000  
pending (Sept 2014: 600) 
• Demonstrated prototype embedded fuel cells  
in tablets and mobile phones
• Looking to demonstrate embedded fuel  
cells in drones in the near future
03 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Intelligent Energy has its head office in Loughborough,  
UK, and has built a global network of operations and 
offices across India, Japan, Singapore, France and the USA. 
This network enables excellent relationships with existing 
partners and customers and also encourages closer 
dialogue with prospective stakeholders. 
Where we operate
USA
San Jose, CA
USA
NASA Merritt Island, FL
Executing in multiple,  
large and growing 
markets
Market overview and product applications
page 06
The Group works with a range  
of major international companies  
to embed its technologies in mass 
market applications.
Superfuels Centre  
of Excellence
Head Office in UK
Our team in Loughborough has 
thousands of man years’ experience  
in fuel cell technology as well as 
access to unique fuel cell related 
facilities. Our teams also have 
operations, manufacturing and 
supply chain expertise to support 
commercialisation at scale.
Our team in Florida has extensive 
fuels’ experience and works closely 
with our team and research partner 
(CEA) in France.
04 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 400+
employees worldwide
 1,900
granted and pending patents
25+
years heritage
UK
London 
Loughborough (head office): 
Engineering centres of excellence
France
Grenoble
India
Bengaluru
Japan
Osaka: 
Manufacturing and 
production expertise
Singapore
Operations hub
Management of contract 
manufacturing and  
joint venture operations 
in Asia
Operational hub for Asia
Essential Energy
We have successfully established  
the management of contract 
manufacturing and Joint Venture 
operations for our fuel cell 
technology in both Japan and China, 
which includes the establishment of 
the necessary local supply chains.
Our operations team in Singapore  
has experience of sourcing and 
managing Asian devolved supply 
chains as well as the establishment  
and management of contract 
manufacturing arrangements.
Operation of the Group’s growing 
Indian power management business, 
via Essential Energy, our wholly owned 
subsidary company in India.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Intelligent Energy
05 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The aim of our three divisions is to focus on the transition to a 
high margin business model, whereby access to the Company’s 
technology is sold to OEM partners, thus generating licence 
fees and ongoing royalty revenues.
Market overview and product applications
Off-grid power generation and management solutions
Distributed power is power generation at or near the point of use. In India, Intelligent Energy’s 
subsidiary company, Essential Energy, will use a combination of a sophisticated remote 
engine monitoring, asset management and business intelligence capability (‘AMBIS’) 
and hydrogen fuel cells to provide reliable and clean power to telecom towers.
1.  Distributed Power  
& Generation
70%
of towers in India are currently 
without grid power for more 
than eight hours a day
27,400
revenue generating telecom 
towers which Essential Energy 
has under contract
Powering technology
The consumer electronics market is reaching a critical juncture. With the complexity and 
capabilities of smartphones and other mobile electronic devices reaching new heights, 
traditional batteries are failing to keep pace due to increased processing requirements, 
screen resolution and size, as well as increased data volumes, leading to increased 
downtime and consumer frustration.
3. Consumer Electronics
Accelerating automotive evolution
Today, there are estimated to be over 800 million vehicles on the world’s roads, with the 
number expected to reach two billion by 2050. Despite significant internal combustion 
engine developments to reduce emissions, there is a clear need for a cleaner, 
commercially viable alternative. Recent sector news highlights the increasing struggle 
that vehicle manufacturers face in order to meet stringent emissions targets. Vehicle 
emissions until now have been a somewhat diffused issue, but recent news highlights 
that urgent action needs to be taken.
2. Motive
80%
decarbonisation target to be 
achieved by 2050 in Europe
 1 .5bn
people in the developing  
world rely on off-grid mobile 
connectivity
800m+
vehicles on the road today
26bn
connected mobile devices 
forecast to be in use by 2020
06 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc There are estimated to be over 400,000 cell towers in operation in India.  
The 27,400 tower sites that Essential Energy is currently responsible for 
represent over 6 per cent of the total tower sites currently in use. With the 
roll-out of both 3G and 4G, and the associated demand for more power 
which this new technology brings, the number of towers in India is 
expected to grow by up to one million by 2017.
Existing grid replacement and back-up power technologies use batteries 
and generators operating on diesel, propane or gasoline. There are 
increasing concerns with these methods of power provision, which are 
leading to our partners seeking out alternatives that provide better 
reliability and are more cost effective when considering total cost of 
operation and ownership.
Consumer electronics devices are among the most important innovations 
of our time. We rely on their increasingly sophisticated technology as they 
give us ‘on-the-go’ access to anything, anywhere. 
The waste of energy and resources in the consumer society is becoming an ever 
more critical issue. The convergence of small-scale, high-efficiency fuel cell power 
systems into consumer electronics has a major role to play in the better 
organisation of global electronics product consumption. With over 1.5 billion 
people in the developing world globally relying on off-grid mobile connectivity, 
the need for a more distributed reliable solution becomes increasingly important.
This provides a significant growth opportunity for Intelligent Energy and its 
proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology. PEM fuel cells are  
highly efficient, durable and provide a long lasting, cost-effective alternative 
power source that can be integrated into a wide range of portable  
electronic applications. 
The required target of 80 per cent decarbonisation by 2050 in Europe means a  
95 per cent decarbonisation of the road transport sector. Many of the largest car 
manufacturers which have consistently anticipated changes in vehicle drivetrain 
technologies have the view that only hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles (‘FCEV’) 
can provide the required mix of emissions reduction and range in both primary 
power and battery electric vehicle (‘BEV’) range extender configurations.
Proton exchange membrane (‘PEM’) fuel cells in a hybrid electric configuration 
are viewed as a highly efficient alternative to the internal combustion engine, 
offering practical driving ranges, fast refilling times, exhilarating performance 
and dramatically reduced overall emissions.
Fuel cell systems can be designed to deliver cost-effective and high-value 
solutions to the fuel cell electric vehicle (‘FCEV’) and fuel cell range extender 
(‘FCRE’) markets.
The market for FCEVs is expected to accelerate from 201 5 with Japanese and 
Korean carmakers pioneering their market introduction.
Distributed Power & Generation
page 14
Consumer Electronics
page 22
Motive
page 18
It is estimated that within India, 70 per cent of towers are without grid 
power for more than eight hours per day. As a result of this, customers  
in these large-scale and competitive markets are actively looking for 
better power solutions than the existing Indian electricity grid, or costly 
and inefficient diesel generators, can offer.
Fuel cells have the potential to be the preferred alternative to diesel.
With the objective of enabling “truly mobile” devices, the CE division  
is focused on developing an embedded fuel cell solution for future 
mobile devices. 
The rapid growth in the Internet of Things (‘IoT’), forecast to see the 
networking of some 26 billion devices by 2020, also offers further  
huge opportunities. 
Following Hyundai’s 2014 release of its first production FCEV, Toyota is now 
supplying its fuel cell sedan, the Mirai, in various markets around the world. 
Honda Motor Company also plans to make an FCEV available to the public  
in 2016.
In parallel to the commercialisation of FCEVs, the introduction of  
hydrogen refuelling infrastructure has gathered pace recently with  
the deployment and initiatives underway in Japan, Germany, the UK,  
the US, Korea and Scandinavia.
07 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overall, it has been an important year in the 
progress of Intelligent Energy. We have a path 
forward in place and there is great momentum 
across the Group.
Chairman’s statement
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
I am pleased to present Intelligent Energy’s 
annual results, the second since the 
Company’s admission to the Main Market  
of the London Stock Exchange in July 2014.
Overview
It has been a very important and challenging 
year for Intelligent Energy. We have world-class 
fuel cell technology that puts us at the forefront 
of changing energy markets, and our focus is 
on commercialising that technology across  
our three target end markets. We have taken  
a number of important steps forward as we 
continue to focus on this objective.
Commercial progress
The most important step forward in 
commercialising our technology during  
the year was the signing of an agreement 
with GTL in September 2015 to acquire its 
energy management business, including 
10-year customer contracts worth  
£1.2 billion. This transaction will be closed  
as soon as the Conditions Precedent  
have been satisfied and we expect this  
to happen over the coming months. 
Through this agreement, we will provide 
efficient, clean and economical energy  
to over 27 ,400 telecom towers in India.  
This was a landmark transaction both for 
Intelligent Energy and the fuel cell industry 
more generally. This deal delivers high 
quality short and long-term revenues and 
importantly provides a proof of concept  
and model for similar opportunities across 
both the Indian and global telecom markets 
and the diesel generator market.
For the Motive division, through the year 
we have seen a great deal of industry news 
flow which all points toward the increased 
adoption of hydrogen fuel cells. This is 
reassuring and we are working closely with 
a number of the major car manufacturers, 
who continue to validate the strength of 
our technology. 
Progress within CE continues to be made  
on accelerating our technology development 
to the stage where fuel cells will be 
incorporated within our partners’ products.  
A significant step was taken in April 201 5 when 
we acquired important intellectual property 
assets from Société BIC. Encouragingly, we are 
already seeing significant interest from major 
global consumer electronics companies in 
this embedded concept.
Across the business, our teams continue to 
evolve our technology, including working 
prototypes of fuel cell systems embedded 
into CE devices, fuel cell cartridge 
development for portable applications 
taking advantage of our acquisition from 
Société BIC and focusing on cost reduction 
and manufacturability. To deliver our 
licensing business model, we continue to 
invest in creating a strong, wide-ranging 
intellectual property portfolio that 
underpins our technology.
Further details in relation to divisional 
operations and our technology can be found 
on pages 12 to 25 of the Strategic report.
Investing for growth
As previously announced, Intelligent Energy 
intends to raise additional funds through  
a two-tier process. Both transactions are 
consistent with the Company’s objective of 
protecting existing shareholders. Firstly, this 
involves a proposed issue of a convertible 
instrument to industrial partners; the terms 
of the convertible instrument include a strike 
price that is at a premium to the current 
share price. Secondly, Intelligent Energy 
realises there is significant value in aspects of 
its DP&G Indian operations and has therefore 
appointed Jefferies, the investment bank,  
to assist the Company in realising some of 
this value to finance its current and future 
growth plans, and notes that it has been in 
discussions with potential investors since  
the early summer.
With respect to the convertible loan note,  
Intelligent Energy is currently in advanced 
discussions with two blue chip industrial 
parties. With their proposed participation  
in the convertible loan note, the two  
blue chip industrial parties look forward  
to supporting the deployment of  
Intelligent Energy’s world-class fuel cells  
and hydrogen energy in general.
Platform for commercialisation
We took the opportunity to strengthen our 
senior management team in March 2015,  
with the appointment of Garrett Forde as 
Chief Operating Officer. Reporting into  
Dr Henri Winand, our Chief Executive Officer, 
Garrett has been tasked with strengthening 
the end-to-end operations of the business, 
creating a greater commercial focus for our 
technology development and for ensuring 
the organisational structure of the Group is 
optimised to support our growth strategies. 
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all our employees for their continued 
hard work and support during the past year. 
A great deal has been achieved during this 
period and this is down to the contributions 
of employees across the Group.
Outlook
Overall, it has been an important year in the 
progress of Intelligent Energy. As touched 
upon before, when introducing any new 
disruptive technology, the path to success  
is rarely smooth. However, we have a  
path forward in place and there is great 
momentum across the Group. While fully 
aware of the significant challenges involved, 
the Board remains confident about the 
prospects and opportunities ahead.
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
27 November 2015
08 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc We have reported substantial revenue growth 
underpinned by DP&G’s GTL interim contract. 
We have a clear path to further revenue and 
margin expansion.
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introducing EMBRACE: 
Our Platform for 
Transformation
 
During 2015, we have continued to 
work hard to improve our ‘way of 
working’ within the business and to 
ensure the Group’s organisational 
structure is optimised, ‘fit for purpose’ 
and designed in the most cost-effective 
and efficient way to execute our 
growth strategies. 
In order to embed our long-term vision 
for an ‘improved way of working’ and 
create greater commercial focus for  
our 400+ employees around the world, 
a platform for transformation was 
launched in June 2015, called EMBRACE. 
This programme has sought to set  
and re-align internal strategies, key 
business objectives and priorities for 
growth during the next five years,  
with the overall aim of ensuring a faster 
commercialisation of key opportunities. 
Work streams have been established, 
led by our Chief Operating Officer, 
Garrett Forde, to drive the EMBRACE 
agenda with clear project owners and 
supporting teams to achieve on-time 
commercial delivery.
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
In many ways, it has been a very important 
year for Intelligent Energy, with key steps 
forward across each division. We have 
reported substantial revenue growth, 
underpinned by DP&G’s GTL interim 
contract. In addition, we have a clear path 
to further revenue and margin expansion 
with the expected completion of the  
long-term contracts with GTL in Q1 2016. 
Our Motive division continues to build 
relationships with leading vehicle 
manufacturers, while ‘Dieselgate’ and 
‘Petrolgate’ are fundamental drivers for 
change in the automotive industry. Within 
Consumer Electronics, the integration of 
the BIC IP acquisition is progressing well 
and we are delighted with the broader 
applications of the acquired IP across  
other parts of the business. We continue  
to collect important customer data through 
the Upp product, which is a key part of  
our embedded technology strategy.  
With regard to our funding requirements, 
we continue to make progress on our 
announced two-stage funding process.
Strategic focus and outlook
DP&G division
• The GTL contract is expected to complete 
in Q1 2016 and once completed, profit 
margins are expected to increase to  
c.15 per cent
• Excellent relationships with the majority 
of the key telecom operators
• Working to deliver a second GTL-sized 
contract in FY2016 
• High degree of confidence in medium-
term target of 125,000–135,000 towers
Motive division
• Recent industry news-flow accelerating 
momentum toward hydrogen fuel cells 
• Positive dialogue with a number of car 
manufacturers – broadening pipeline  
of potential JDA partners 
• Delivering on our commitments to current 
JDA partners 
• Expansion of our current activities into  
the emerging field of zero-emission  
range extended vehicles
CE division
• Finalise migration to JDA model,  
followed by potential licence and  
royalties opportunities 
• Complete the integration of BIC and 
leverage that IP across all divisions
• Continuing positive industrial  
partner discussions 
People
We were pleased to make a number of 
important appointments through the  
year. We appointed Garrett Forde as  
Chief Operating Officer and a member  
of the Group Executive. Garrett is 
responsible for managing the Group’s  
three divisions, its engineering and 
technology development activities, and  
the streamlining of its end-to-end business 
operations. We have also strengthened  
our investor relations function. 
Following the completion of the BIC 
acquisition, we also appointed an acting 
Managing Director of the CE division, Julian 
Hughes. In addition, the Group is currently 
recruiting a new Managing Director of the 
Motive division.
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
27 November 2015
09 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
“Design once,
deploy many times” 
1
2
Mass markets
Divisional approach, targeting three
growing markets to gain market share 
Alignment of divisional business 
models to long-term strategy 
Flexible business 
model
3
Focus in the medium to long term 
on selling access to technology 
and related intellectual property  
Original equipment manufacturer
partners and other 3rd parties 
Generate up-front licence payments
and ongoing royalties 
World-class team delivering industry
leading IP and technology
AMBIS (Asset Management and Business Intelligence Services)
Delivering key insights into the business and 
eld use of our technologies
Shareholder value
Investment
Revenue
Long-term
strategy  
Moving towards a
licensing model with 
up-front payments 
and ongoing royalties  
 Consumer Electronics 
<2kW
Low power
 
 1kW-20kW
Medium power
DP&G
 
  1kW to multiples 
of 100kW
Motive 
Intelligent Energy’s growth strategy is based upon using its world-class 
IP and fuel cell technology across a number of growing mass markets. 
Our philosophy, “design once, deploy many times” , means our flexible 
and scalable design architecture can be applied to a wide range of 
power applications across a wide range of industries.
Strategy
10 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
“Design once,
deploy many times” 
1
2
Mass markets
Divisional approach, targeting three
growing markets to gain market share 
Alignment of divisional business 
models to long-term strategy 
Flexible business 
model
3
Focus in the medium to long term 
on selling access to technology 
and related intellectual property  
Original equipment manufacturer
partners and other 3rd parties 
Generate up-front licence payments
and ongoing royalties 
World-class team delivering industry
leading IP and technology
AMBIS (Asset Management and Business Intelligence Services)
Delivering key insights into the business and 
eld use of our technologies
Shareholder value
Investment
Revenue
Long-term
strategy  
Moving towards a
licensing model with 
up-front payments 
and ongoing royalties  
 Consumer Electronics 
<2kW
Low power
 
 1kW-20kW
Medium power
DP&G
 
  1kW to multiples 
of 100kW
Motive 
Risk management
page 26
11 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements With over 400 employees worldwide, we develop 
technology that is tailored to suit our partners’ power 
needs from our core common building blocks. We 
collaborate with our partners from early in the design 
process, integrating our proprietary technology platforms  
and capability into their products and processes.
IP and Technology
Platform support 
Intelligent Energy’s patented and highly 
differentiated technology results in 
class-leading power densities. As a 
consequence, the Group is able to develop 
and deploy fuel cell stacks and systems  
that cover a wide power range. This range 
of power outputs spans a number of 
important mass markets utilising only  
two underlying technology architectures: 
air-cooled (‘AC’) and evaporatively-cooled 
(‘EC’) in off-grid and distributed power 
markets where the cost of power is 
significantly higher and the regulations  
are much lighter than grid-connected 
applications. The Group’s ‘design once, 
deploy many times’ philosophy leads to  
a convergence of effort (by the Group and 
its partners) around common technology 
platforms, manufacturing methods and 
supply chains. This differentiated business 
model allows for operational efficiency  
and results in significant barriers to entry  
for current and future competitors in each 
of the Group’s target markets.
We are pleased to have been able to 
demonstrate prototype embedded fuel 
cells in tablets and mobile phones. The 
Group has made progress investigating 
broader commercial applications for its 
embedded technology in consumer 
electronics applications. An example is 
provided by the use of fuel cells in drones  
as a result of integrating expertise from  
the acquired BIC IP . 
We are developing zero-emission range 
extenders (‘ZERE’) for battery electric 
vehicles which can be integrated into both 
new and existing configurations. These 
developments are necessary steps towards 
embedding our technology and moving 
towards the ultimate goal of a royalty and 
licensing business model by providing  
a range of products and demonstrating 
various applications of the technology.
The Group continues to make focused 
investments in expanding its broad 
intellectual property portfolio, creating a 
significant barrier to entry to competitors. 
Patents granted stand at over 900 with  
over 1,000 patents pending, materially 
above the 400 and 600 respectively at  
30 September 2014.
Access to world-class 
facilities
Intelligent Energy offers its partners 
and customers access to world-class, 
state-of-the-art development and  
test facilities.
Our facilities include 90 test stations  
(all in the UK) capable of covering stacks 
and full systems between 5W and 
100kW. These include:
• 600sqm of test space; 
• walk-in and smaller environmental 
chambers;
• acoustic chamber for noise testing;
• an automated fuel cell stack 
production line to test new 
production methods and develop 
production IP;
• dedicated assembly;
• X-ray inspection; and 
• 3D prototype printing capabilities. 
Further to our test and development 
facilities in the UK, our Super Fuels 
Centres of Excellence are now 
operational and based at the NASA 
Building, Merritt Island, Florida and at 
the Commissariat à l’Energie Atomique 
(CEA) facility in Grenoble, France.
In addition to our own in-house 
capabilities, we have close partnerships 
with a number of third-party test 
houses including:
• KIWA;
• BSI Group  
(British Standards Institution);
• Mira Technology Park 
(Motor Industry Research 
Association); and 
• Millbrook Proving Ground.
12 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Published patent count by company
1
 Intelligent Energy
1,407
5,554
2,304
 ARM
 Imagination Technologies
Published and unpublished patents 
by expiry
 2021–2025
559
735
830
 2026–2030
 2031–2035
 ‘’ Air Liquide already tested Intelligent  
Energy technologies on several occasions 
and values the company for its broad 
technology platform potential. Intelligent 
Energy’s recent acquisition of intellectual 
property relating to hydrogen fuel solutions 
and high-volume manufacturing 
techniques from Société Bic is a good 
example of innovative hydrogen fuel 
technology. We are looking forward to 
further collaboration with lntelligent Energy 
to contribute to Air Liquide efforts in 
addressing new h ydrogen energy markets. ” 
Pierre Etienne Franc, VP Advanced Business & 
Technologies of Air Liquide and the CEO of ALIAD.
(Source: Intelligent Energy Results for year ended  
30 September 2015.)
Case study
Working group led by Intelligent 
Energy to develop its proprietary 90kW 
EC fuel cell stack for mass manufacture
• Working group members drawn  
from premium OEMs, a leading fuel  
cell manufacturer and material and 
stack component suppliers
• VolumetriQ is a three-year  
programme supported by funding 
from FCH JU (Fuel Cells and Hydrogen  
Joint Undertaking)
• A unique public-private partnership 
supporting research, technological 
development activities in fuel cell  
and hydrogen energy technologies  
in Europe
In October 2015, Intelligent Energy 
announced that it would be leading a 
pan-European industry working group  
to develop its proprietary 90kW EC fuel 
cell automotive technology in the funded 
project called VolumetriQ. 
VolumetriQ is a three-year programme that 
will deliver a blueprint for stack suitability 
for mass manufacture and potential future 
industrialisation. Funded by €5 million 
from the European programme FCH JU, 
the target is to develop fuel cell stacks that 
can be manufactured in high volumes for 
use in hydrogen fuel cell vehicles by 2020, 
building on Intelligent Energy’s industry 
leading PEM fuel cell technology. 
Intelligent Energy is joined in the working 
group by four industrial partners: Johnson 
Matthey Fuel Cells, Solvay Speciality 
Polymers, ElringKlinger and Pretexo;  
there is also academic input from CNRS 
Montpellier. Furthermore, BMW Group  
and Daimler will participate in the project 
to set out the stack requirements.
1.  Data is for comparison only and shows Intelligent Energy vs IP 
comparisons with companies that have similar business 
models. Based on published, granted and pending patents. 
Generated from searches of public data using search terms 
intended to create suitable comparison data sets.
13 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The DP&G division operates in the knowledge that fuel cell technology  
offers a significant opportunity to provide a more cost-effective  
and cleaner distributed power solution.
Distributed
Power
& Generation 
-£2.5m
EBITDA
(2013/14: -£4.4m)
£72.2m
Revenue
(2013/14: £5.0m) 
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 14 Strategic report Financial statements Governance
15 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 DP&G division update 
Intelligent Energy has identified a major 
opportunity to provide uninterrupted 
power to the telecoms industry. India 
currently has the second largest mobile 
telecom subscriber base globally, with  
c.1 billion subscribers. However, the grid  
is unable to meet the demand for power, 
providing a substantial opportunity for 
Intelligent Energy.
India currently has over 400,000 telecom 
towers in operation. The DP&G division  
has established itself as a leading provider 
of efficient, economic and clean power 
through the GTL transaction. The Company’s 
management have excellent relationships 
with most of the key operators and there  
is a high degree of confidence with regard 
to the medium-term target of 125,000  
to 135,000 towers.
GTL transaction
DP&G signed a landmark transaction with 
GTL Limited whereby the Company will 
acquire GTL ’s energy management 
business, providing efficient and economic 
energy to over 27 ,400 telecom towers in India. 
The deal is expected to complete in Q1 2016.
The deal, worth £1.2 billion in revenues  
over 10 years, is the world’s largest fuel cell 
transaction. As well as being a landmark 
transaction for Intelligent Energy, it is also a 
powerful reference point for future transactions 
of this nature, illustrating the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the Company’s fuel cell 
technology deployed at scale. 
The highlights of the transaction are:
• Intelligent Energy expects to earn 
approximately £120m revenue per annum 
from providing power and maintaining 
equipment 
• The expected initial EBITDA margin is 
expected to start at c.15 per cent, equivalent 
to an EBITDA margin of c.£17m per annum 
• Approximately £85m is payable for the 
Energy Management Business, of which  
up to £25m will be financed from 
Intelligent Energy resources
• The balance will be funded through  
debt secured against the revenue streams 
A readily available supply of energy is taken for granted  
in the modern world. When faced with grid failure, it is 
imperative to supply reliable distributed and backup 
power to reduce loss of revenue and to keep critical 
systems operating.
Distributed Power & Generation continued
IP & Technology 
305 modular fuel cell system 
Designed around Intelligent Energy’s 
patented modular fuel cell architecture, the 
305 fuel cell system provides our partners 
with an efficient and reliable solution to 
maintain their critical power systems 24/7 .
The Intelligent Energy 305 system utilises the 
latest hydrogen-fuelled, proton exchange 
membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology and is 
scalable for immediate field deployment.
Features and benefits include:
• High efficiency, remote off-grid power 
generation solution
•  Operational cost savings and overall 
“through life” cost saving compared to 
diesel generators
•  Clean power provision – zero emissions  
at point of use
• Modular solutions allowing for simple 
“plug and play” system upgrades as power 
levels at site increase over time
• Remote monitoring capability – utilises 
Intelligent Energy proprietary remote asset 
tracking technology (AMBIS), ensuring 
optimised operation and performance 
through real-time system data analysis
• Alternative to diesel generators using 
hydrogen as a fuel
Hydrogen available from numerous 
sources including:
• Renewable hydrogen generation from 
wind, solar or biomass installations
• Hydrogen production via natural gas 
reformation at refineries and other 
industrial sites
• By-products from other industrial 
processes, e.g. chlor-alkali plants
• Hydrogen delivery is available world-
wide from industrial gas providers
of the Energy Management Business 
• Over the life of the agreement, the EBITDA 
margin is expected to grow to between  
30 per cent to 35 per cent which is a cash 
equivalent EBITDA of c.£40m per annum, 
conservatively assuming no additional 
growth in revenue per site
• Approximately 290 existing GTL 
employees who are responsible for the 
current operation of the contracts will 
transfer to Intelligent Energy ’s Indian 
operating subsidiary on completion
The agreement with GTL is subject to the 
following conditions: 
• Completion of Indian Competition 
Commission regulatory clearance
• The GTL group of companies completing 
their own corporate approvals which 
includes the conclusions of any final 
approvals required from lenders
• Intelligent Energy completing the £60m 
Indian domestic fundraising. This is 
expected to be concluded before the  
end of Q1 calendar year 2016
16 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Should the transaction not complete under 
certain conditions, Intelligent Energy will 
pay a break fee of 1 per cent of the 
Company’s market capitalisation to GTL.
In expectation of completion of the GTL 
contract, Intelligent Energy continues  
to progress discussions relating to know-
how and intangible assets that would 
increase the Company’s ability to expand 
margins, increase the attractiveness of 
Intelligent Energy’s energy management 
model to partners and help to enable 
replication of the model elsewhere in  
South East Asia. This transaction would 
require funding of £30m to £45m by 
non-recourse debt, with no related 
Intelligent Energy equity injection or  
cash outflow.
In addition, four Clean Water Systems  
were installed in conjunction with our  
joint venture partner Hydro Industries, 
confirming that second-customer use of 
energy at telecom tower sites is viable.
Financials 
DP&G recorded revenue of £72.2m  
(2013/14: £5.0m) and EBITDA of -£2.5m 
(2013/14: -£4.4m). The interim contract  
with GTL delivered low EBITDA margins,  
due to the nature of the services  
delivered, which also required  
no capital expenditure. 
Scalable technology – executing the business plan
Case study
Improving efficiency at telecom 
tower sites 
Essential Energy, the wholly owned 
Indian subsidiary of Intelligent Energy, 
has adopted a four step approach  
in the energy management of telecom 
tower sites. The aim of Essential Energy 
is to improve efficiency at sites. In a 
recent site case study, Essential Energy 
highlighted that they had been 
responsible for reducing the diesel 
consumption on average by  
18 per cent, whilst also improving  
site availability. Both were achieved 
rapidly within four months of taking 
over the power assets and even before 
infusing any additional technology  
to further reduce operating costs at the 
sites. More generally, Essential Energy 
achieves efficiency improvements by:
• Undertaking a full audit of the sites
• Optimising the site operation using 
existing assets
• Replacing assets that can improve 
the overall economics 
• Introducing new technology that 
results in improved economics and  
a lower carbon footprint
In the same case study, only the  
first three of the four steps were 
implemented, whilst also having 
limited control over the field workforce 
linked to the site. With the ability  
to direct the field workforce and 
complete all four steps of the 
approach, future savings could rise  
to in excess of 40 per cent of the 
energy costs, whilst continually 
maintaining high levels of site  
power availability.
Step 1
Acquire exclusive  
power management 
rights
Step 2
Improve efficiency  
of operations via  
remote monitoring  
using AMBIS
Step 3
Gradually roll out 
hydrogen fuel cells  
to replace legacy  
diesel generators
Step 4
Generate new  
revenues from sale  
of “excess” power  
(second customers –  
e.g. for ATMs, water 
purification etc.)
Longer-term  
objective
Identify third-party  
OEMs to implement 
licensing/royalty model 
for fuel cell systems
17 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Today there are over 800 million vehicles on the road, with the number  
expected to reach two billion by 2050. Despite significant internal  
combustion engine developments to reduce emissions, there is  
a clear need for a cleaner, commercially viable alternative.
Motive
-£0.3m
EBITDA 
(2013/14: £0.5m)
£5.9m
Revenue
(2013/14: £8.6m)
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 18 Strategic report Financial statements Governance
19 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 IP & Technology 
Class-leading fuel cell technology
Intelligent Energy’s proprietary,  
high-performance fuel cell platforms 
have been designed for high-volume 
manufacturing in two distinct modular 
architectures: Air Cooled (AC) and 
Evaporatively Cooled (EC).
Our technology delivers low-temperature 
operability, whilst utilising simplified 
balance of plant in comparison to 
conventional fuel cell systems. The overall 
result is a compact power system with 
fewer components, improved reliability 
and reduced system cost.
Our expertise covers a wide variety  
of motive platforms for fuel cell stacks  
and systems ranging from 1kW up to  
100kW and beyond.
Intelligent Energy has focused on 
developing proprietary fuel cell stacks  
and systems with high power densities 
targeted at enhanced system reliability, 
high performance and reduced weight  
and complexity for series production.  
We partner with some of the world’s 
leading motive manufacturers to  
provide the power technology and  
system knowledge to accelerate their  
fuel cell electric vehicle deployment.
Motive division update 
It has been a major year for the automotive 
industry and fuel cell technology. 2015 saw 
the start of the commercial roll-out of fuel 
cell electric vehicles. More recently, there 
has been a great deal of news regarding  
the difficulties in keeping diesel and petrol 
engines within emissions limits. Both are 
key drivers for the introduction of fuel cell 
technology, where Intelligent Energy is the 
market leader. Intelligent Energy now works 
with 25 per cent of the global OEM market.
Joint Development Agreements (‘JDAs’)
During the period, the Motive division  
was pleased to make two important 
announcements with major vehicle 
manufacturers. The first announcement  
was that Intelligent Energy had added 
Intelligent Energy proprietary fuel cell systems are 
modular and scalable, enabling our partners to deliver 
cost-effective, high-value solutions to the fuel cell 
electric vehicle (FCEV) and fuel cell range extender 
(FCRE) markets.
Motive continued
Motive customers: stepping up through the licensing business model
Suzuki EPCM
1
JCM
2
AVM
3 
Technology validation
Joint Development Agreement
Option agreement to provide access to IP
Licence exercise
Royalties
1.  European premium car maker
2.  Japanese car maker
3.  Asian vehicle manufacturer
another major Asian vehicle manufacturer  
as a customer. The second announcement 
regarded an extension of a JDA with an 
existing partner worth £6.5m over two years. 
These two announcements reflect the pace 
at which fuel cell propulsion is becoming a 
prominent part of the automotive industry, 
and is further evidence of Intelligent Energy’s 
technological leadership in this market. 
20 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Phase 1
Technology 
validation
Phase 2
Joint Development 
Agreement
Phase 3
Option agreement to 
provide access to IP
Phase 4
Licence exercise  
with up-front  
licence fees
Phase 5
Ongoing  
royalties
Case study
Leading consortium to deliver 
zero-emission, range-extended light 
commercial vehicles for fleets
In March 2015, it was announced that 
Intelligent Energy would lead a UK 
industry consortium to develop a new 
class of zero-emission, light commercial 
vehicle (LCV). By integrating fuel cell 
technology into battery electric vehicles 
(BEVs), the consortium will deliver the 
capability to provide low carbon LCVs 
with significantly improved range and 
rapid refuelling.
The three-year project, utilising 
Intelligent Energy’s world-leading fuel  
cell technology, is to develop validated 
systems and vehicle conversion expertise 
ready for volume manufacture. The goal 
is also to provide fleet operators with a 
solution that enables vehicle operation 
for extended periods whilst being 
emissions free at the tailpipe.
The consortium will receive a £6.3m  
grant from the Advanced Propulsion 
Centre (APC) as part of the £12.7m 
project. In addition to lead partner 
Intelligent Energy, the partners comprise 
Frost EV, Frost Electronics, Millbrook, 
CENEX, British Gas and DHL.
The collaborative project minimises 
technical and commercial risk by initially 
targeting captive and commercial fleet 
operators, providing a package that  
can be integrated into vehicles as an 
end-of-line fitment at an OEM, or through 
a new-vehicle conversion facility, or  
by retro-fitting at approved centres.
Fuel cell systems can be used to increase 
battery electric vehicle range while 
maintaining zero emissions. The light 
commercial vehicle systems developed 
during this programme can offer 
operational advantages through 
increased access to restricted-emission 
zones combined with faster refuelling 
times than battery pack recharging 
alternatives. The consortium is working  
in conjunction with a steering group 
including vehicle manufacturers, 
government agencies, fleet financing 
experts and fleet operators.
The road to a licensing business model
Technological developments
During the period Intelligent Energy 
announced it will lead a three-year, £12.7m 
consortium partly funded by a £6.3m grant 
from the Advanced Propulsion Centre to 
work alongside partners including British  
Gas, DHL, Frost EV, Millbrook and CENEX. 
This project is a continuation of the  
Motive division’s development of low-
carbon Light Commercial Vehicles 
following the launch of zero-emission 
London taxis in 2012.
Post year end, in October 2015, we were 
announced as lead on a €5m grant-funded 
European public-private partnership to 
develop Intelligent Energy’s 90kW engine 
for mass production, with participation 
from BMW and Daimler.
The division continues to deliver to its 
current automotive customers against  
their demanding standards, and is engaged 
in substantive discussions with a number  
of additional automotive OEMs. 
Financials
During the year, Motive recorded revenue 
of £5.9m (2013/14: £8.6m) and EBITDA  
of -£0.3m (2013/14: £0.5m). The revenue 
pattern reflects the phasing of JDAs in  
the year.
21 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The requirement for portable power has been growing at an  
exponential rate, driven by an ever-increasing need for greater  
amounts of power for our electronic devices.
Consumer 
Electronics
-£8.6m 
EBITDA
(2013/14: -£10.1m)
£0.1m
Revenue
(2013/14: £0.0m)
22 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements
23 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 CE division update 
Working with its global commercial 
partners, CE’s focus is on leveraging 
Intelligent Energy’s market-leading 
technology to develop and commercialise 
embedded fuel cell technology for the 
mass market of portable consumer 
electronic products. Some important  
steps toward achieving that goal have 
been taken in this financial period.
Acquisition of BIC Intellectual  
Property Assets
A strategically important acquisition was 
made in April 2015, with the purchase of 
the portable fuel cell and disposable fuel 
cartridge assets of Société Bic S.A. (‘BIC’). 
The acquisition materially enhanced 
Intelligent Energy’s extensive portfolio  
of IP , including valuable, high-volume, 
low-cost manufacturing and production  
IP for disposable cartridges. 
The financial consideration was $15m in 
cash and up to $7m under an earn-out 
arrangement. The integration of the 
acquisition is progressing in line with 
expectations, and is expected to  
complete in the second half of the 
calendar year 2016. 
Developments with Upp 
Intelligent Energy launched its first hand 
held fuel cell portable power solution, 
Upp (Upp1), in UK Apple stores on  
19 November 2014. It has since won a 
number of important industry awards. 
These include being named a 2015  
CES Innovation Awards Honoree which 
recognised Upp1 as a cutting edge 
technology product in portable  
power, and being named a 2015  
Gold Edison Award Winner for its  
next generation solution that allows  
users to “Live Life Unplugged” .
Mobile devices are among the most important 
innovations of our time. We rely on their increasingly 
sophisticated technology as they give us ‘on-the-go’ 
access to anything, anywhere. 
Consumer Electronics continued
IP & Technology
Portable fuel cell systems
Intelligent Energy’s Upp product, the 
hydrogen fuel cell portable power solution 
launched in November 2014, was awarded 
the 2015 CES Innovation Award, as well as 
being named a Gold Edison Award Winner 
2015 (products entered into this prestigious 
programme are judged by a panel of more 
than 3,000 leading business executives and 
academics, and represent game-changing 
innovations that are at the forefront of 
product development, marketing and 
human-centred design).
Designed around Intelligent Energy’s 
patented modular fuel cell architecture, the 
5W Upp fuel cell provides our partners and 
customers with an efficient and reliable 
solution to portable power management.
Intelligent Energy’s proton exchange 
membrane (PEM) fuel cells display the 
highest power densities of any of the fuel 
cell types, which make them particularly 
attractive for portable applications where 
minimum size and weight are required. 
They contain no corrosive liquid electrolyte, 
are robust in construction and are modular 
and scalable in design.
Intelligent Energy has designed and 
developed a unique, reusable hydrogen 
fuel cartridge for use with the Upp fuel  
cell system. 
This modular architecture is available  
as a discrete consumer device or for 
integration into other electronics 
platforms, such as an extended range 
power supply for a range of consumer 
devices, Internet of Things whether on 
land or in the air as part of our roadmap 
to embedded technology. 
Sales volumes were, however, disappointing, 
reflecting manufacturing issues with the metal 
hydride fuel cartridges and limited market 
traction. Upp 1 delivered its key objectives with 
regard to technology validation and the 
collection of important data regarding 
consumer fuel consumption behaviour. 
Intelligent Energy has plans to launch with  
an industrial partner, under a JDA model,  
a smaller and lighter next generation Upp.  
This version will use disposable fuel cell 
cartridge technology from the BIC acquisition. 
Alongside the development of a next-
generation Upp, there is also a continued focus 
on increasing our understanding of consumer 
energy usage using Intelligent Energy’s 
proprietary remote engine-monitoring 
technology (AMBIS). This information is 
invaluable as we work toward the 
commercialisation of embedded technology  
in mass market consumer products.
24 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc The road to embedded technology
Financials
CE has continued to make a number of 
important operational and technological 
commercial steps. It is still at an early stage 
of its development with regard to revenue 
generation. It recorded revenue of £0.1m 
(2013/14: £0.0m) and EBITDA of -£8.6m 
(2013/14: -£10.1m).
Case study
Improving mobile connectivity  
in India for users on the move
Reliable mobile connectivity is a problem 
throughout India. The Upp device 
provides an attractive charging solution, 
which maintains up-time for users. 
Intelligent Energy and Essential Energy, 
our wholly owned Indian business,  
have worked together and selected 
communities situated near to some of the 
GTL telecom tower sites. This means we 
can use our presence in India to acquire 
more consumer “energy on-the-go data” 
in an environment where the electricity  
grid is not always available.
Customers would pay refundable deposits 
for the use of the chargers and fuel 
cartridges and, on a pay-as-you-go basis, 
pay for refills of the fuel cartridges. 
Phase 1
Refillable cartridge
Phase 2
Disposable  
cartridge
Phase 3
Embedded fuel cell, 
external cartridge
Phase 4
• Embedded fuel  
cell and fuel 
• Gather end-use 
insights with  
AMBIS
Objective
Delivered through a 
JDA and OEM licensing 
model with licence/
royalty revenues
Essential Energy will target three segments 
within this market: 
• Rural communities lacking reliable 
power to charge mobile phones;
• Smartphone corporate customers 
requiring reliable, off grid,  
power-on-the-go;
• In-house use for field operatives. 
The fuel cartridges in India are to be 
refuelled locally. These were developed 
and successfully trialled in the UK, and  
are now being used within commercial 
operations. The supply of hydrogen is to be 
sourced locally in India. A number of Upp 
cartridges and a refuelling rig have already 
been exported to India to develop this 
approach to use our existing assets as well 
as gathering further usage data to assist 
our OEM customers to further understand 
the commercialisation proposition. 
25 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed risk assessments and consideration of mitigation 
is carried out at the divisional level
Board of Directors
Overall responsibility for maintaining 
the risk management process
Audit & Risk Committee
Provides oversight of internal control framework. 
Regular reporting from Internal Audit and Head of Risk
Business Risk Management
Executive and Senior Management consider 
risk management for the Group as a whole
Head 
of Risk
Internal 
Audit
Platform 
support
Business 
services
DP&G CE Motive
Risk management involves the identification, evaluation, 
monitoring, and where appropriate, the mitigation of risks.  
It is the responsibility of the Group’s Board of Directors  
to ensure that effective risk frameworks and management 
systems are in place. The Board is also responsible for setting 
the risk appetite of the Group. 
Risk management
Group risk management framework
26 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Risk profiling process
Identification
Financial and non-financial risks 
recorded in risk register
Evaluation
Risk exposure reviewed  
and risks prioritised
Analysis
Risks analysed for impact  
and probability
Mitigation
Risk owners identified,  
mitigation activities agreed and 
recorded on risk register
Review
Regular review of risk registers  
and mitigation activities
A key objective of the Board and its senior management 
team is to safeguard and increase the value of the 
business and the net assets of the Group. Achievement 
of these objectives requires the development of policies 
and appropriate internal control frameworks to ensure 
the Group’s resources are managed properly and  
that any key risks are identified and, where possible, 
mitigated. It should be noted that the Company’s risk 
management framework can only help to mitigate 
certain risks, rather than eliminate them entirely. Some 
of the risks identified will also be, to a greater or lesser 
extent, beyond the Company’s influence or control. As 
the Group is developing new, complex and innovative 
technologies, and is operating in developing markets, 
some future risks may, as yet, be unknown.
During the year, further progress has been made with 
regard to embedding the risk framework within the 
Group. At an operational level, each business function 
has responsibility for maintaining its own risk registers. 
These registers are then used as tools for identifying 
and evaluating risks and where appropriate introducing 
additional mitigations to reduce risk to an acceptable 
level. In order for the Board to discharge its responsibilities 
with respect to risk management, internal audits have 
been conducted on different parts of the Group’s 
activities in accordance with an audit plan which has 
been approved by the Audit & Risk Committee on 
behalf of the Board. This internal audit plan is reviewed 
annually to ensure that all material activities are 
reviewed on a two to three-year cycle; this ensures 
appropriate controls are in place, are operating effectively 
and, where appropriate, improvements are made.  
Key findings from the internal audit programme are 
presented to the Audit & Risk Committee twice per year. 
See page 52 of the Audit & Risk Committee report for 
further details regarding the internal audit process.
The Company notes amendments made recently to  
the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘UK Code’) in 
relation to risk management and that such changes 
should be applied to accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 October 2014. At this stage in the Company’s 
development, the Board has decided not to incorporate 
these changes into its risk management policies and 
procedures for the 2014/15 financial year. Further details 
regarding this decision can be found on page 52 of the 
Audit & Risk Committee report. 
A summary of the known principal risks and uncertainties 
that could impact on the Group’s performance is  
shown overleaf. The content of this table is not intended 
to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties  
that may arise within the Group. Further information  
with regard to risk management and internal control  
can be found within the Audit & Risk Committee report 
on pages 50 to 52.
Principal risks and uncertainties
page 28
27 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties  
that could impact on the Group’s performance is  
shown below together with details of the mitigating  
actions that are being taken.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Detail Risk management
The Group is developing complex, 
innovative technology products which 
require further technical development and 
investment in infrastructure, along with 
significant adoption by customers. Material 
markets for fuel cell technology may never 
develop, or develop more slowly than the 
Group anticipates. In addition, fuel cells may 
never be as competitive as other competing 
technologies or direct competitors continue 
to evolve. 
Due to the complex, innovative nature of this technology, projects and programmes 
may not be delivered on time or on budget or may fail to achieve expected performance 
criteria in new product launches or result in deficiencies in the products that are 
launched. Such delays could create an impression that fuel cell technology is not 
suitable or ready, in turn materially impacting on the adoption of the technology  
by customers.
Commercialisation of fuel cell products and technologies also depends upon the 
achievement of a suitable total cost of ownership of these products at volume and 
cost-effective implementation of the technologies, since currently fuel cell products  
at low volumes are more expensive than products based on existing technologies.  
The Company may not be able to sufficiently reduce the cost of these products at 
volume without reducing their performance, reliability and durability, which could 
affect the willingness of customers to buy them.
The Group has dedicated Project Managers who control, monitor and manage identified work packages to meet 
predefined delivery criteria, or escalate material issues internally.
The Group has protected budget and resources for critical projects to ensure competitive advantage and increase  
the likelihood of the technology meeting the desired performance criteria and cost within the relevant timeframe  
to satisfy likely markets.
The Group operates a Project Management framework. This is a gated process to ensure all the required milestones 
within a given project have been performed satisfactorily before approval is given to progress to the next phase  
of the project.
The Group has an internal strategic procurement capability to identify and manage external contract manufacturing 
capability to target economic costs of functional production.
 The Group is currently reliant on a  
small number of customers with various 
contractual obligations; failure to meet  
these commitments could result in penalties, 
contracts not being renewed, or termination 
of existing contracts.  
The Group is reliant on revenue from a small number of customers and there can  
be no assurance that it will be able to obtain additional, or retain existing, customer 
relationships.
Intelligent Energy has a number of customer contracts requiring adherence to 
milestones and service level agreements. A failure to adhere to these contractual 
commitments could lead to financial penalties or in extreme scenarios the loss  
of future activity.
The Group’s customers may experience adverse trading conditions which in turn  
may affect their ability to continue or do further business with the Group.
The Group has divisional Sales & Marketing teams to attract and retain both new and existing business,  
thereby reducing the reliance on a small number of customers.
Contractual commitments are closely monitored internally to underpin delivery and identify corrective action,  
if appropriate.
Due diligence processes are carried out where appropriate and prior to entering into agreements with  
new customers.
The Group aims to maximise revenue opportunities by seeking to enter into long-term commercial arrangements 
with multiple sources of value, for example power management services offered by the DP&G division.
The Group is dependent on a variety of third 
party providers both in the manufacture of 
its products and the supporting operations. 
The Group is reliant on third parties to successfully manufacture its products in the 
required numbers and to the required specification. As a consequence, the Group  
is and will remain exposed to the risks relating to the contract manufacturer’s (‘CM’) 
business. These include:
• CM ability to employ and retain suitably qualified staff;
• level of investment the CM makes in factory premises;
• CM ability to create and effectively manage the supply chain in order to successfully 
and consistently manufacture the Group’s product to the required standards; and
• reputational risks to the Group if the CM fails to meet legal or regulatory standards.
The Group may fail to attract suitable third party providers that it wishes to work with. 
This is particularly relevant with regards to CMs where there may be reluctance due  
to the challenges and risks associated with introducing a new technology to market.
The Group will also continue to rely on third party service providers to deliver its 
business plan. For example, DP&G is dependent on third party subcontractors to 
provide field services for the tower sites under management.
Any failure by such third party service providers to meet their contractual obligations 
to the Group could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or prospects.
The Group partners with industry-leading or specialist companies and has in place a detailed internal process  
to manage its key partners, which includes the Company’s employees being heavily involved in the set up phase  
with the CM.
During the negotiation of commercial agreements, a balanced approach to apportioning risk is sought.
The Group seeks to develop long-term relations with its key suppliers in order to develop quality manufacturing 
systems which are flexible and scalable.
28 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Description Detail Risk management
The Group is developing complex, 
innovative technology products which 
require further technical development and 
investment in infrastructure, along with 
significant adoption by customers. Material 
markets for fuel cell technology may never 
develop, or develop more slowly than the 
Group anticipates. In addition, fuel cells may 
never be as competitive as other competing 
technologies or direct competitors continue 
to evolve. 
Due to the complex, innovative nature of this technology, projects and programmes 
may not be delivered on time or on budget or may fail to achieve expected performance 
criteria in new product launches or result in deficiencies in the products that are 
launched. Such delays could create an impression that fuel cell technology is not 
suitable or ready, in turn materially impacting on the adoption of the technology  
by customers.
Commercialisation of fuel cell products and technologies also depends upon the 
achievement of a suitable total cost of ownership of these products at volume and 
cost-effective implementation of the technologies, since currently fuel cell products  
at low volumes are more expensive than products based on existing technologies.  
The Company may not be able to sufficiently reduce the cost of these products at 
volume without reducing their performance, reliability and durability, which could 
affect the willingness of customers to buy them.
The Group has dedicated Project Managers who control, monitor and manage identified work packages to meet 
predefined delivery criteria, or escalate material issues internally.
The Group has protected budget and resources for critical projects to ensure competitive advantage and increase  
the likelihood of the technology meeting the desired performance criteria and cost within the relevant timeframe  
to satisfy likely markets.
The Group operates a Project Management framework. This is a gated process to ensure all the required milestones 
within a given project have been performed satisfactorily before approval is given to progress to the next phase  
of the project.
The Group has an internal strategic procurement capability to identify and manage external contract manufacturing 
capability to target economic costs of functional production.
 The Group is currently reliant on a  
small number of customers with various 
contractual obligations; failure to meet  
these commitments could result in penalties, 
contracts not being renewed, or termination 
of existing contracts.  
The Group is reliant on revenue from a small number of customers and there can  
be no assurance that it will be able to obtain additional, or retain existing, customer 
relationships.
Intelligent Energy has a number of customer contracts requiring adherence to 
milestones and service level agreements. A failure to adhere to these contractual 
commitments could lead to financial penalties or in extreme scenarios the loss  
of future activity.
The Group’s customers may experience adverse trading conditions which in turn  
may affect their ability to continue or do further business with the Group.
The Group has divisional Sales & Marketing teams to attract and retain both new and existing business,  
thereby reducing the reliance on a small number of customers.
Contractual commitments are closely monitored internally to underpin delivery and identify corrective action,  
if appropriate.
Due diligence processes are carried out where appropriate and prior to entering into agreements with  
new customers.
The Group aims to maximise revenue opportunities by seeking to enter into long-term commercial arrangements 
with multiple sources of value, for example power management services offered by the DP&G division.
The Group is dependent on a variety of third 
party providers both in the manufacture of 
its products and the supporting operations. 
The Group is reliant on third parties to successfully manufacture its products in the 
required numbers and to the required specification. As a consequence, the Group  
is and will remain exposed to the risks relating to the contract manufacturer’s (‘CM’) 
business. These include:
• CM ability to employ and retain suitably qualified staff;
• level of investment the CM makes in factory premises;
• CM ability to create and effectively manage the supply chain in order to successfully 
and consistently manufacture the Group’s product to the required standards; and
• reputational risks to the Group if the CM fails to meet legal or regulatory standards.
The Group may fail to attract suitable third party providers that it wishes to work with. 
This is particularly relevant with regards to CMs where there may be reluctance due  
to the challenges and risks associated with introducing a new technology to market.
The Group will also continue to rely on third party service providers to deliver its 
business plan. For example, DP&G is dependent on third party subcontractors to 
provide field services for the tower sites under management.
Any failure by such third party service providers to meet their contractual obligations 
to the Group could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or prospects.
The Group partners with industry-leading or specialist companies and has in place a detailed internal process  
to manage its key partners, which includes the Company’s employees being heavily involved in the set up phase  
with the CM.
During the negotiation of commercial agreements, a balanced approach to apportioning risk is sought.
The Group seeks to develop long-term relations with its key suppliers in order to develop quality manufacturing 
systems which are flexible and scalable.
Audit & Risk Committee report
page 50
29 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Description Detail Risk management
The Group is dependent on proprietary 
technology underpinned by intellectual 
property (‘IP’) and may not be able to  
obtain, maintain, defend or enforce those  
IP rights. The Group may also be exposed  
to litigation in the future in respect of IP 
infringement or product liability claims.
The Group’s success will depend in part on its ability to obtain, maintain, defend  
and enforce its patents and other IP rights that underpin its proprietary technologies  
and products. There is no assurance that, for example:
• any currently pending or future patent will be granted;
• the Group’s patent applications will not be challenged by third parties;
• where patents have been issued to the Group, others will not be able to design 
around such patents to create a competing technology or product;
• competitors will not develop similar products which are not within the scope  
of the Group’s patents; and
• our IT systems can fully prevent a loss of IP through a cyber-attack
The business carried on by the Group means that it faces inherent risks in respect of  
IP infringement and product liability claims, any of which could materially adversely 
affect the Group’s business, results of operations or financial condition.
Intelligent Energy identifies and registers its IP where appropriate to aid enforcement of its rights, and protects  
and challenges infringement, where appropriate. It also looks to regularly extend its proprietary knowledge through 
acquisition with continued ongoing research activities.
IP boundaries and ownership are an integral part of the contracts which the Group enters into at all levels  
in the business.
As part of a new employee’s induction, IP training is given which emphasises the importance and relevance of IP  
to the Group’s activities. 
We have specialist in-house IP capability that oversees all IP activity including the management of external IP  
service providers.
We have an IT security framework and roadmap in place which highlights the highest cyber risks. The roadmap  
is being implemented with priority on highest risk items. As new cyber risks develop the roadmap and priorities 
adjust accordingly.
The Group will need to raise additional  
funds to meet its growth and shareholder 
return aspirations.
Delay or failure to raise additional funds to meet the Group’s growth aspirations could 
limit returns available to shareholders.
The Group regularly monitors the level of potential future financing requirements and engages where appropriate 
with financing advisers to review options for raising additional funds, where required.
The Group engages with banks and investors from around the world to diversify potential sources of  
future investment. 
The Group will seek to recover technology development costs from its partners when entering into a Joint 
Development Agreement.
The Group models alternative business scenarios if there are significant delays in raising additional funds.
The Group’s growth strategy involves 
operating in fast-growing economies of  
the world, where there may be additional 
complexities in delivering the business plan.
The Group’s growth strategy relies in part on the expansion of its businesses in parts  
of the world which are less developed. The costs, risks and competition associated  
with maintaining a foothold in such markets may be higher than expected.
The Group understands its business may face a range of risks and challenges in its 
initial target markets, including:
• difficulties in managing overseas operations;
• overcoming cultural differences in business;
• difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of receivables  
under the legal systems of foreign countries;
•  regulatory and legal requirements affecting its ability to enter new markets through 
joint ventures with local entities;
• changes or inconsistent application of laws and regulations; and 
• overcoming the logistical challenges of the supply and delivery of hydrogen.
The Group employs where appropriate relevant personnel who have strong international backgrounds.
Where appropriate, recruitment also takes place locally to ensure these businesses understand local markets,  
customs and working places.
External advisers are sourced locally to ensure legal and regulatory compliance.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency 
exchange risk.
The majority of the Group’s business is carried out in currencies other than Sterling,  
in particular for the DP&G division. As the Group’s financial statements are prepared  
in Sterling, it is exposed to both translational and transactional foreign exchange risk.
The Group monitors foreign exchange rates on a weekly basis and enters into forward rate agreements where  
large-value obligations exist at a known date, where deemed suitable.
During the year, a new Treasury function has been established which helps to manage foreign exchange exposure.
The Group faces risks in executing the  
GTL deal and delivering the business plan 
thereafter as envisaged.
A number of conditions precedent are required in order to complete the acquisition  
of the energy management business from GTL; the most significant of which relates  
to external fundraising. There is a risk of failing to complete this process, as well as not 
achieving the other required conditions, meaning a delayed completion, or the 
transaction not completing at all.
If all of the conditions precedent are successfully achieved the Group may face a range 
of risks and challenges post acquisition, for example:
•  loss of key personnel currently involved in the delivery of the energy management 
contracts and of sub-contracted services;
• delivering the strategy at scale to deliver margin growth;
• revenue volatility caused by market price of diesel and electricity; and
• ensuring all banking covenants are met. 
Fundraising, where appropriate, is conducted using strong banking advisory relationships to help to deliver the 
required funding outcome.
There has been a thorough pre-transaction review of the business and through the operation of the interim contract 
with GTL, Essential Energy has acquired operational experience of the GTL energy management business and has 
been able to develop key relationships.
Key members of the Essential Energy team have prior experience of working in the telecom tower industry.
The majority of the cost-base is diesel and grid electricity consumed at tower sites. Whilst consumption volume risk 
will be managed by Essential Energy, revenue is calculated using the market price of both diesel and electricity,  
thus protecting margins.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
30 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Description Detail Risk management
The Group is dependent on proprietary 
technology underpinned by intellectual 
property (‘IP’) and may not be able to  
obtain, maintain, defend or enforce those  
IP rights. The Group may also be exposed  
to litigation in the future in respect of IP 
infringement or product liability claims.
The Group’s success will depend in part on its ability to obtain, maintain, defend  
and enforce its patents and other IP rights that underpin its proprietary technologies  
and products. There is no assurance that, for example:
• any currently pending or future patent will be granted;
• the Group’s patent applications will not be challenged by third parties;
• where patents have been issued to the Group, others will not be able to design 
around such patents to create a competing technology or product;
• competitors will not develop similar products which are not within the scope  
of the Group’s patents; and
• our IT systems can fully prevent a loss of IP through a cyber-attack
The business carried on by the Group means that it faces inherent risks in respect of  
IP infringement and product liability claims, any of which could materially adversely 
affect the Group’s business, results of operations or financial condition.
Intelligent Energy identifies and registers its IP where appropriate to aid enforcement of its rights, and protects  
and challenges infringement, where appropriate. It also looks to regularly extend its proprietary knowledge through 
acquisition with continued ongoing research activities.
IP boundaries and ownership are an integral part of the contracts which the Group enters into at all levels  
in the business.
As part of a new employee’s induction, IP training is given which emphasises the importance and relevance of IP  
to the Group’s activities. 
We have specialist in-house IP capability that oversees all IP activity including the management of external IP  
service providers.
We have an IT security framework and roadmap in place which highlights the highest cyber risks. The roadmap  
is being implemented with priority on highest risk items. As new cyber risks develop the roadmap and priorities 
adjust accordingly.
The Group will need to raise additional  
funds to meet its growth and shareholder 
return aspirations.
Delay or failure to raise additional funds to meet the Group’s growth aspirations could 
limit returns available to shareholders.
The Group regularly monitors the level of potential future financing requirements and engages where appropriate 
with financing advisers to review options for raising additional funds, where required.
The Group engages with banks and investors from around the world to diversify potential sources of  
future investment. 
The Group will seek to recover technology development costs from its partners when entering into a Joint 
Development Agreement.
The Group models alternative business scenarios if there are significant delays in raising additional funds.
The Group’s growth strategy involves 
operating in fast-growing economies of  
the world, where there may be additional 
complexities in delivering the business plan.
The Group’s growth strategy relies in part on the expansion of its businesses in parts  
of the world which are less developed. The costs, risks and competition associated  
with maintaining a foothold in such markets may be higher than expected.
The Group understands its business may face a range of risks and challenges in its 
initial target markets, including:
• difficulties in managing overseas operations;
• overcoming cultural differences in business;
• difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of receivables  
under the legal systems of foreign countries;
•  regulatory and legal requirements affecting its ability to enter new markets through 
joint ventures with local entities;
• changes or inconsistent application of laws and regulations; and 
• overcoming the logistical challenges of the supply and delivery of hydrogen.
The Group employs where appropriate relevant personnel who have strong international backgrounds.
Where appropriate, recruitment also takes place locally to ensure these businesses understand local markets,  
customs and working places.
External advisers are sourced locally to ensure legal and regulatory compliance.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency 
exchange risk.
The majority of the Group’s business is carried out in currencies other than Sterling,  
in particular for the DP&G division. As the Group’s financial statements are prepared  
in Sterling, it is exposed to both translational and transactional foreign exchange risk.
The Group monitors foreign exchange rates on a weekly basis and enters into forward rate agreements where  
large-value obligations exist at a known date, where deemed suitable.
During the year, a new Treasury function has been established which helps to manage foreign exchange exposure.
The Group faces risks in executing the  
GTL deal and delivering the business plan 
thereafter as envisaged.
A number of conditions precedent are required in order to complete the acquisition  
of the energy management business from GTL; the most significant of which relates  
to external fundraising. There is a risk of failing to complete this process, as well as not 
achieving the other required conditions, meaning a delayed completion, or the 
transaction not completing at all.
If all of the conditions precedent are successfully achieved the Group may face a range 
of risks and challenges post acquisition, for example:
•  loss of key personnel currently involved in the delivery of the energy management 
contracts and of sub-contracted services;
• delivering the strategy at scale to deliver margin growth;
• revenue volatility caused by market price of diesel and electricity; and
• ensuring all banking covenants are met. 
Fundraising, where appropriate, is conducted using strong banking advisory relationships to help to deliver the 
required funding outcome.
There has been a thorough pre-transaction review of the business and through the operation of the interim contract 
with GTL, Essential Energy has acquired operational experience of the GTL energy management business and has 
been able to develop key relationships.
Key members of the Essential Energy team have prior experience of working in the telecom tower industry.
The majority of the cost-base is diesel and grid electricity consumed at tower sites. Whilst consumption volume risk 
will be managed by Essential Energy, revenue is calculated using the market price of both diesel and electricity,  
thus protecting margins.
31 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The DP&G business in India, through the interim 
contract arrangements with GTL, saw significant 
revenue expansion year on year. £72.2m of 
revenue was recorded in DP&G (2013/14: £5.0m), 
representing in particular strong growth in H2 
from this new line of business.
Chief Financial Officer’s review
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer
At a consolidated financial level, 2014/15 saw 
significant revenue growth and a reduction 
in losses attributable to shareholders. 
Within these headline numbers, the Group 
saw a number of contrasting financial 
trends by division. 
The DP&G business in India, through the 
interim contract arrangements with GTL, 
saw significant revenue expansion year on 
year. This was delivered, as expected under 
the interim arrangements, at low margins, 
resulting in negative divisional EBITDA for 
the year, once central divisional costs were 
accounted for. The signing of higher-margin 
long-term contracts with GTL provides 
confidence that the DP&G division will 
move into positive EBITDA in the year 
ahead, once the conditions precedent 
related to the contract are cleared. 
In Motive, the phasing of new JDA 
arrangements saw a decline in revenue  
year on year and a small negative EBITDA 
contribution for the year as a whole. 
Customer traction since the end of the  
year and the broader positive sentiment 
and deployment of industrial capital in a 
number of key markets underpin confidence 
that the current year will strengthen the 
financial performance of the Motive division.
The CE division, from a trading perspective, 
saw a disappointing year in 2014/15, with 
limited sales of Upp, launched in UK Apple 
stores in November 2014. This was 
counterbalanced by the successful acquisition 
of fuel cell IP and assets from BIC, for £10m, 
which are expected to play a key role in 
delivering embedded Intelligent Energy fuel 
cell designs in a variety of consumer and 
portable products. The investment thesis 
for the acquisition reflected the cost of 
developing equivalent capability in-house, 
and the time it would take to do so, against 
the prospect of pulling forward the mass 
deployment of embedded fuel cells where 
the Group believes that significant value 
should accrue to the shareholders of 
Intelligent Energy. 
Underpinning the three customer-facing 
divisions is a fourth area of the business, 
Platform Support, which combines activities 
relating to research and development, 
product development, operations and 
business services. These costs fell slightly 
year on year, as costs relating to the IPO  
of the Group in the prior year were not 
repeated, and a series of efficiency activities 
mitigated the rise in costs elsewhere in the 
division to underpin the expected trading 
performance in the core of the business. 
With respect to the balance sheet, the 
Platform Support costs and negative 
EBITDA and investment activities in the 
three trading divisions represent a planned 
consumption of cash in the business, with 
cash balances declining over the course of 
the year, to £24.2m at 30 September 2015. 
The successful signing of long-term 
contracts for £1.2bn of revenue over the 
next decade in DP&G requires short-term 
acquisition funding of approximately £85m: 
£60m from senior bank debt and £25m from 
Group. Additional funds will also be required 
to continue activities relating to Platform 
Support and CE. Work is well underway at 
the time of writing to support the additional 
funding required relating to these needs. 
Consolidated income 
statement
Revenue and gross margin
Revenue for the year was £78.2m (201 3/14: 
£1 3.6m). This reflects strong progression 
within the year, and year on year, with 
second-half 2014/15 revenue of £50.8m 
(201 3/14 H2: £10.1m), compared to H1 2014/15 
revenue of £27 .4m (201 3/14 H1:£3.5m).  
In addition, the mix of revenue by division 
year on year changed materially, with Motive 
representing 63 per cent of revenue in 
201 3/14, and DP&G 92 per cent of revenue  
in 2014/15. 
£72.2m of revenue was recorded in DP&G 
(2013/14: £5.0m), representing in particular 
strong growth in H2 from this new line of 
business. DP&G commenced trading in 
March 2014, and saw a material step change 
in its activities with the signing of an interim 
energy supply agreement with GTL in India 
in August 2014, covering approximately 
10,000 telecoms tower sites. This expanded 
to approximately 27 ,400 sites from April 2015. 
£5.9m of revenue was derived from the 
Motive division (2013/14: £8.6m), balanced 
towards the first half of the year due to  
the pattern of joint development activities 
entered into. Revenue was derived from  
joint development and public body funded 
project-related activity only, with the 
expectation that this will develop in future 
periods into further licensing and royalty 
opportunities, some of which are already 
contracted as options or agreed royalties 
based on the volume of production at the 
time. This aspect of Motive’s revenue stream 
is expected to be variable and difficult to 
predict in terms of when such opportunities, 
which are expected to be material in revenue 
and margin terms, might occur. 
For the year, CE generated less than £0.1m  
of revenue (2013/14: £nil). This was very 
disappointing and not in line with the 
original internal expectations for this 
business. A number of issues, including 
manufacturing concerns relating to fuel 
cartridge production, meant that commercial 
take-up in the period was limited, although 
the presence of Upp in UK Apple retail 
stores represented a significant technology 
validation point for Intelligent Energy. 
Action was taken during the year to reset 
the cost base of the CE business and 
accelerate the journey to embedded fuel 
cell technology where material value is 
considered to be concentrated.
Over 99 per cent of revenue in the year 
related to activity for customers based 
outside the UK. 
32 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Gross margin represents revenue less cost of 
sales. Cost of sales in the period reflects fuel 
costs in the DP&G division, labour costs, 
materials and direct facilities costs used in 
delivering contracted revenue-earning projects 
in Motive and the cost of production of orders 
for Upp. Gross margin for the year was £2.3m 
(201 3/1 4: £3.7m) and in percentage terms, 3 per 
cent of revenue (201 3/1 4: 27 per cent). The 
reduction in the percentage gross margin year 
on year reflected additional revenue in DP&G 
being incurred under a low-margin interim 
agreement basis with GTL, and the lower 
absolute gross margin reflected lower revenue 
from higher-margin Motive activity.
Research and development 
In the year, R&D expenditure amounted to 
£19.1m (2013/14: £21.3m). R&D costs mainly 
comprise staff costs, outsourced services and 
material costs related to fuel cell research 
and development, covering both air cooled 
and evaporatively cooled technology. The 
overall decrease year on year of £2.2m 
reflected the capitalisation of £2m of 
development costs for the 305 modular fuel 
cell systems deployed on telecom tower sites 
in India, a lower level of material usage and 
outsourced services supporting the R&D 
programmes during the year. An average  
of 105 (2013/14: 104) directly employed staff 
have been engaged in R&D over the course 
of the year. 
Operations and Application Engineering
Operations and Application Engineering 
expenditure in the year amounted to £24.9m 
(2013/14: £21.1m). The increase in costs year 
on year reflects higher headcount, with an 
average of 215 directly employed staff in  
the year (2013/14: 175). Activities covered 
include Application Engineering, solutions 
development, supplier management, 
logistics, facilities and IT.
Administration costs
Administration costs in the year amounted 
to £12.1m (2013/14: £16.9m), the reduction 
year on year mainly reflecting the absence 
of IPO and equity raising related costs in 
2014/15. Administration costs comprise 
commercial and corporate activities, 
including sales, marketing, HR, finance, 
legal and procurement. An average of 1 16 
(2013/14: 75) directly employed staff have 
been engaged in this area over the course 
of the year. 
Adjusted EBITDA 
EBITDA (Earnings before Interest, Tax, 
Depreciation and Amortisation) is a 
non-statutory measure that is widely used 
as an indicator of trading profitability and a 
proxy for a company’s operating cashflow, 
before any cash movements relating to 
investment, tax, funding and changes in 
working capital. It is not an IFRS measure, 
and not therefore shown in the Group 
income statement. 
For Intelligent Energy, EBITDA is measured 
as revenue less cost of sales less R&D and 
Operations and Application Engineering 
costs and administration costs, adjusted for 
depreciation, one-off fundraising costs and 
the IFRS 2 share-based payments charge, 
which is predominantly non cash based.  
On this measure, adjusted EBITDA for the 
year was a loss of £46.2m (2013/14 loss: 
£39.4m). The movement in EBITDA reflected 
the impact of £1.4m of lower gross margin,  
and planned higher operating costs of 
£5.4m to support increased activity across 
the three divisions.
(Loss)/profit for the year
The loss for the year was £42.8m (2013/14 
loss: £48.2m), being a reflection of the 
adjusted EBITDA reported above, and the 
following items:
• The Group’s share of the loss on joint 
ventures accounted for under the equity 
method of £0.8m (2013/14: £1.0m). This was 
offset by the receipt of an earn out of £1.5m 
in the year from the sale of the Company’s 
50 per cent share in Emerald Automotive in 
2013/14, for which the Group recorded an 
initial profit on disposal of £1.0m.
• Net interest charges of £1.3m (2013/14: 
£4.0m), with no interest accruing in 
2014/15 for the convertible loan notes 
issued in H2 2012/13. These notes were 
converted to equity in July 2014 and no 
further interest charges are recorded post 
conversion. An income tax credit of £1 1.6m 
(2013/14: £1 1.4m) reflects the net impact  
of R&D tax credits and deferred tax credits 
relating to the trading losses in the UK. 
• Equity issue costs of £0.3m (2013/14: £7 .0m) 
and an IFRS 2 share-based payments 
charge of £2.3m (2013/14: £6.0m).
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment at £8.5m 
(2014: £6.9m) represented additions of 
£4.8m in the year, offset by depreciation  
of £3.2m. Additions included test rigs and 
chambers and other equipment for the 
commercialisation programmes. Intangible 
assets at £27 .0m (2014: £1 1.5m) reflected 
additions of £17 .3m and amortisation of 
£1.8m. Intangible assets primarily represent 
the Group’s intellectual property patent 
portfolio of over 1,000 patents, including 
patents pending. The BIC acquisitions in  
the year contributed materially to additions 
in the year.
Investments using the equity method
The Group accounts for joint ventures  
using the equity method, and includes the 
carrying-value of its share of positive net 
assets in the statement of financial position. 
Joint ventures comprise IE CHP , Aquapurum 
Water in India and SMILE FC System 
Corporation. In the year, the carrying-value 
of the joint ventures moved from £1.4m to 
£1.1m, mainly reflecting Intelligent Energy’s 
share of net costs and the retranslation of 
the net assets of SMILE FC System Corporation. 
£78.2m
Revenue
2013/2014: £13.6m
£2.3m
Gross margin
2013/2014: £3.7m 
33 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Financial Officer’s review continued
Current assets
Inventory at £5.3m (2014: £4.1m) was higher 
year on year due to the production of Upp 
fuel cell chargers with the initial year end 
stocks of Upp planned to be deployed in 
India. Inventory includes material used for 
DP&G fuel cell units and Motive activities.
Trade and other receivables at £1 1.9m (2014: 
£12.9m) were slightly down year on year. 
The cash and short-term deposits balance 
at £24.2m (2014: £88.9m) represents the 
funding of EBITDA losses in the year, 
adjusted for movements in working capital, 
together with capital and other investments 
and interest movements.
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables at 30 September 
2015 were £14.2m (2014: £17 .6m). 
Convertible loan notes
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc issued an 
unsecured convertible loan note in August 
2013 for £32.5m with a coupon rate of 5 per 
cent, compounding annually, which was 
due to mature in 2017 . The loan note was  
a compound financial instrument and for 
accounting purposes was split into a debt 
component (£18.5m at 30 September 2013) 
and an equity component of £12.3m.
The loan note converted into shares at IPO in 
July 2014 and the debt component was 
retired, including accrued interest. The equity 
component remains as a frozen balance. 
Commitments
At 30 September 2015, outstanding 
purchase orders amounted to £6.2m  
(2014 £16.2m). Intelligent Energy is also 
contractually committed to a further  
¥500m (£2.8m) investment in SMILE FC 
System Corporation, expected in 2016.
Key performance 
indicators
DP&G division
Progress in the DP&G division can be 
measured in the short to medium term  
by the number of towers under contract, 
the number of sites that have fuel cells 
deployed and which are carrying second 
customers, together with the average 
revenue per site.
Motive division
Progress in the Motive division in the  
short to medium term can be gauged  
by the number of key OEM customers  
and the stage of their journey in  
purchasing access to Intelligent Energy’s  
IP and associated royalties.
CE division
Progress in the short term in the CE  
division can be measured by reference  
to the number and size of funded Joint 
Development Agreements entered into. 
Group risk factors
As with all businesses, the Group is affected 
by certain risks, not wholly within its control, 
which could have a material impact on the 
Group’s long-term performance and cause 
actual results to differ materially from forecast 
and historic results. The principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are set out  
on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic report.
Going concern
The Group meets its day to day working 
capital requirements through its cash 
resources. The current position of the  
Group and its development plans result  
in cash consumption for the foreseeable 
future. As noted above, the business  
has plans for significant expansion.  
The cash balance at the year-end of £24.2m 
is not sufficient to allow the Company to 
implement its business plan in full without 
additional funding. As previously announced, 
Intelligent Energy intends to raise additional 
funds through a two tier process.  
Both transactions are consistent with 
Intelligent Energy’s objective of protecting 
existing shareholders. Firstly, this involves a 
proposed issue of a convertible instrument 
to industrial partners. Secondly, the 
Company realises there is significant value 
in aspects of its DP&G Indian operations 
and has therefore appointed Jefferies, the 
investment bank, to assist the Company  
in realising some of this value to finance its 
current and future growth plans and notes 
that it has been in discussions with potential 
investors since the early summer. As a result 
the Board has sufficient reason to believe 
that additional funding will be forthcoming 
within the required time frame to support 
the planned expansion of the business. 
The Board has also carefully considered the 
Company’s position in the event that the 
additional financing to fund the planned 
expansion is not forthcoming. In that scenario, 
the Board is satisfied that it retains sufficient 
discretion over costs linked to expansion 
plans, and the ability to manage the business 
in a way which allows it to fulfil its appropriate 
commitments and settle its obligations  
as they fall due. It is on this basis that the 
Directors have formed their opinion that the 
Company remains a going concern and the 
financial statements should be, and have 
been, drawn up on that basis.
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer
27 November 2015
34 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Corporate 
responsibility 
framework
Providing clean power technologies is at the forefront  
of our commitment to responsibility.
Corporate responsibility
Our core guiding 
principles
Intelligent Energy’s core 
corporate values of integrity, 
pride, passion, innovation 
and resilience are extremely 
important within the 
business: they create the 
cultural context in which  
our employees work, as  
well as defining how fellow 
employees interact and the 
attitudes adopted towards 
the Group’s customers: 
business is to be conducted 
in an open, honest and 
ethical manner.
2
 
Diversity  
and employment
6
  
The environment
3
 
Health & Safety
4
 
Human rights
5
 
Supplier code  
of conduct
1
 
Employee  
engagement, 
consultation and  
development
35 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Corporate responsibility continued
Employee engagement, consultation 
and development 
The Company attaches significant 
importance to good employee relations, 
employee engagement and employee 
development. We recognise our 
responsibilities for the fair treatment and 
equality of opportunity of all current and 
future employees in accordance with 
legislation applicable to the territories  
in which the business operates.
As part of our “Staying Informed” 
communications plan we have a range  
of communication mechanisms to ensure 
employees remain up to date on business 
issues. Monthly ‘Breakfast Meetings’ are held 
at the Head Office in Loughborough, UK 
where different departments and individuals 
provide updates on current initiatives and 
projects. Unless site-specific, the content  
of these meetings is then shared with the 
rest of the business via a variety of delivery 
channels. Our sites hold similar team 
briefings to share Company-wide and  
local achievements, challenges and goals.  
In line with this, we hold Company-wide 
communication events at least once a year,  
at which our CEO, Dr Henri Winand, and 
members of the Executive Leadership team 
update employees on key achievements  
and current business challenges. These 
messages are shared across our global 
regions, albeit just under 77 per cent of  
the Group’s workforce is currently based  
at Intelligent Energy’s Loughborough,  
UK, head office. 
Each year, all employees have the 
opportunity to take part in a Company-
wide employee opinion survey, managed 
through an external provider. With a 
response rate of over 84 per cent, the  
survey provides valuable feedback on  
what is working well and future areas  
for improvement.
To foster good employee relations, senior 
members of the management team also 
meet on a regular basis with employee 
representatives in a forum called ‘Speak 
Easy’. This forum provides an opportunity 
for employee concerns and suggestions  
to be shared, discussed and actively 
responded to.
Intelligent Energy is committed to ensuring 
that its employees have the appropriate level 
of knowledge, skills and competencies for 
their current and any potential future role 
within the Company. Employees are actively 
encouraged to engage in personal and 
professional development to help them 
achieve their full potential. Of note, last year 
Intelligent Energy delivered 108 courses, 
covering 248 employees and totalling  
787 days’ worth of training. Programmes 
covered a range of technical, Health & Safety, 
compliance, interpersonal and leadership 
training. The Group also supported further 
educational programmes.
Our innovative approach to broad based 
engagement and development is 
demonstrated in the formation of ‘EnergIE’ , an 
employee self-directed group which is active 
in promoting professional body membership, 
STEM activities (promotion of Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics  
to inspire young people) and Community 
Outreach. The Group currently has 26 STEM 
ambassadors who are particularly active  
with schools near our head office location, in 
Loughborough, UK, and the Go4SET Project 
with the Engineering Development Trust.
Diversity and employment 
Intelligent Energy is committed to actively 
promoting equality and diversity and 
eliminating discrimination in all aspects  
of its employment and business. We aim  
to develop an environment that is free from 
discrimination where all individuals are  
able to freely contribute their skills and are 
encouraged to develop to their full potential.
The table below provides a breakdown of 
employees by gender as at 30 September 
2015 in relation to: 
i.  the number of persons who were 
Directors of the Company; 
ii. the number of persons who were  
senior managers of the Company; and 
iii. the total number of employees in  
the Company.
Number of males % Number of females %
Directors 8 88.89 1 11.11
Senior managers
1
14 93.33 1 6.67
Employees 321 80.65 77 19.35
Total 343 81.28 79 18.72
1.  Senior employees are classed as members of the Company’s Executive Leadership team (other than Dr Henri Winand and John Maguire, who are counted within the Directors numbers 
shown above, as they are Executive Directors of the Company) and other senior employees who were Directors of subsidiary companies within the Group as at 30 September 2015.
36 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Health & Safety 
At Intelligent Energy, we are committed  
to providing a safe working environment 
for all of our employees, whether located at 
the head office site in Loughborough, UK, 
or one of our offices outside the UK.
As part of this commitment, in early 2014, 
the Company achieved OHSAS 18001 
Occupational Health & Safety certification 
through the British Standards Institution 
(‘BSI’). This certification gives recognition  
to the Health & Safety management system 
deployed within our main Loughborough, 
UK, head office site and represented a 
significant milestone in achieving the 
overall goal of continuous Health and  
Safety improvements. During August 2015, 
auditors from the BSI carried out their 
annual surveillance audit of the Company’s 
OHSAS 18001 Health & Safety management 
systems and confirmed that adequate 
procedures remained in place.
During the past year, various other Health  
& Safety improvement initiatives have  
been undertaken, under the guidance  
of our specialist Health & Safety manager,  
who is based at our Loughborough, UK, 
head office site. 
Improvement initiatives that have been  
or are now in the process of being 
undertaken include additional specific 
training for employees who regularly work 
within high-risk areas of the building, the 
consideration of appropriate training for 
members of the Executive Leadership Team 
and other senior managers within the 
business, the establishment of a Group-wide 
Health & Safety Committee with defined 
terms of reference and senior management 
involvement, the provision of additional 
personal protective equipment for 
employees working within high-risk areas  
of the business and the development of a 
Health & Safety legal compliance risk register.
During the course of 2015, we have been 
actively developing our Health & Safety 
competence with 33 per cent of training 
activities dedicated to ensuring that key 
Health & Safety skills are in place. For 2016, 
plans are currently being drawn up to 
increase employee engagement in driving  
a Health & Safety focus through ongoing 
training initiatives and an Employee Health 
& Safety Committee.
Elsewhere within the organisation, 
improvements are also being made to align 
policies and procedures throughout the 
Group, to ensure that overseas operations 
adhere to the same stringent Health & 
Safety standards that we have already 
adopted within the UK business. To help 
facilitate this approach, an extended Health 
& Safety Committee has been established, 
designed to ensure that key Health & Safety 
matters from all of the Group’s businesses 
around the world are captured, discussed at 
a senior level and appropriate actions taken. 
Linked to this Group-wide approach, Key 
Performance Indicators (and processes to 
record the relevant statistics necessary to 
collate the KPI scores) are in the process of 
being developed.
Human rights 
Intelligent Energy does not currently have 
in place a policy that specifically deals with 
human rights; consideration will be given  
as to whether a specific human rights policy 
is required in future over and above existing 
policies, taking into account the size and 
nature of the business and the areas of  
the world in which we have business 
operations. We recognise that elements  
of our supply chain are established in parts 
of the world where human rights issues are 
more prevalent and have been publicised  
in the context of manufacturing activities. 
The Group utilises its contracts to ensure 
that its suppliers operate to high standards 
and that compliance is capable of being 
monitored and audited.
37 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued
We acknowledge our commitment to  
the broader and immediate societal and 
environmental advantages of this transition, 
as well as the long-term goal of stabilising 
greenhouse gases at levels that avoid 
dangerous climate change.
Towards the end of the last financial year,  
we achieved ISO 14001 certification in 
relation to the Company’s head office  
site in Loughborough, UK; this followed  
an audit by the British Standards  
Institution and gives recognition to  
our continuing work around managing  
and reducing the environmental impact  
of the Company’s operations.
The initial certification process was carried 
out over the course of six months and 
focused on our environmental policies and 
procedures, including waste management, 
water discharge and chemical release to the 
atmosphere. In August 2015, auditors from 
the BSI carried out their first annual audit  
of the Company’s environmental 
management systems and confirmed that 
adequate procedures remained in place.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme
The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 
(‘ESOS’) Regulations 2014 (which transpose 
Article 8 of the EU Directive 2012/27/EU on 
energy efficiency), came into force on 17 July 
2014, and are intended to help deliver part of 
the EU’s 20 per cent improvement in energy 
efficiency. The ESOS Regulations require 
qualifying organisations to measure energy 
consumption, evaluate energy efficiency, 
identify management opportunities, store 
data and notify the Environment Agency by 
5 December 2015 that an ESOS compliance 
audit has been completed. We have been 
working with CMR Consultants Limited,  
to ensure that the Group meets its ESOS 
compliance obligations.
Supplier code of conduct
We are committed to ensuring that 
third-party suppliers involved in our supply 
chain processes operate to certain standards, 
which include the safe and fair treatment of 
employees around the world and trying to 
minimise our environmental impact.
To achieve this, we require our suppliers  
to abide by a code of conduct to facilitate  
the sourcing of products and services from 
suppliers that share our values and ethics  
in relation to labour, Health & Safety, 
business ethics, management systems  
and anti-bribery and corruption standards. 
At Intelligent Energy, we believe that good 
workplace standards are important elements 
in developing a successful business.
The environment
In the International Energy Agency (‘IEA’) 
2015 Technology Roadmap for Hydrogen 
and Fuel Cells, Executive Director Maria van 
der Hoeven states “current trends in energy 
supply and use are patently unsustainable 
– economically, environmentally and 
socially” . She also notes, “hydrogen and  
fuel cell technologies, once they are more 
developed, can support climate change and 
energy security goals in several sectors of 
the energy system, such as the transport, 
industry, buildings and the power sector” .
Concern about climate change has now 
become the most significant driving- 
factor in the quest for alternative energy 
strategies and a hydrogen infrastructure; 
however, it is important to remember  
that fuel cells also have the capability  
to address a range of acute socio-
environmental problems associated  
with local energy needs. As the urban 
population concentration trend continues, 
improvement in air quality at street level  
is essential to protect the health of the 
individual. The transition from internal 
combustion engines towards fuel cells in 
both vehicles and stationary generators 
brings the more immediate health benefits 
of reduced ambient concentration of NO
X
, 
volatile organic toxins and particulate 
matter aerosols. 
Intelligent Energy, together with our 
customers and partners, is at the forefront  
of development and deployment of key 
enabling fuel cell technologies in global mass 
markets for a future hydrogen economy.  
38 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Greenhouse gas emissions
This is the second 
Greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) 
emissions report produced 
by the Company following 
our admission to the London 
Stock Exchange on 9 July 
2014. Data has been prepared for the 
reporting period of 1 October 2014 to  
30 September 2015, in accordance with 
the principles and requirements of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Revised 
Edition, ISO 14064 Part 1 and DEFRA 
guidance on how to measure and report 
on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013.
All emission sources have been reported 
as required under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic report and Directors’ report) 
Regulations 43 – See Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic report and Directors’ report) 
Regulations 2013 paragraph 18.
These sources fall within the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements. The 
Company does not have responsibility for any 
emission sources that are not included in its 
consolidated statements. In compiling the 
Company’s GHG data, the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) has been used, together  
with the Company’s own GHG reporting 
procedure and emission factors from the  
UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors.
All material emissions from within the 
organisational and operational scope and 
boundaries of the Company are reported. 
These reported emissions cover all entities 
over which the Company had financial 
control as of 30 September 2015. Emissions 
from entities and assets acquired or disposed 
of during the reporting period (i.e. disposed 
of before 30 September 2015, or acquired 
The Strategic report set out on pages 02 to 39 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Nicholas Heard
Company Secretary
27 November 2015
Global GHG Emissions data for period 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015:
Emissions Sources Tonnes CO
2
e
1
Baseline Tonnes CO
2
e 
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 61 tonnes
2
49 tonnes 
Electricity, heat and steam purchased for own use 2,325 tonnes
3
2,243 tonnes
Company’s chosen intensity measurement: 
Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes per £1,000 turnover
 
0.03
 
0.17
Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes per employee
4
5.65 5.52
1. CO
2
e – carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
2.  It is to be noted that there are only limited combustion activities relating to heating activities at Intelligent Energy’s main Loughborough, UK, site. The main heating requirement 
is fulfilled by a centralised combined heat and power plant located within the grounds of Loughborough University. Therefore, the attributable Scope 1 emissions related to 
combustion activities are relatively small. The emissions associated with the air conditioning and refrigeration equipment used on the site have been calculated from the service 
records detailing actual top-up quantities, using the guidance provided in Annex C of the DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
3.  The Scope 2 emissions include emissions in relation to electricity usage at Intelligent Energy’s Loughborough, UK, site. In addition, the emissions related to the heat supplied to 
the Company by the centralised combined heat and power plant, located within the grounds of Loughborough University, are also included. 
4. The total number of employees in the baseline year (as at 30 September 2014) was reported as 415. This increased to 422 as at 30 September 2015. 
after 1 October 2014) are not accounted 
for within the reported GHG data.
As this is the second financial reporting year 
in which the Company has been required to 
disclose its GHG emissions data within its 
Annual Report, progress is reported against 
the baseline established in the 201 4 report. 
The 201 5 increase in total carbon emissions 
can be attributed in part to the enlargement 
of occupied floor space held at leased head 
office premises in Loughborough, UK.  
The Company continues to work with its 
landlord (Loughborough University) and  
via the Energy Savings Opportunities 
Scheme to identify and carry out 
improvements to reduce its level of GHG 
emissions. Intelligent Energy continues to 
expand and the boundary approach will  
be reviewed on an annual basis in order to 
ensure that it continues to suitably represent 
the Company’s carbon emissions.
39 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board diversity
 Men (8)
 Women (1)
Length of tenure
1
 4+ years (2)
 2 to 4 years (5)
 Less than 2 years (2)
2
Director background
 Business management (2)
 Engineering/technology (3)
 Finance (4)
Composition and independence
 Non-executive Chairman (1)
 Independent Non-executive Directors (4)
 Other Non-executive Directors (2)
 Executive Directors (2)
Chairman’s introduction to governance
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
Dear shareholder,
As the Company’s shares are admitted to 
the standard listing segment (rather than 
the premium listed segment) of the Official 
List of the Financial Conduct Authority, the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘UK Code’) are not applicable to 
the Company. However, the Directors have 
considered the principles and provisions of 
the UK Code when setting the Company’s 
corporate governance policies.
The Board believes that good governance 
helps to underpin the success of the Company 
and its achievement of long-term objectives 
for the benefit of its shareholders.
As Chairman, I take responsibility for 
ensuring that good governance is operated 
within the Group. The Board is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance; the corporate governance 
report on pages 47 to 49, the Audit & Risk 
Committee report on pages 50 to 52, the 
Nomination Committee report on page 53 
and the Directors’ Remuneration report  
on pages 54 to 69 describe how the 
Company seeks to meet the principles  
of good governance.
Under my leadership, the Board manages, 
controls and directs the material activities 
of the Group, as well as determining its 
values and standards from an ethical, 
operational and commercial perspective. 
All Directors who are currently serving  
on the Board constructively challenge the 
Executive Directors and members of the 
senior management team. The composition 
of the Board is key to its effectiveness and I 
believe that our Board has the diversity and 
mix of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the business to enable us to 
discharge our responsibilities successfully.
1. As at 30 September 2015.
2.  Dr Philip Mitchell was appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2013 but prior to this held various 
Executive Director positions in the Company. The above statistics are based on Dr Mitchell’s Non-executive Director 
appointment date.
Board composition
The Board remains committed to maintaining the 
high standards of corporate governance required 
to ensure that the Company can deliver on its 
strategic objectives and to achieve long-term 
success for the benefit of its shareholders.
40 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc  
 
 
 
 
Key 
responsibilities 
of the Board
Commercial 
and trading 
performance
Strategy, policy, 
governance 
and nancial
frameworks
Suitable risk 
management 
policies and 
procedures
Board remuneration,
composition,
succession plans 
and performance 
evaluation
Internal
management
control systems
Approval of 
material contracts, 
capital projects, 
acquisitions, 
disposals and other 
major investments
Satisfactory
dialogue and
reporting to
shareholders
Capital structure 
and provision of 
adequate funding
Taking into account the fact that the 
Company listed on the London Stock 
Exchange only in July 2014 and is therefore 
at an early stage in its development as  
a public company, it is important that  
we continue to develop our governance 
policies and internal control procedures  
in order to ensure that our governance 
framework remains both relevant and 
focused towards achieving the Company’s 
strategic goals. 
A significant activity during the year has 
been in working towards achieving British 
Standards 10500 certification of anti-bribery 
management systems. The two-stage 
assessment process commenced in 
September 2015 and I am hopeful that  
we will achieve certification during the  
first half of calendar year 2016. 
In the period post financial year end, the 
Board and each of its three Committees 
have also carried out internal performance 
evaluations.
Our three sub-Committees of the Board 
have also been actively involved in the 
development of the Company’s governance 
arrangements. The Audit & Risk Committee 
has overseen the further development of 
our risk management processes, given its 
approval to the appointment of an external 
firm, B.M. Howarth Limited, to provide 
internal audit services, and has approved 
a revised Group policy in relation to the 
Treasury activities of the Group and a  
new policy regarding fees for non-audit 
services provided by the external auditor. 
The Remuneration Committee has overseen 
the development of appropriate incentive 
arrangements for the Company’s Executive 
Directors and senior management team 
and approval of the Company’s overall 
remuneration policy by shareholders at  
the 2015 AGM. 
The Nomination Committee has carried out 
a review of the Board’s composition and is 
also actively involved in the development  
of the Company’s diversity and succession 
planning policies.
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
27 November 2015
The Committees
Audit & Risk
page 50
Nomination
page 53
Remuneration
page 54
Audit & Risk  
Committee Chair
Dr Caroline Brown
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Members:
Name
Meetings 
attended
Dr Caroline Brown (Chair) 6/6
Michael Muller 6/6
Martin Bloom 6/6
Zarir J. Cama 6/6
Nomination  
Committee Chair
Martin Bloom
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Members:
Name
Meetings 
attended
Martin Bloom (Chair) 1/1
Michael Muller 1/1
Dr Caroline Brown 1/1
Zarir J. Cama 1/1
Paul Heiden 1/1
Flavio Guidotti 1/1
Remuneration  
Committee Chair
Zarir J. Cama
Independent  
Non-executive Director
Members:
Name
Meetings 
attended
Zarir J. Cama (Chair) 3/3
Michael Muller 3/3
Martin Bloom 3/3
Dr Caroline Brown 3/3
41 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors
The Board maintains a balance of Executive and  
Non-executive Directors that is effective for the 
promotion of corporate objectives, the protection  
of interests of all shareholders and stakeholders and  
for the governance of the Company as a whole.
Paul Heiden
 Non-executive Chairman
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
Michael Muller
Senior independent Non-executive Director
Date of appointment: 28 September 2012.
Skills and experience: Chartered accountant, with extensive 
experience at the most senior levels of industry within the UK,  
EU and US in a career which has spanned a range of engineering, 
manufacturing and technology companies.
Other current appointments: 
• Senior Independent Director of the London Stock Exchange Group plc.
• Senior Independent Director of Meggitt plc.
• Non-executive Chairman of A-Gas Limited.
Previous appointments: 
• Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc.
• Group Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc.
• Director of an Industrial Business at Rolls-Royce plc.
• Chairman of Talaris Topco plc (a company owned by the Carlisle Group).
• Non-executive Director of United Utilities, Bunzl plc and Filtrona plc.
Date of appointment: 20 January 2012.
Skills and experience: Board-level experience of listed and unlisted 
technology-rich companies, working in both the African and Asian 
markets during initial rapid growth phases. Chartered Accountant, 
having trained with Ernst & Young.
Other current appointments: 
• Non-executive Director of Jee Limited.
Previous appointments: 
• Chief Financial Officer of Etisalat Nigeria.
• Chief Financial Officer of THUS Group plc.
• Vice President Finance Japan and Asia, at Cable & Wireless.
Date of appointment: 1 September 2006.
Skills and experience: Management of a power systems business  
at Rolls-Royce plc, involving the introduction of new manufacturing 
technologies into the group and was responsible for defining and 
supervising the implementation of strategies for deriving additional 
value from the group’s technology assets. Holds a PhD from the 
University of Cambridge, a Masters of Business Administration from 
the University of Warwick and a BEng from Imperial College, London.
Other current appointments: 
• Governing Board member of the European Union’s Fuel Cell 
Hydrogen Joint Undertaking (FCH JU)  
and Treasurer of the FCH JU’s New Industrial Grouping.
• Member of the UK Government’s Green Economy Council,  
advising the Secretaries of State for DECC, DEFRA and BIS.
Previous appointments: 
• Vice President of Corporate Venturing at Rolls-Royce plc.
• University of Cambridge’s Alumni Advisory Board.
Date of appointment: 22 June 2012.
Skills and experience: Unique experience in building a partnership-
based business – thus enabling a broad ecosystem of thousands  
of companies that collaborate together to create innovative 
technology solutions. 
Other current appointments: 
• Chief Technology Officer of ARM Holdings plc.
Previous appointments: 
• A founding member of ARM Limited when it was created as a joint 
venture in 1990 between Apple and Acorn. Occupied the post of 
Marketing Director and changed roles in 1996 to become Executive 
VP of Business Development before becoming Chief Technology 
Officer in 2000.
42 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Date of appointment: 22 June 2012.
Skills and experience: Significant experience in building high-growth 
technology companies across a range of sectors. Strong connections 
in Asia, particularly Chinese businesses, institutions and Government 
organisations. As Chairman of RenoSola, Mr Bloom helped this 
company to list on AIM London and then the New York Stock 
Exchange, steering the company through rapid growth to become  
a $1.5 billion plus turnover business in just a few years.
Other current appointments: 
• Chairman of ReneSola Limited.
• Non-executive Chairman of Mayair Group Plc.
Previous appointments: 
• Starcom PLC.
Date of appointment: 29 November 2013.
1
Skills and experience: Fully involved in the inception of fuel cell 
technology at Loughborough University in the 1980s, thus brings  
a leading-edge technological expertise to the Board together with a 
thorough understanding of the Company and its R&T and engineering 
capabilities. BSc and a PhD in Chemistry from Loughborough University.
Other current appointments: 
• Director of Root Ten Limited.
Previous appointments: 
• Over a decade spent in senior management roles at the Group, acting at 
various times since 2005 both in the capacity of Chief Technology Officer 
and Chief Operating Officer. During his time as an Executive Director,  
Dr Mitchell was instrumental in driving forward the Group’s technology 
platform development, intellectual property value creation and key 
strategic engineering partnerships. 
• Co-founder of Advanced Power Sources Limited in 1995, a predecessor of 
the Group and member of the Company’s original start-up team in 2001. 
Date of appointment: 22 June 2012.
Skills and experience: High-level experience of the banking industry 
spanning a career of 44 years with particular knowledge of Asia and 
the Middle East.
Other current appointments: 
• Non-executive Director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA.
• Non-executive Director of Tata Capital Plc.
• Non-executive Director of Tata Capital Pte Ltd Singapore and  
two of its subsidiaries.
• Director of IL and FS Wind Power Management Pte Ltd  
and IL and FS Wind Power Trust Pte Ltd.
• Director of I.B. Tauris & Co Limited.
Previous appointments: 
• Group Chief Executive of HSBC India and Malaysia together with 
significant other positions held over the years in Asia, the Middle East 
and Europe, including Group General Manager of HSBC Holdings plc.
Date of appointment: 15 July 2005.
Skills and experience: An independent business consultant with over 
30 years’ business experience, working within the investment banking 
sector. CPA qualified and holds a degree in Business Administration 
from the Universidad Católica Argentina, Buenos Aires, where he  
has been Professor of General Management and Business Strategy  
for over 10 years.
Other current appointments: 
• Managing Partner of Explotación San Pedro S.H.
• Investment advisor to OSDIPP , a health insurance entity for 
employees of the private oil industry in Argentina.
Previous appointments: 
• Banque Européenne pour l’Amérique Latine (at the time a Fortis affiliate).
• Royal Bank of Canada.
• Business manager at ExxonMobil in Buenos Aires.
• Senior Advisor to the President of the Central Bank of Argentina.
Date of appointment: 2 May 2014.
Skills and experience: Experience in the senior management of 
early-stage companies and divisions of FTSE100 groups in the energy 
and technology sectors. First Class degree and PhD in Chemistry from 
the University of Cambridge and a Masters of Business Administration 
from the Cass Business School. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute  
of Management Accountants and is a Chartered Director.
Other current appointments: 
• Chief Financial Officer of The Penspen Group Limited.
• Non-executive Director of Hydrodec Group Plc.
Previous appointments: 
• Corporate finance adviser to governments and energy companies with 
banks including Merrill Lynch, UBS and HSBC.
• Non-executive Director of WSP Group plc.
• Non-executive Director of Bridge Energy ASA.
• Non-executive Director of Mirland Development Corporation plc.
Martin Bloom
Independent Non-executive Director
Dr Philip Mitchell
Non-executive Director
Zarir J. Cama
Independent Non-executive Director
Flavio Guidotti
Non-executive Director
Dr Caroline Brown
Independent Non-executive Director
1.  Dr Mitchell was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 29 November 2013. He was originally appointed an Executive Director on 19 September 2005, having also previously held 
various senior positions within the Company.
43 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Directors present their Annual Report and the 
audited Group financial statements for the year 
ended 30 September 2015.
Directors’ report
The corporate governance report on pages 
47 to 49, the Chief Financial Officer’s review 
on pages 32 to 34 and the corporate 
responsibility section of the Strategic report 
on pages 35 to 39, are each incorporated  
by reference into this Directors’ report.
Future business developments  
and outlook
The Board’s assessment and evaluation of 
future developments and the outlook for 
each of the three trading divisions is 
included within the Strategic report.
Directors
The names of the Directors of the Company 
as at the date of this report, together with 
their biographical details, are given on 
pages 42 and 43. There were no other  
persons who, at any date during the year 
ended 30 September 2015, were Directors 
of the Company. 
The statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the consolidated financial 
statements is set out on page 70. Details  
of the Directors’ service contracts are set 
out in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 54 to 69.
Appointment and removal of Directors
The Company’s articles of association 
(‘Articles’) give the Directors the power to 
appoint and replace other Directors. Under 
the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee, any appointment must be 
recommended by the Nomination 
Committee for approval by the Board.
Taking into account the best practice 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has determined that all 
Directors will stand for re-election on an 
annual basis. Therefore, all Directors will 
offer themselves for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the 
Company to be held on 26 February 2016.
In accordance with subscription 
agreements between the Company and 
each of Meditor European Master Fund 
Limited (‘Meditor’), Evolution Placements 
Corporation (‘EPC’) and Yukos International 
UK B.V. (‘Yukos BV’), each of Meditor, EPC 
and Yukos BV are entitled to appoint one 
person to be a Non-executive Director  
of the Company, subject to that person 
satisfying any relevant requirements of  
the London Stock Exchange and to the 
shareholder in question holding shares  
and/or current share options equal to  
10 per cent, or more, of the Company’s 
issued share capital on a fully diluted basis.  
Each of these shareholders is also entitled 
to remove any person it so appoints and, in 
the event that a person it appointed ceases 
to be a Director, to appoint another person 
in his or her place. If Meditor, EPC or Yukos 
BV ceases to hold 10 per cent or more of the 
Company’s issued share capital on a fully 
diluted basis, it will procure the resignation 
of any person it has appointed as a Director 
of the Company within a reasonable period 
of receipt of written notice from the 
Company requiring it to do so.
Flavio Guidotti was appointed to the  
Board as a Non-executive Director by  
EPC under the appointment rights stated 
above. Neither Meditor nor Yukos BV  
has appointed a Director to the Board  
(and Yukos BV does not currently hold  
the requisite number of shares in order  
to make an appointment).
Beneficial interests in significant 
contracts
None of the Directors has a material interest 
in any contract of significance to which  
the Company or any of its subsidiaries  
were party during the financial year ended 
30 September 2015.
Director authorities
The Directors are responsible for managing 
the business of the Company and exercise 
their powers in accordance with the 
Articles, directions given by shareholder 
resolution and any statutes and regulations.
Insurance and indemnities
The Directors have the benefit of an 
indemnity from the Company in respect  
of its liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office. This indemnity is provided under  
the Company’s Articles and satisfies the 
indemnity provisions of the Companies  
Act 2006 (the ‘Act’).
The Company has taken out an insurance 
policy in respect of those liabilities for 
which the Directors may not be 
indemnified. Neither the indemnity nor  
the insurance provides cover in the event 
that a Director is proved to have acted 
dishonestly or fraudulently.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at  
the Burleigh Court Hotel, off Ashby Road 
(A512), Loughborough University (West 
Park), Loughborough, LE1 1 3GR at 2.00pm 
on 26 February 2016. The notice convening 
the meeting is sent to shareholders as  
a separate enclosure at the same time  
as the Annual Report and includes full 
details of the resolutions to be proposed, 
together with explanatory notes in  
relation to such resolutions.
Capital structure
The table below shows details of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital, as at 
30 September 2014 and 30 September 2015.
30 September 
2014
30 September 
2015
Ordinary  
shares of 5 
pence each
188,112,899 188,325,451
44 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc The Company has a single class of share, 
being ordinary shares of 5 pence each; full 
details of the rights accorded to the holders 
of these ordinary shares are set out in the 
Articles. Holders of the ordinary shares also 
have the rights accorded to them under 
United Kingdom Company Law, including 
the right to receive the Company’s Annual 
Report and financial statements, attend and 
speak at general meetings, appoint proxies 
and exercise voting rights. Each ordinary 
share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the Company. All ordinary 
shares currently in issue are fully paid.
During the 2014/15 financial year, a total  
of 212,552 ordinary shares were issued and 
allotted in relation to the exercise of share 
options held through the 2001 and 2009 
Share Option Schemes.
Outstanding share options and awards
The Company operates the following share 
schemes: the Intelligent Energy Limited 
Share Option Scheme of 2001 (as amended 
on 1 August 2003), the Intelligent Energy 
Holdings plc Share Option Scheme of  
2009 and the 2013 Management Incentive 
Plan (‘MIP’). 
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Share 
Option Scheme of 2009 and the 
Intelligent Energy Limited Share  
Option Scheme of 2001 (as amended  
on 1 August 2003) 
Share options were granted to certain 
Directors, employees and former 
employees. All outstanding options are 
within their exercise period. Exercise 
periods vary with the last expiring on  
1 August 2017 . As at 30 September 2015,  
a total of 312,500 share options remained 
outstanding in relation to the 2001 and 
2009 Schemes.
2013 Management Incentive Plan
The Admission of the Company to the 
Official List and to trading on the London 
Stock Exchange was an Exit Event pursuant 
to the 2013 Management Incentive Plan and 
triggered the vesting of the awards to 31 
selected employees. The awards pursuant  
to the scheme vest in three equal tranches, 
the first of which vested at Admission and 
the remaining two vesting on the first  
and second anniversary of Admission, 
respectively. The majority of the awards 
consist of share awards with a small 
proportion of the awards being HMRC 
approved share options (with an option 
exercise price of 100 pence per award share). 
Shares in relation to tranche 2 of the MIP 
vested in July 2015, being one year after the 
anniversary of Admission. The Company will 
issue up to a maximum of 2,149,323 ordinary 
shares to relevant employees who were 
employed within the Group on 9 July 2015. 
Other than for certain specific exceptions, 
vesting of tranche 3 MIP shares requires 
continued employment within the Group 
through to 9 July 2016. The Company will 
be obliged to issue up to a maximum of 
2,149,323 ordinary shares in relation to 
tranche 3.
A maximum of 810,000 ordinary shares  
will also be issued as part of the MIP upon 
receipt of exercise notices in relation to 
approved share options.
The Board has no intention of making any 
further awards under the MIP .
Shareholder agreements and transfer 
restrictions
Prior to the Company’s Admission to  
the London Stock Exchange, each of the 
Company’s shareholders with holdings  
of 5 per cent or more of total issued share 
capital agreed to be bound by the terms  
of separate lock-up agreements. Such 
agreements were entered into with the 
Company by Meditor European Master 
Fund Limited, Evolution Placements 
Corporation, GIC Private Limited,  
Yukos BV and F&C Asset Management.  
The lock-up agreements (which, subject  
to certain limited restrictions, prevented  
the sale of 78 per cent of the shareholding  
held by the shareholder in question as at 
Admission) expired on 4 January 2015.
Each of the Company’s Directors with an 
interest in the Company’s ordinary shares 
immediately following Admission also 
agreed that, subject to certain customary 
exceptions, during the period from 
Admission until the publication of the 
Company’s consolidated annual results  
for the financial year ending 30 September 
2014, they would not, without the prior 
written consent of the Company’s joint 
bookrunners, offer, sell or contract to sell,  
or otherwise dispose of any ordinary shares, 
or enter into any transaction with the same 
economic effect as any of the foregoing. 
Those restrictions ceased to be of effect  
on 1 December 2014, being the date on 
which the Company announced its financial 
results for the year ending 30 September 2014.
From time to time, the Company will enter 
into confidentiality arrangements with 
proposed counterparties to potential 
significant transactions, pursuant to which 
such counterparties (who may from time  
to time include existing shareholders in  
the Company) will agree not to trade in  
the Company’s shares pending the 
announcement (or discontinuance) of  
that transaction.
With the exception of the above, there  
are no specific restrictions on the size of  
a holding or the transfer of ordinary shares 
and the Directors are not aware of any  
other agreements between holders of the 
Company’s ordinary shares that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities  
or on voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 30 September 2015 and 26 November 2015 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document), the Company 
has been advised of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, as detailed in the table below.
Shareholder
Holding as at
30 September 2015 %
Holding as at 
26 November 2015 %
Meditor Capital Management 27,408,010 14.55 27,408,010 14.55
GIC Private Limited 21,784,928 11.57 21,784,928 11.57
Evolution Placements Corporation 21,390,096 11.36 21,390,096 11.36
Yukos International UK B.V. 11,995,100 6.37 11,995,100 6.37
Royalton Percy LLC 6,900,000 3.66 6,900,000 3.66
DNB Asset Management 6,039,721 3.21 6,039,721 3.21
45 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ report continued
Dividend policy
The Company is primarily seeking to 
achieve capital growth for its shareholders 
and it is the Board’s intention during  
the current phase of the Company’s 
development to retain any distributable 
profits. Accordingly, the Directors do  
not anticipate paying a dividend in the 
foreseeable future. However, if the 
Company were to receive significant, 
upfront payments related to the sale of 
access to IP from its customers and partners 
which were in excess of the projected 
capital requirements of the Group at such 
time, the Board would consider whether  
it would be appropriate to recommend  
a special dividend or another return of 
value to shareholders. In the long term,  
the Directors intend to follow a progressive 
dividend policy in respect of excess profits 
over and above what is required to fund  
the development of the Group.
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
The Companies Act 2006 and the 
Company’s Articles permit shareholders  
to give authority to the Company to 
purchase its own shares. The Company  
has not sought such authority from 
shareholders and therefore no shares have 
been purchased by the Company during 
the financial year ended 30 September 
2015. However, following the Company’s 
Admission to the London Stock Exchange 
(and in common with the practice of many 
listed companies) the Directors will now  
be seeking to gain shareholder authority  
to purchase up to 10 per cent of the 
Company’s issued share capital at the 
forthcoming AGM on 26 February 2016.  
If approved, the authority shall, unless 
varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the 
end of the Company’s next AGM after the 
resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close 
of business on 26 May 2017 . The Directors 
have no present intention of exercising  
all or any of the powers conferred by that 
authority (assuming it is granted) and  
would only exercise those powers if it is  
in the interests of shareholders generally. 
Articles of association
The Company’s Articles were amended 
pursuant to a special resolution passed at  
a general meeting of the Company held on 
30 May 2014. These amended Articles came 
into effect upon Admission on 9 July 2014. 
No further amendments have been made 
to the Company’s Articles since this date.
Financial instruments
Information about the use of financial 
instruments by the Company and its 
subsidiaries is given in note 26 to the 
financial statements.
Research and development activities
Further information with regard to the 
research and development activities of the 
Company during the 2014/15 financial year 
can be found within the IP and Technology 
section of the Strategic report on pages  
12 and 13.
Employees
Further details in relation to employment 
policies, employee involvement, 
consultation and development, together 
with some of the human resource 
improvement initiatives implemented 
during the financial year ended 30 
September 2015 are shown on page 36  
of the corporate responsibility section  
of the Strategic report.
Greenhouse gas reporting
The Directors are required to report  
on greenhouse gas emissions data in 
accordance with the UK mandatory 
reporting requirements as set out under  
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Directors’ reports) Regulations 2013.  
Further details are shown on page 39  
of the corporate responsibility section  
of the Strategic report.
Political donations
The Company made no political  
donations during the financial year  
ended 30 September 2015 (2014: nil).
Going concern
Going concern is addressed in the Chief 
Financial Officer’s review on page 34.
International Financial Reporting 
Standards
The financial statements included within 
the Company’s Annual Report have been 
prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union.
Independent auditor
Each Director at the date of approval  
of this Annual Report and financial 
statements confirms that, so far as they  
are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware, and they have taken  
all steps that they ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should  
be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s418 of the Companies  
Act 2006.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness  
to continue in office as auditor and a 
resolution to reappoint it will be  
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf by:
Nicholas Heard
Company Secretary
27 November 2015
46 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Corporate governance report
Governance responsibilities of the Board
Duties and responsibilities of the Board  
are confirmed via a schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision. This schedule was 
adopted by the Board towards the end  
of last year and is based on best practice 
corporate governance procedures. Such 
matters reserved for the Board include, 
amongst other things, responsibility for  
the overall leadership and strategic aims 
and objectives of the Company, capital 
structure, financial reporting, internal 
controls, approval of material contracts  
and major investments, Board membership 
and corporate governance. 
Board composition
The Board maintains a balance of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors that is 
effective for the promotion of corporate 
objectives, the protection of the interests  
of all shareholders and stakeholders and for 
the governance of the Company as a whole. 
At the end of the financial year to 30 
September 2015, the Board comprised  
a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and six Non-executive Directors 
(four of which are classed as independent  
in accordance with the provisions of the UK 
Code). The Chairman is presumed under the 
UK Code not to be independent. Further 
information with regard to the composition 
of the Board can be seen on page 40.
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors have a range 
of experience, skills and backgrounds  
which enable them to make a valuable 
contribution to the Company and provide 
independent judgement and constructive 
challenge to the Board. They have a key  
role to play in setting strategy, scrutinising 
the performance of management in 
meeting agreed goals and objectives and 
monitoring the reporting of performance. 
They satisfy themselves on the integrity  
of financial information and that financial 
controls and systems of risk management 
are robust. They are responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of 
remuneration of Executive Directors and 
have a prime role to play in appointing  
and, where necessary, removing Executive 
Directors, and in succession planning.
Non-executive Director independence
Consideration has been given to the 
independence of the Company’s Non-
executive Directors. The Board considers 
that four of the Non-executive Directors  
are independent, being Martin Bloom, Dr 
Caroline Brown, Zarir J. Cama and Michael 
Muller. The remaining two Non-executive 
Directors, being Flavio Guidotti and Dr 
Philip Mitchell, are not considered to be 
independent (when considered under  
the best practice corporate governance 
provisions of the UK Code). 
Flavio Guidotti was appointed as a  
Non-executive Director of the Company  
in 2005 in accordance with the terms of  
a subscription agreement between the 
Company and one of its largest shareholders, 
Evolution Placements Corporation (‘EPC’) 
and therefore cannot be classed as 
independent under the provisions of the  
UK Code. This agreement entitles EPC to 
appoint one person to be a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, subject to that 
person satisfying any relevant requirements 
of the London Stock Exchange and to  
EPC holding shares and/or current share 
options equal to 10 per cent, or more,  
of the Company’s issued share capital  
on a fully diluted basis.
Dr Philip Mitchell was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director in November 201 3, 
having spent more than 10 years in various 
senior management roles within the Group. 
During this time, Dr Mitchell has acted in the 
capacity of Chief Technology Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer and has been instrumental 
in driving forward the Company’s technology 
platform development, intellectual property 
value creation and key strategic engineering  
and commercial partnerships. Due to his  
prior roles and length of time working  
within the Company he cannot be classed  
as independent under the provisions of the  
UK Code.
The role of the Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities  
at the head of the Company between the 
running of the Board and the executive 
responsibilities for the running of the 
Company’s business. No one individual  
has unfettered decision making powers. 
The division of responsibilities between  
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
is set out in writing and was recently  
agreed by the Board.
Paul Heiden, as Chairman, is responsible  
for leading and managing the Board and 
ensuring it operates effectively. He promotes 
a culture of openness, encouraging all Board 
members to involve themselves in debate 
and apply sufficient challenge regarding 
major proposals, thus contributing to  
an effective decision-making process.  
He also fosters relationships between the 
Non-executive Directors and the Executive 
Directors. He ensures that shareholder  
views are discussed at Board level and  
that communication with shareholders  
and other stakeholders is effective.
Dr Henri Winand, as Chief Executive Officer, 
is responsible for running the Company’s 
business in close collaboration with, and 
support of, the Group Executive team. His 
role includes providing leadership to the  
Group Executive, developing proposals  
and formulating strategy for the Board  
to consider in relation to matters reserved  
for its judgement and implementing  
any Board approved actions.
The role of the Senior independent 
Non-executive Director
Michael Muller was appointed as Senior 
independent Non-executive Director  
in January 2014. The role of the Senior 
The Non-executive Directors have a range of 
experience, skills and backgrounds which enable 
them to make a valuable contribution to the 
Company and provide independent judgement 
and constructive challenge to the Board. 
47 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements independent Non-executive Director is to 
provide a sounding board for the Chairman, 
to serve as a focal point to assist in resolving 
shareholder concerns which have not been 
resolved by the Chairman or Chief Executive 
Officer, or in circumstances where a 
shareholder considers that communication 
with any of these Directors would be 
inappropriate. The Senior independent 
Non-executive Director also oversees the 
assessment of the effectiveness of the 
Chairman’s performance, and is available  
for the other Non-executive Directors to 
raise any issues or concerns.
During the year, the Non-executive Directors, 
led by Michael Muller as the Senior 
Independent Director, met without the 
Chairman present to appraise his performance.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Chairman and the Non-executive 
Directors are permitted to serve as Directors 
of non-group companies provided it does 
not impinge upon their required time 
commitment to the Company. The Directors 
are required to declare any directorships  
for non-group companies or other 
appointments which could give rise to 
actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The Directors have a duty to avoid a direct  
or indirect interest which conflicts, or may 
possibly conflict, with the interests of the 
Company, unless that conflict has been 
approved by the Board. The articles of 
association of the Company give the Directors 
power to approve conflicts of interest, subject 
to certain conditions, such as, the meeting 
being quorate without the Director in 
question participating and/or that the relevant 
Director does not participate in the vote. No 
conflicts of interests were declared during the 
financial year ended 30 September 201 5.
Annual re-election of Directors
In accordance with best practice corporate 
governance policies, the Board has decided 
that all Directors will stand for re-election at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’) of the Company, due to be held on 
26 February 2016.
The Chairman is of the opinion that each 
Director’s performance continues to be 
effective and that they demonstrate 
commitment to the role; as such the Chairman 
recommends a vote in favour of each of the 
resolutions to be put forward at the AGM in 
relation to the re-election of a Director.
Board support
The Company Secretary, in accordance  
with guidance from the Chairman, ensures 
that the Board and each of its Committees 
receive the necessary information to operate 
efficiently. All Directors have access to the 
services of the Company Secretary, who  
is responsible to the Board for ensuring  
that Board procedures are followed and  
that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with. The Company Secretary  
is also responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all matters of 
governance and best practice. The Company 
Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit 
& Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee 
and the Nomination Committee.
The Directors may take independent 
professional advice on any matter at  
the Company’s expense, if they deem  
it necessary, in order to carry out their 
responsibilities effectively.
Board performance evaluation
The effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees is vital to the success of the 
Company. A formal internal performance 
evaluation process was carried out in the 
period post financial year end in accordance 
with best practice corporate governance 
principles to help assess both Board and 
Committee performance. This evaluation 
process, which was the first one to be 
carried out by the Board, was completed  
via the use of online questionnaires which 
were completed anonymously by each 
Director. The results of each evaluation will 
now be discussed by the Board as a whole 
and appropriate follow-up actions agreed. 
Feedback from the evaluations was positive 
and the Board remains satisfied that 
progress continues to be made as the 
Company expands. With the exception of 
Dr Caroline Brown’s appointment in May 
2014 and Dr Philip Mitchell’s in November 
2013, the structure of the Board has 
remained consistent since 2012; respect 
between members remains high, and there 
is a spirit of constructive challenge.
As part of the Board’s annual meeting 
calendar, and in accordance with best practice 
corporate governance principles, time is set 
aside for the Chairman to hold meetings with 
the Non-executive Directors, without the 
Executive Directors being present and for the 
Attendance of Directors at meetings
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit & Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and 
Nomination Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2015.
Board
1
Audit & Risk Committee
2
Remuneration Committee
1, 2
Nomination Committee
1, 2
Number eligible 
to attend
Number 
attended
Number eligible 
to attend
Number 
attended
Number eligible 
to attend
Number 
attended
Number eligible 
to attend
Number 
attended
Paul Heiden 10 10 – – – – 1 1
Dr Henri Winand 10 10 – – – – – –
John Maguire 10 10 – – – – – –
Michael Muller 10 10 6 6 3 3 1 1
Martin Bloom 10 10 6 6 3 3 1 1
Zarir J. Cama 10 9 6 6 3 3 1 1
Dr Caroline Brown 10 10 6 6 3 3 1 1
Flavio Guidotti 10 10 – – – – 1 1
Dr Philip Mitchell 10 10 – – – – – –
1.  In addition, ad hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by at least a quorum of Directors/Committee members and are convened to deal with specific items of 
business that are not pre-scheduled into the annual Board and Committee meeting calendar.
2.  Other Directors, who are not members of the relevant Committee, are invited to attend by invitation depending on the nature of the business being discussed.
Corporate governance report continued
48 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Non-executive Directors (led by Michael 
Muller, the Board’s Senior independent 
Non-executive Director) to meet without  
the Chairman present, at least annually.
Under the relevant terms of reference for 
the Committees of the Board, the Audit & 
Risk Committee is required to meet at least 
four times per year, the Remuneration 
Committee two times and the Nomination 
Committee once.
Shareholder engagement 
The Board values the views of the 
Company’s shareholders and recognises 
their interest, as owners of the business,  
in strategy and performance, Board 
membership and quality of management.
Following the Company’s listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in July 2014, the 
Board and management team actively seek 
regular dialogue with the market. To date, 
this has been achieved through a variety  
of formats including one-to-one and group 
meetings, speaker slots at conferences, 
calls, emails and visits to the Company’s 
head office in Loughborough and to its 
Indian operations in Bangalore.
In April 2015, arrangements were made  
to take a group of five analysts and six 
investors to visit the Company’s DP&G 
operations in Bangalore, India. This 
included a site visit to a telecom tower 
powered by Intelligent Energy, together 
with a water purification facility (also 
powered by Intelligent Energy), which  
is providing clean water to the local 
community. The two-day visit included 
presentations from the Managing Director 
of the Company’s DP&G division and the 
Chief Executive Officer of GTIL, Charudatta 
Naik. Key management personnel were 
present to answer questions from the 
audience. The event was well-received by all 
those attending and allowed them to gain a 
greater appreciation for the DP&G business 
operations in India and the strength 
in-depth of the Indian management team.
In addition to the Indian roadshow, numerous 
site visits have also been arranged on a 
regular basis to the Group’s headquarters  
in Loughborough, UK, in order to improve 
understanding around the Company’s core 
technology and business strategy.
During the year, the Company appointed 
two new stockbrokers, being UBS and 
Stiefel, in order to facilitate an expansion  
of the existing shareholder base. Jefferies, 
the investment bank, have also recently 
been appointed to assist the Company in 
realising some of the value in aspects of its 
DP&G Indian operations. A new full-time 
Head of Investor Relations was also 
appointed in March 2015.
The Board receives regular updates on market 
perceptions from key employees and external 
advisers who have regular shareholder 
interaction during the course of the year, 
including the Head of Investor Relations, 
Directors and the Company’s stockbrokers. 
The Chairman ensures that shareholder views 
are discussed at Board meetings and that 
communication with shareholders and other 
stakeholders is effective. 
The Company’s AGM is used to formally 
communicate with investors and 
documents are sent to shareholders at  
least 20 working days before the meeting,  
in accordance with best practice corporate 
governance guidelines. The Chief Executive 
Officer makes a presentation at this meeting 
with regard to the Company’s progress 
during the last year. The Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chairs of each 
Board Committee are also available to 
answer relevant questions. Separate 
resolutions are proposed on each 
substantial issue so that they can be given 
proper consideration. Details of all proxy 
votes lodged on all resolutions prior to the 
meeting are published on the Company’s 
website as soon as possible after the AGM.
In addition to the communication  
channels mentioned above, other formal 
communication channels include the 
Annual Report and financial statements, 
regulatory news announcements and press 
releases in response to events or routine 
reporting obligations. This is further 
supported by the provision of information 
to shareholders on the Company’s website, 
in particular the Investors section at  
www.intelligent-energy.com. All 
information reported to the market via a 
regulatory information service also appears 
on the Company’s website as soon as is 
practicable. The Company continually 
endeavours to improve its communications 
with shareholders, including online – during 
the year it implemented changes to the 
Investor Relations section of the website, 
including improved functionality and 
disclosure of information. A ‘direct’ Investor 
Relations email address is also shown on the 
Company’s website, for shareholders who 
may have specific investor related queries.
The Company maintains ongoing relations 
with analysts and investors through phone 
calls, investor alerts issued by email and 
meetings. Shareholder meetings are 
conducted by at least one of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Director of Corporate Finance or 
Head of Investor Relations; these meetings 
have occurred in a number of different 
locations around the world to reflect the 
global nature of the Company’s shareholder 
base. During the year, senior management 
has travelled to meet investors in the UK, 
India, USA, Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Internal control and risk management
Further details regarding internal control 
and the risk management framework within  
the Company are detailed on pages 51 and 
52 of the Audit & Risk Committee report 
and the introduction to risk management 
on pages 26 and 27 . The Company’s 
principal risks and uncertainties are detailed 
on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic report.
Anti-bribery & corruption
The Company takes very seriously its 
responsibilities under applicable anti-
bribery and corruption legislation including 
the UK’s Bribery Act 2010 and has in  
place appropriate measures to ensure 
compliance. The Company’s anti-bribery 
and corruption policy was refreshed  
during 2014; to accompany this policy all 
employees (whether based in the UK or 
overseas) were required to complete online 
training, designed to clearly communicate 
employee responsibilities and likely 
consequences of non-compliance. All 
employees are also required to undertake 
regular refresher courses. As part of the 
induction process, all new UK and overseas 
employees are required to take part  
in this online training and confirm their 
understanding of the policy in force. 
To further develop the Company’s anti-
bribery and corruption stance, efforts are 
currently being made to achieve British 
Standards 10500 certification; this will 
provide an enhanced anti-bribery 
management system framework for  
the business to work to, and help to 
strengthen existing internal controls.  
It is anticipated that the Company will 
achieve this certification during the first  
half of calendar year 2016.
During early 2015, the Company introduced 
a new independent and externally 
facilitated whistleblowing hotline, details  
of which were made available to all 
employees. The Company Secretary acts as 
the Company’s whistleblowing officer and 
any matters raised via this new hotline are 
thoroughly investigated; regular reporting 
updates are also provided to the Audit & 
Risk Committee. 
49 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Audit & Risk Committee plays a central role 
in the review of Intelligent Energy’s financial 
reporting and internal control processes.
Audit & Risk Committee report
Purpose and aim
The Audit & Risk Committee (‘Committee’)  
is responsible for reviewing a wide range of 
matters and their key responsibilities are listed 
below. The Board of Directors has delegated  
to the Committee responsibility for overseeing 
the financial reporting, internal control and  
risk management frameworks within the 
Company. This Committee is also responsible 
for making recommendations to the Board  
in relation to the appointment of both the 
Company’s external and internal auditors.
Committee meetings
All members of the Committee are 
independent Non-executive Directors who are 
free from any relationships or circumstances 
which are likely to affect, or could appear to 
affect, the Committee members’ judgement.
Dr Henri Winand (Chief Executive Officer), 
John Maguire (Chief Financial Officer),  
other senior employees of the Group and 
representatives of both the external and 
internal auditors are also invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee where this is 
considered appropriate. Nicholas Heard,  
the Company Secretary, is Secretary to the 
Committee. Other members of the Board also 
attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee meets as appropriate but at 
least four times per year. During the financial 
year ended 30 September 201 5, the Committee 
met six times. Details of Director attendance at 
Committee meetings held during the financial 
year ended 30 September 201 5 are shown 
above and can also be found on page 48 of the 
corporate governance report.
Dr Caroline Brown
Audit & Risk Committee Chair, Independent Non-executive Director
Committee members
Name  Meetings attended
Dr Caroline Brown (Chair)  6/6
Michael Muller  6/6
Martin Bloom 6/6
Zarir J. Cama 6/6
 
Responsibilities of the Committee
Full details of the Committee’s roles and 
responsibilities are set out in its terms of 
reference, which were agreed by the Board last 
year. These are available on the Company’s 
website at www.intelligent-energy.com, or 
from the Company Secretary at the Registered 
Office. The Committee will ensure that it 
regularly reviews the terms of reference by 
which it operates.
The key responsibilities of the Committee 
are listed below:
• Monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company, reviewing all 
significant financial reporting issues and  
all judgements which they contain. This 
includes the annual and half-yearly financial 
statements, trading/business updates and 
any other formal announcement relating  
to the Company’s financial performance
• The categorisation, monitoring and overall 
effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
assessment and internal control processes
• Monitor and review the effectiveness  
of the Company’s internal audit function 
in the context of the overall risk 
management systems
• Review and assess the annual internal 
audit programme
• Consider and make recommendations  
to the Board, to be put to shareholders for 
approval at the Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’), in relation to the appointment, 
re-appointment or removal of the 
Company’s external auditor
• Oversee the relationship with the external 
auditor including recommendations  
on their remuneration, approval of their 
terms of engagement and assessing 
annually their independence and objectivity
• Review and approve the annual external 
audit plan and ensure that it is consistent 
with the scope of the audit engagement
• Review the adequacy and security of the 
Company’s arrangements for its employees 
and contractors to raise concerns in 
confidence about possible wrongdoing  
in financial reporting or other matters.  
The Committee is responsible for regularly 
reviewing any matters that have been  
raised and for ensuring that arrangements 
are in place to allow for proportionate  
and independent investigation, as well  
as appropriate follow up action
• Report to the Board on how it has 
discharged its responsibilities
Committee activities during the year
During the financial year ended 30 September 
2015, the key items for discussion at 
Committee meetings were as follows:
• Review of the draft full and half-year 
financial statements, the Annual Report 
and the draft preliminary year-end/
half-year results announcements
• The independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness of the external auditor
• Scope and work of the full and half-year 
external audit programmes
• Consideration of the external auditor 
engagement letter and audit fees
• The appropriateness of the non-audit 
services provided by the external auditor 
and the impact of such services on their 
independence
• Scope and work of the internal audit 
programme and review of internal audit 
reports produced by B.M. Howarth, the 
external audit firm appointed by the Company 
to carry out the internal audit function
• Keeping abreast of progress being made  
in the development of risk management 
policies within the business, together  
with regular reviews of the risk register  
and other internal control mechanisms
• Review of matters raised under the 
Company’s whistleblowing policy and 
agreement of appropriate actions/outcomes
• Review and approval of the Group’s annual 
insurance renewal programme
• Accounting and regulatory updates, to 
include corporate governance matters
50 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Primary areas of judgement in relation to the Committee
In order to discharge its responsibilities to consider accounting and financial reporting integrity, the Committee carefully considers the  
key judgements applied in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The Committee’s review included consideration of the 
following key accounting judgements in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2015:
Deferred tax assets The Company has unused tax losses and unused tax credits brought forward; as permitted 
under IAS 12 these are shown in the financial statements as a deferred tax asset. The 
Company has only recognised a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that 
future, taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and unused tax 
credits can be utilised. 
Through a review of independent analysis and internal forecasts, the Committee is satisfied 
that the Company will generate sufficient profits in order for the deferred tax asset to be fully 
utilised against UK-based profits and therefore the asset should be fully recognised.
Therefore, the Group continues to recognise a deferred tax asset of £21.9 million  
(2014: £16.3 million) in respect of UK tax losses.
Valuation of goodwill and  
impairment testing
The value of goodwill is carried at cost in the statement of financial position and is £5.9m  
as at 30 September 2015. The review of goodwill is based on value in use calculations, 
using cash flow projections prepared by the business. Goodwill is assigned to a cash 
generating unit as appropriate and together with the other assets of that cash generating 
unit are tested for impairment, comparing their carrying value against the forecast value  
in use on a net present value basis. 
Having considered the assessment of the value in use calculations for goodwill and other 
asset classes, taking into account a range of sources of information, as well as sensitivities  
to the cashflow assumptions and the impact they may have, the Committee concluded 
that the carrying value of goodwill and other assets was fairly stated. 
Going concern The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development and position, are reviewed by the Committee at each reporting period in 
order to obtain assurance that the financial statements of the Company should be 
prepared on a going-concern basis.
While the cash balance at the year end of £24.2m is not sufficient to support the Company 
at current cash consumption for the foreseeable future, the Board have sufficient reason  
to believe that additional funding will be forthcoming within the required timeframe to 
support the planned activities of the business. As a fall-back, the Board retain the discretion 
to resize the business to meet contractual commitments where appropriate and it is on this 
basis that the Directors form their opinion that the Company remains a going concern.
In the period post year end, an internal performance evaluation has been carried out by the Committee. Further details regarding the 
purpose and process used for this evaluation (and the wider Board) can be seen on page 48 of the corporate governance report. 
Financial reporting
The review of financial reporting and performance of the external auditor is a primary role of the Committee, as is reporting to the Board on  
the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters:
• The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices
• The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting 
requirements
• Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or discussions held with the external auditors
• Recommendation to the Board on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy
Internal control and risk management
The Committee has overall responsibility for frameworks in relation to internal control and risk management within the business, and for 
reviewing the effectiveness of such frameworks on a regular basis. Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not eliminate risk.
51 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group Executive management team has 
been delegated day-to-day responsibilities for 
maintaining adequate internal control and risk 
management systems. The Company has in 
place systems and procedures for exercising 
control and managing risk, which include  
the following:
• The formulation and deployment of Company 
accounting policies and procedures
• Policies governing the maintenance of 
accounting records, transaction reporting 
and key financial control procedures
• The safeguarding of assets from 
inappropriate use or from loss and fraud, 
and ensuring that liabilities are identified 
and managed
• Regular operational review meetings 
which include, as necessary, reviews  
of internal financial reporting issues  
and financial control monitoring
• Ongoing training and development of 
appropriately qualified and experienced 
financial reporting personnel
• The identification, evaluation, analysis, 
mitigation and review of risks via the 
introduction of appropriate risk 
management policies and risk registers
A review of risk management processes 
took place towards the end of 2014 and 
resulted in the appointment of a new Head 
of Risk. During the past year, good progress 
has been made in further developing the 
Company’s risk management systems  
and embedding these within the business.  
This is being carried out via the introduction 
of detailed risk registers, to include risk 
scoring and mitigation activities. The 
Committee carries out regular reviews  
of the Company’s risk registers, processes 
and mitigation activities.
The Committee has considered recent 
changes made to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘UK Code’) in relation  
to risk management, which took effect for 
financial reporting years beginning on or 
after 1 October 2014. Whilst the Company 
considers the principles of the UK Code, 
where possible, when setting its 
governance policies, the decision was  
taken by the Committee not to adopt these 
new risk management principles for the 
2014/15 financial reporting year. Taking  
into account the Company’s standard  
listed status, this decision was made based 
on the fact that the Company is still in the 
process of developing and embedding  
its core risk management processes,  
which need to be fully developed before 
adding additional layers of complexity.  
The Committee will continue to monitor 
progress in relation to risk management  
in order that these new UK Code principles 
can gradually be adopted over a period  
of time.
At its meeting in September 2015, the 
Committee approved a revised Treasury 
policy. All subsidiaries within the Group  
are required to comply with the new policy; 
B.M. Howarth Limited will also carry out  
an internal audit of this area of the business  
as part of their audit programme for 2016,  
in order to ensure that the revised policies 
and procedures have been implemented.
Internal audit
Towards the end of 2014, the Board (on  
the recommendation of the Committee) 
selected an external firm to provide internal 
audit services following the completion  
of a formal tender process; B.M. Howarth 
Limited were subsequently appointed at 
the end of November 2014 and an internal 
audit programme was agreed with the 
Committee in January 2015.
During the course of the past year, internal 
audits have been carried out within various 
areas of the business; this included 
purchasing and procurement procedures, 
inventory and stocktake procedures, risk 
register reviews, a balance sheet review and 
a pre-implementation review of the new IFS 
financial management systems (which were 
introduced within the business during July 
2015). The internal auditor presented the 
results of their audits at the Committee 
meeting held in September 2015. Going 
forward, the internal auditor will present  
the results of their audit work twice per year.
The internal audit programme for the 
coming year is likely to focus on areas of  
the business that have not previously been 
audited and based on risk assessments, 
together with a follow-up review of matters 
arising from previous audits.
External auditor
KPMG LLP has been the Company’s external 
auditor since September 2012. Due to  
the retirement of the previous lead audit 
partner from KPMG LLP , a new audit partner 
took on responsibility for the Company’s 
audit work during 2015. In accordance  
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors, the lead audit 
partner will be rotated every five years.
The Committee considers the cost-
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of 
the external auditor on a regular basis, agrees 
their levels of remuneration and reviews the 
extent of non-audit services they provide.
Committee meetings are attended by the 
external auditor at the invitation of the 
Committee Chair in order to ensure full 
communication of matters relating to the 
audit, including adequacy of controls and 
any material judgement areas.
The performance of the external auditor  
is reviewed on an annual basis by the 
Committee, including the level of service 
provided. Based on this review, the 
Committee has concluded that, at the 
present time the external auditor is 
operating effectively and that KPMG LLP 
continues to prove effective in this  
role. Therefore, a resolution proposing  
the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as  
the Company’s external auditor will be 
proposed at the AGM, together with  
a further resolution to grant the Board 
authority to approve their remuneration.
Non-audit services
The Committee has recently agreed a 
formal policy regarding the appointment  
of the external auditor for the supply  
of non-audit services, a copy of which  
is available on the Company’s website,  
at www.intelligent-energy.com. 
The policy outlines which non-audit 
services are to be pre-approved (being 
those which are of a routine nature, with a 
fee that is not significant in the context of 
the audit or audit-related services), which 
services require the prior approval of the 
Committee and which services the auditor 
is excluded from providing.
During the year ended 30 September 2015, 
the main non-audit services provided  
by the external auditor were in relation  
to assurance linked to the implementation  
of the Company’s new IFS financial 
management systems and corporate 
finance activities. A breakdown of the fees 
earned by the external auditor for audit and 
non-audit services can be found in note 9  
to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Committee does not consider that the 
non-audit services provided in the period 
give rise to any conflict of interest or breach 
of independence of the external auditor.
Dr Caroline Brown
Audit & Risk Committee Chair, 
Independent Non-executive Director
27 November 2015
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
52 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc The Nomination Committee reviews the 
structure, size and composition of the Board 
and also plays a key role in the appointment 
of new Board members.
Nomination Committee report
Purpose and aim
The Nomination Committee (‘Committee’) 
has overall responsibility for ensuring that 
the Board and its Committees have the 
appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
Company to enable them to discharge  
their respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively. It is also responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on all new 
appointments to the Board. The Committee’s 
key responsibilities are shown below.
Committee meetings
In accordance with the Committee’s terms of 
reference, the majority of the members of the 
Committee are independent Non-executive 
Directors of the Company. Dr Henri Winand 
(Chief Executive Officer) and external advisers 
are also invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee where this is considered 
appropriate. Nicholas Heard, the Company 
Secretary, is Secretary to the Committee.
In accordance with the terms of reference for 
the Committee, a quorum is two members.  
The Committee meets as appropriate, but at 
least once per year. During the financial year 
ended 30 September 201 5, the Committee held 
one pre-scheduled meeting in accordance with 
the Board and Committee meeting calendar. 
Martin Bloom
Nomination Committee Chair, Independent Non-executive Director
Committee members
Name  Meetings attended
1
Martin Bloom (Chair)  1/1
Michael Muller 1/1
Dr Caroline Brown  1/1
Zarir J. Cama 1/1
Paul Heiden 1/1
Flavio Guidotti 1/1
1.  Additional ad hoc meetings were also held during 
the course of the year, which were not pre-scheduled 
into the annual Board and Committee meeting 
calendar, to discuss specific matters of business.
The Committee also held additional  
meetings during the year on an ad hoc  
basis to discuss specific matters of business.  
Details of Directors’ attendance at Committee 
meetings held during the financial year ended 
30 September 201 5 are shown above and can 
also be found on page 48 of the corporate 
governance report. 
Responsibilities of the Committee
Full details of the Committee’s roles and 
responsibilities are set out in its terms of 
reference, which were agreed by the Board 
last year. These are available on the Company’s 
website at www.intelligent-energy.com, 
or from the Company Secretary at the 
Registered Office. The key responsibilities  
of the Committee are listed below:
• Regularly review the structure, size  
and composition (including the required 
skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity) of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any changes
• Give full consideration to succession 
planning regarding the Board, taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities 
facing the Company and the skills and 
expertise that will be needed in the  
future to address these
• Keep under review the Executive and 
Non-executive leadership needs of the 
Company with a view to ensuring the 
continued ability of the organisation to 
compete effectively in the marketplace
• Identifying and nominating for the 
approval of the Board candidates to  
fill Board vacancies in relation to both 
Executive Director and Non-executive 
Director roles, as and when they arise
• Before an appointment is made by the Board, 
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity of the Board, and, in 
light of the results of such evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities 
required for a particular appointment 
Committee activities during the year
During the financial year ended 30 
September 2015, the key items for discussion 
at both the scheduled and ad hoc 
Committee meetings were as follows:
• Review of Non-executive Director 
independence
• Review of the balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge on the Board and each of 
its three Committees
• Consideration of diversity at both a Board 
level and across the wider employee base 
of the Group
• Development of a policy to describe the 
clear distinction between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer
• Consideration of succession planning  
in relation to both Executive Directors  
and Non-executive Directors
• Recommendation to the Board that Paul 
Heiden (Non-executive Chairman), Michael 
Muller (Independent Non-executive 
Director), Martin Bloom (Independent 
Non-executive Director) and Zarir J. Cama 
(Independent Non-executive Director) be 
re-appointed to the Board for a second term 
of three years, following the expiry of the 
relevant letters of appointment for their  
first three-year terms. Copies of all Non-
executive Director letters of appointment 
can be found on the Company’s website at  
www.intelligent-energy.com.
In the period post year end, an internal 
performance evaluation has been carried 
out by the Committee. Further details 
regarding the purpose of and process used 
for this evaluation (and the wider Board) 
can be seen on page 48 of the corporate 
governance report.
Martin Bloom
Nomination Committee Chair, 
Independent Non-executive Director 
27 November 2015
53 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board has delegated to the Remuneration 
Committee responsibility for overseeing the 
remuneration of the Company’s Executive 
Directors and other senior employees.
Directors’ remuneration report
Purpose and aim
The Remuneration Committee 
(‘Committee’) has overall responsibility for 
the remuneration policy for all Executive 
Directors and the Company’s Chairman.  
It is also responsible for recommending  
and monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management. The 
Committee ensures that the remuneration 
policy is aligned to the Company’s  
long-term strategic goals. Additionally,  
it ensures that the remuneration policy 
attracts, retains and motivates Executive 
Directors and senior management of the 
quality required to run the Company 
successfully, without paying more than  
is necessary, having regard for the views  
of shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Zarir J. Cama
Remuneration Committee Chair, Independent Non-executive Director
Committee members
Name  Meetings attended
1
Zarir J. Cama (Chair)  3/3
Michael Muller 3/3
Martin Bloom  3/3
Dr Caroline Brown 3/3
1.  Additional ad hoc meetings were also held during 
the course of the year, which were not pre-scheduled 
into the annual Board and Committee meeting 
calendar, to discuss specific matters of business.
Committee meetings
All members of the Committee are 
independent Non-executive Directors  
who are free from any relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect,  
or could appear to affect, the Committee 
members’ judgement. Dr Henri Winand 
(Chief Executive Officer), other members of 
the Board, Julie Evans (Group HR Director) 
and external advisers are also invited to 
attend meetings of the Committee where 
this is considered appropriate. They are not 
present when their own remuneration is 
discussed. Nicholas Heard, the Company 
Secretary, is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets as appropriate but  
at least two times per year. During the 
financial year ended 30 September 2015, 
the Committee held three pre-scheduled 
meetings in accordance with the Board  
and Committee meeting calendar. The 
Committee also held additional meetings 
during the year on an ad hoc basis to 
discuss specific matters of business.  
Details of Director attendance at 
Committee meetings held during  
the financial year ended 30 September  
2015 are shown above and can also be 
found on page 48 of the corporate 
governance report.
Responsibilities of the Committee
Full details of the Committee’s roles  
and responsibilities are set out within  
its terms of reference, which were  
agreed by the Board last year. These  
are available on the Company’s website  
at www.intelligent-energy.com, or from 
the Company Secretary at the Registered 
Office. The Committee will ensure that it 
regularly reviews the terms of reference  
by which it operates.
The key responsibilities of the Committee 
are listed below:
• determine the Group’s policy on the 
remuneration of senior executives and 
specific remuneration packages for 
Executive Directors and the Chairman;
• recommend and monitor the level  
and structure of remuneration for  
senior management;
• when setting remuneration policy for 
Directors, review and have regard to pay 
and employment conditions across the 
Group especially when determining 
annual salary increases;
• obtain reliable, up to date information 
about remuneration in other companies 
of comparable scale and complexity;
• approve the design of, and determine 
targets for, any performance-related pay 
schemes operated by the Company and 
approve the total annual payments made 
under such schemes;
• review the design of all share incentive 
plans for approval by the Board and 
shareholders;
• ensure that contractual terms on 
termination and any payments made are 
fair to the individual and the Company, 
that failure is not rewarded and that the 
duty to mitigate loss is appropriately 
recognised; and 
• oversee any major changes in employee 
benefits structures throughout the Group.
54 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Statement from the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present our Directors’ remuneration report for 
the year ended 30 September 2015, being our 
first full year since Admission to the London 
Stock Exchange on 9 July 2014 (‘Admission’). 
This report is presented in two sections:
• The Directors’ remuneration policy –  
this sets out our remuneration policy for 
Directors which was approved at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting on 27 February 
2015. We were delighted with the level of 
support received, with very near to 100 per 
cent of votes being cast in favour of the 
policy. The Committee believes that the 
policy approved at the 2015 AGM remains 
appropriate. Accordingly, shareholder 
approval will not be sought for a new 
policy and the policy approved at the  
2015 AGM will continue to apply in 2016. 
• The annual report on remuneration –  
this provides details of the amounts 
earned by Directors in respect of the 
financial year ended 30 September 2015 
and how the Directors’ remuneration 
policy will be operated for the financial 
year commencing 1 October 2015. This 
will be subject to an advisory vote at the 
2016 Annual General Meeting.
Our approach to remuneration
Our remuneration policy in respect of 
Executive Directors’ remuneration is 
formulated to ensure that the policy is 
aligned with best practice while continuing 
to enable the Company to attract the right 
calibre of executives. Our reward strategy  
is to provide remuneration packages that 
promote the long-term success of the 
Company, with stretching performance 
conditions aligned to the high-growth nature 
of our business, which are rigorously applied, 
attached to performance-related elements. 
Our performance in 2015 and how our 
remuneration arrangements are linked 
to our strategy
It has been a very important and 
challenging year for Intelligent Energy.  
We have taken a number of important  
steps forward as we continue to focus on 
developing world-class fuel cell technology 
and commercialising this across our three 
target end-markets. During 2015 we have 
delivered significant increases in our 
revenues whilst controlling our cash-burn 
to provide a stable platform for growth 
moving forward. 
Our approach to reward continues to 
promote the drive for high growth through 
stretching performance conditions whilst 
acknowledging that introducing any new 
disruptive technology continues to prove 
very challenging. 
Remuneration decisions in respect of the 
financial year ended 30 September 2015
The base salaries that were set for Executive 
Directors following Admission applied  
for the whole of the financial year ended  
30 September 2015.
Annual bonus performance measures for 
the Executive Directors were based on 
delivery of Group financial performance, 
successful fundraising rounds and other 
personal measures. Performance against 
these targets was only partially met. 
Reflecting the challenging conditions faced 
and the considerable progress that has 
been made, as further described from 
pages 12 to 25 of the Strategic report,  
the Committee has awarded the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer a bonus of £50,000 each. In 
accordance with our shareholder-approved 
Directors’ remuneration policy, 50 per cent 
of the bonus earned will be delivered in the 
form of a share award under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan, further aligning the interests  
of the Directors with those of shareholders. 
Payment of these bonuses, including the 
vesting of the Deferred Bonus Plan element, 
will be conditional upon a further 
performance condition relating to the 
Company’s fundraising activities.
No long-term incentive awards vested or 
were due to vest in respect of performance 
in the year ended 30 September 2015.  
The awards under the Company’s 
Management Incentive Plan (‘MIP’) 
crystallised at Admission and Tranche 2  
of the MIP awards vested on the first 
anniversary of Admission (in July 2015). 
Tranche 3 is due to vest in July 2016. 
No long-term incentive awards were 
granted during the financial year ended  
30 September 2015 as a result of regulatory 
restrictions on the granting of share awards.
Remuneration in the year commencing  
1 October 2015
For the financial year commencing  
1 October 2015, Executive Directors’ salaries 
will remain unchanged. 
Each Executive Director will have the 
opportunity to earn a bonus in respect of 
the financial year commencing 1 October 
2015 of up to 100 per cent of base salary.  
The bonus opportunity will be subject to 
stretching performance conditions based on 
Group financial performance as regards 50 
per cent of the opportunity and fundraising 
and/or personal strategic measures as 
regards the remaining 50 per cent. 
The Committee intends to grant long-term 
incentive awards to the Executive Directors 
in respect of the financial year commencing 
1 October 2015 at the level of 150 per cent  
of base salary. The vesting of these awards 
will be subject to the satisfaction of stretching 
performance conditions based on adjusted 
EBITDA and share price targets. While 
recognising the fall in the Company’s share 
price since Admission, the Committee considers 
it appropriate to grant long-term incentive 
awards at this level taking into account  
the stretching nature of the performance 
conditions. The specific details of the 
performance measures and targets for both 
the annual bonus and long-term incentives 
are commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed 
retrospectively when they are no longer 
considered to be commercially sensitive. 
We continue to believe that our executive 
remuneration arrangements are structured 
to support the delivery of our strategic 
priorities and no changes are proposed  
at this time. The Remuneration Committee 
will continue to monitor the remuneration 
policy to ensure it remains aligned to the 
Company’s business strategy and to the 
delivery of shareholder value.
Approval
The Directors’ remuneration report has 
been approved by the Board.
Zarir J. Cama
Remuneration Committee Chair, 
Independent Non-executive Director
27 November 2015
55 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ remuneration policy
Introduction
The remuneration policy has been developed to ensure that the Company is able to attract and retain the right calibre of executives to drive 
business performance. The components of remuneration reflect that Intelligent Energy is a high-growth company and reward should be 
linked to the performance of the business. Performance measures enable executives to share in the success of the Company through the 
ability to earn larger awards where stretching performance targets are achieved.
Directors’ remuneration policy
The Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders on 27 February 2015 at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
The policy is set out below, except that we have not repeated the charts illustrating the application of the policy in 2014/2015, as these are  
historic, and we have updated date-specific references. The full policy as approved at the 2015 Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 
42 to 49 of the 2013/2014 report and accounts which are available at www.intelligent-energy.com. 
Executive Directors
Component
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary Core element of 
fixed remuneration 
reflecting the 
individual’s role  
and experience.
Salaries are usually reviewed annually. 
Salary levels are determined taking 
into account a range of factors, which 
may include (but are not limited to):
• Underlying Company performance.
• Role, experience and individual 
performance. 
• Competitive salary levels and  
market forces.
• Pay and conditions elsewhere  
in the Group.
Whilst there is no maximum salary level, 
salary increases will normally be in line 
with the typical level of increase awarded 
(in percentage of salary terms) to other 
employees in the Group.
Salary increases above this level may  
be awarded in certain circumstances, 
such as:
• Where an Executive Director has been 
promoted or has had a change in 
scope or responsibility.
• To reflect an individual’s development 
or performance in a role (e.g. a newly 
appointed Executive Director being 
moved to be aligned with the market 
over time).
• Where there has been a change in 
market practice.
• Where there has been a change in the 
size and/or complexity of the business.
Such increases may be implemented over 
such time period as the Remuneration 
Committee deems appropriate. 
n/a 
Benefits To provide broadly 
market-competitive 
benefits as part of 
the total 
remuneration 
package.
Executive Directors receive benefits in 
line with market practice, and these 
include private medical insurance and 
life insurance.
Other benefits may be provided  
based on individual circumstances. 
These may include relocation 
expenses, expatriate allowances  
and travel expenses. 
Although the Remuneration Committee 
does not consider it appropriate to set  
a maximum benefits level, they are set 
at a level which the Remuneration 
Committee considers appropriate  
based on individual circumstances.
n/a
Retirement 
benefits
To provide an 
appropriate level of 
retirement benefit 
(or cash allowance 
equivalent).
Executive Directors are eligible  
to participate in the Company’s 
defined contribution Group personal 
pension plan. 
In appropriate circumstances, such  
as where contributions exceed the 
annual or lifetime allowance, Executive 
Directors may take a taxable cash 
allowance instead of contributions to  
a pension plan.
Pension contributions (and/or cash 
allowance) are currently provided at the 
level of 4.5 per cent of salary for the 
Chief Executive Officer and 3 per cent  
of salary for the Chief Financial Officer. 
The Remuneration Committee proposes 
to review the level of retirement benefit 
provision with the intention to increase 
the level of contribution/cash allowance, 
but subject to a maximum of 15 per cent 
of salary. 
n/a
56 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Component
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
All-employee 
share plans
To create alignment 
with the Group and 
promote a sense  
of ownership. 
The Company has adopted and 
proposes to operate a tax qualifying, 
all-employee Sharesave Plan in which 
the Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate by making monthly savings 
contributions over a period of three  
or five years linked to the grant of an 
option over the Company’s shares  
with an option price which can be at  
a discount of up to 20 per cent to the 
market value of shares at grant.
The limit on participation under the 
Sharesave Plan will be that set in 
accordance with the applicable  
tax legislation from time to time.  
The contribution limit as at  
30 September 2015 is £500 per month. 
Not subject to performance 
measures, in line with HMRC 
practice.
Annual 
bonus and 
Deferred 
Bonus Plan 
(‘DBP’)
Annual bonus 
The Executive 
Directors’ annual 
bonus arrangement 
rewards Executive 
Directors for 
achieving financial 
and strategic targets 
in the relevant year 
by reference to 
operational targets 
and individual 
objectives. 
DBP 
Provides a retention 
element through 
share ownership 
and direct 
alignment with 
shareholders’ 
interests.
Annual bonus 
Performance measures and targets are 
reviewed annually and pay-out levels 
are determined by the Remuneration 
Committee after the year end, based  
on performance against the targets.  
The Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to amend the pay-out should 
any formulaic output not reflect the 
Remuneration Committee’s assessment 
of overall business performance. 
The application of clawback to annual 
bonus awards is summarised below 
this table.
50 per cent of any bonus earned  
is deferred into a share award under 
the DBP . 
DBP 
Awards under the DBP will be granted 
as a contingent award of shares or  
the grant of a nil-cost option, in  
either case vesting after a period  
of two years. Awards may be settled  
in cash at the election of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Deferral of any bonus is subject to  
a de minimis limit of up to £25,000. 
Awards under the DBP may be granted 
on the basis that the number of shares 
shall be increased to reflect dividends 
paid over the vesting period, or the 
Remuneration Committee may make a 
cash payment equal to those dividends 
on release of the shares. 
The application of malus and  
clawback to DBP awards is 
summarised on page 58.
Annual bonus 
Maximum bonus opportunity for 
Executive Directors is 100 per cent  
of annual base salary.
Annual bonus 
Performance measures and targets 
are set annually reflecting the 
Company’s strategy and aligned 
with key financial, strategic and/or 
individual targets. 
Stretching targets are required 
for maximum pay-out. 
At least 50 per cent of the bonus 
will be assessed against financial 
performance measures which may 
include revenue or profit or other 
key financial performance metrics 
of the Company. The balance of 
the bonus may be assessed against 
non-financial strategic measures 
and/or individual performance.
Financial metrics 
Up to 20 per cent of the 
maximum potential will be 
earned for “threshold” 
performance (the minimum level 
of performance resulting in a 
payment). Up to 50 per cent  
of the maximum potential will  
be earned for “on-target” 
performance and 100 per cent 
for “maximum” performance.
Non-financial or individual 
metrics 
Vesting of any non-financial 
element of the bonus opportunity 
will apply on a scale between  
0 per cent and 100 per cent based 
on the Remuneration Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which 
the relevant target has been met.
The performance metrics that 
will apply for 2015/16 are set out 
on page 65 of the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
DBP 
Deferred shares are not subject 
to any additional performance 
conditions after the application 
of the performance condition 
which determines the amount  
of bonus earned. 
57 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
Information supporting the policy table
Performance measures 
Performance measures for the annual bonus and PSP awards are 
selected to reflect the Company’s strategy. Stretching performance 
targets are set each year by the Remuneration Committee taking  
into account a number of different factors. Reflecting the current 
stage of growth of the Company, a significant focus of the measures 
will be related to revenue growth and the commercialisation of the 
Group’s products. 
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust or  
set different performance measures or targets where it considers  
it appropriate to do so (for example, to reflect a change in strategy,  
a material acquisition and/or a divestment of a Group business or a 
change in prevailing market conditions and to assess performance  
on a fair and consistent basis from year to year).
Application of clawback and malus to variable remuneration
For up to three years following the payment of an annual bonus 
award, the Remuneration Committee may require the repayment  
of some or all of the award if there is a material misstatement or 
restatement of audited financial results, if the individual has 
committed gross misconduct or if information comes to light which, 
had it been known at the relevant time, would have affected a 
decision as to the extent to which that award would have vested.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to reduce, cancel  
or impose further conditions on unvested PSP and DBP shares  
in circumstances including where there has been: a material 
misstatement of audited financial results; a material failure of risk 
management, a material breach of applicable Health & Safety 
regulations or serious reputational damage to the Company.  
In addition, for up to three years following the vesting of a PSP  
or DBP award the Remuneration Committee may require the 
repayment of some or all of an exercised award (or may reduce  
or cancel a vested but unexercised award) if there is a material 
misstatement or restatement of audited financial results, if the 
individual has committed gross misconduct or if information  
comes to light which, had it been known at the relevant time, 
would have affected a decision as to the extent to which that  
award would have been granted or would have vested.
Operation of the DBP , PSP and Sharesave Plan
The DBP , PSP and Sharesave Plan will be operated by the 
Remuneration Committee in accordance with the relevant plan 
rules, including the ability to adjust the number of shares subject  
to awards and the option price in the event of a variation of share 
capital, demerger, special dividend, distribution or any other 
corporate event which may affect the value of an award. 
Early vesting of awards
As described on page 61, awards may vest earlier than anticipated  
in “good leaver” circumstances. 
In the event of a change of control of the Company or other 
relevant corporate event (such as a demerger, delisting, special 
dividend or other event which may affect the value of an award), 
awards under the DBP and PSP may vest early as follows:
Component
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Performance 
Share Plan 
(‘PSP’)
To incentivise 
Executive Directors, 
and to deliver 
genuine 
performance-
related pay, with  
a clear line of sight 
for Executives and 
direct alignment 
with shareholders’ 
interests.
Long-term incentive awards are 
granted under the PSP . Awards under 
the PSP will typically be granted as  
a contingent award of shares or the 
grant of a nil-cost option, in either 
case vesting subject to the satisfaction 
of performance targets.
Awards may be settled in cash  
(or granted as a right to a cash 
amount) at the election of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Awards under the PSP may be granted 
on the basis that the number of shares 
shall be increased to reflect dividends 
paid over the vesting period, or the 
Remuneration Committee may  
make a cash payment equal to those 
dividends on release of the shares. 
The vesting of awards will be subject 
to the achievement of specified 
performance conditions, over a  
period of at least three years. 
The application of malus and clawback 
to PSP awards is summarised below 
this table.
The usual maximum award level under 
the PSP in respect of any financial year 
for Executive Directors is awards over 
shares with a value of 150 per cent  
of salary. 
The absolute maximum under the rules 
of the PSP in respect of any financial 
year for Executive Directors is awards 
over shares with a value of 300 per cent 
of salary.
Awards above the usual maximum  
(but subject to the 300 per cent 
absolute maximum) may be made  
in circumstances including, but not 
limited to, recruitment. 
Relevant performance measures 
are set that reflect underlying 
business performance.
Performance measures and  
their weighting where there  
is more than one measure are 
reviewed annually to maintain 
appropriateness and relevance.
At least 50 per cent of an award 
will be based on financial 
measures with the balance of an 
award based on financial and/or 
strategic measures. 
For threshold levels of 
performance 25 per cent of the 
award will vest, rising to 100 per 
cent of the award vesting for 
maximum performance. Below 
threshold performance, the 
award will not vest. 
58 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc • DBP: awards would vest early on the occurrence of a change of 
control or other relevant corporate event in accordance with the 
rules of the DBP . 
• PSP: awards would vest early on the occurrence of a change  
of control or other relevant corporate event in accordance  
with the rules of the PSP . The Remuneration Committee shall 
determine the extent of vesting taking into account the extent  
to which the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. 
Such vesting would ordinarily be on a time pro-rata basis 
although the Remuneration Committee has the discretion not  
to apply time pro-rating. 
Options under the Sharesave Plan will vest early in the event of  
a change of control in accordance with the rules of the Sharesave 
plan. Awards under any other all-employee share plan operated  
by the Company would also be expected to vest early on the 
occurrence of a change of control. 
Legacy share plans – the Intelligent Energy 2013 Management 
Incentive Plan (the ‘MIP’)
No further awards can be granted under the MIP . The Remuneration 
Committee will operate the MIP in accordance with its terms (which 
give the Remuneration Committee discretion to adjust the number 
of shares subject to awards in the event of a variation of share capital, 
demerger, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event 
which may affect the value of an award and to settle awards, other 
than Approved Options, in cash). Outstanding awards under the MIP 
vested as to 50 per cent on 9 July 2015 (being the first anniversary  
of Admission) and 50 per cent are scheduled to vest on 9 July 2016 
(being the second anniversary of Admission). Awards under the MIP 
may vest early in the event of a change of control of the Company (or 
other relevant corporate event) or on cessation of employment as 
described on page 61.
Non-executive Directors
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Other items
To enable the 
Company to 
attract and retain 
Non-executive 
Directors of the 
required calibre  
by offering market 
competitive rates.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board 
responsibilities. 
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee and additional 
fees for holding the office of Senior Independent Director 
or chairmanship of a Board committee. 
The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and the fees of the other Non-executive 
Directors are determined by the Board. 
Fees are based on the level of fees paid to Non-executive 
Directors serving on the Board of similar-sized UK listed 
companies and the time commitment and contribution 
expected for the role.
Overall fees paid to Non-executive Directors will 
remain within the limits set by the Company’s Articles 
of Association.
Non-executive Directors may be eligible to receive benefits such as travel 
and other reasonable expenses. 
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Company’s share 
plans, incentive schemes or pension plans. 
Dr Philip Mitchell is also entitled to fees under a separate consultancy 
agreement for other services provided to the Company. These services  
are in connection with the management of the affairs of the Company  
and details of the amounts paid under these arrangements in the financial 
year ended 30 September 2015 are included at page 63. 
Legacy share options 
Flavio Guidotti has outstanding share options, which are outlined 
on page 67 of the annual report on remuneration.
Policy for the remuneration of employees more generally
The Company aims to provide a remuneration package that is 
competitive in an employee’s country of employment and which  
is appropriate to promote the long-term success of the Company. 
The Company intends to apply this policy fairly and consistently  
and does not intend to pay more than is necessary to attract and 
motivate staff. In respect of Executive Directors, a greater proportion 
of the remuneration package is “at risk” and determined by  
reference to performance conditions. The Company’s Sharesave  
Plan encourages share ownership by qualifying employees in the  
UK and enables them to share in the value created for shareholders. 
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration 
Committee will typically align the remuneration package with  
the above policy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements,  
the Remuneration Committee may include other elements of  
pay which it considers are appropriate and necessary to recruit  
and retain the individual. However, this discretion is capped and  
is subject to the limits referred to below:
• Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the 
experience of the Director being appointed. This may include 
agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with 
increased experience and/or responsibilities, subject to good 
performance, where it is considered appropriate. 
• Pension and benefits will only be provided in line with the  
above policy.
• The Remuneration Committee will not offer non-performance 
related incentive payments (for example a ‘guaranteed  
sign-on bonus’).
59 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
Name Original appointment date
1
Re-appointment date Expiry
2
Notice period
Paul Heiden 28 September 2012 28 September 2015 27 September 2018 Three months
Dr Henri Winand 1 September 2006 – – Twelve months
John Maguire 20 January 2012 – – Twelve months
Michael Muller 22 June 2012 22 June 2015 21 June 2018 Three months
Dr Philip Mitchell 29 November 2013
3
– 28 November 2016 Three months
Zarir J. Cama 22 June 2012 22 June 2015 21 June 2018 Three months
Martin Bloom 22 June 2012 22 June 2015 21 June 2018 Three months
Flavio Guidotti 15 July 2005 – – Three months
4
Dr Caroline Brown 2 May 2014 – 1 May 2017 Three months
1.  The original appointment dates shown above confirm the original date of appointment for each Director to the Company’s Board. Revised letters of appointment were then signed by  
the Chairman and each of the Non-executive Directors on 9 July 2014, being the date of the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange. The commencement dates shown above 
for Dr Henri Winand and John Maguire confirm their original appointment date as Executive Directors of the Company; the Executive Directors then signed new service agreements on  
19 June 2014, ahead of the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange. 
2.  The continued appointment of each Director remains subject to annual shareholder re-election at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in accordance with best practice corporate 
governance principles.
3.  Dr Philip Mitchell was originally appointed as an Executive Director of the Company on 19 September 2005. The commencement date shown above relates to Dr Mitchell’s appointment  
as a Non-executive Director of the Company.
4.  Flavio Guidotti was appointed as Non-executive Director on 15 July 2005, but subject to the terms of a subscription agreement between Evolution Placements Corporation (‘EPC’) and  
the Company dated 21 October 2005. The Company may not serve notice to Flavio Guidotti without the consent of EPC, unless Mr Guidotti has committed a material breach of his duties 
to the Company, or EPC ceases to have the right to nominate a person for election to the Board of the Company.
• Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
 – An interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director 
role on a short-term basis;
 – If exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a 
Non-executive Director takes on an executive function on a 
short-term basis;
 – If an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when  
it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term 
incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient 
time to assess performance. Subject to the limit on variable 
remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the 
months employed during the year may be transferred to the 
subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and 
appropriate basis;
 – If the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the 
position, it is the Company’s policy to allow reasonable relocation, 
travel and subsistence payments, in line with the Company 
relocation policy. Any such payments will be at the discretion of  
the Remuneration Committee.
• The Remuneration Committee may also alter the performance 
measures, performance period and vesting period of the annual 
bonus or PSP , if the Remuneration Committee determines that the 
circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The 
rationale will be clearly explained in the following Directors’ 
remuneration report.
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be 
granted (excluding ‘buyout’ awards as referred to below) is 400 
per cent of salary.
The Remuneration Committee may make payments or awards in 
respect of hiring an employee to ‘buyout’ remuneration 
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, 
the Remuneration Committee will take account of relevant factors 
including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited 
arrangements and the time over which they would have vested.  
The Remuneration Committee will generally seek to structure 
buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to the 
remuneration arrangements forfeited. Any such payments or 
awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable 
remuneration referred to above. ‘Buyout’ awards will ordinarily be 
granted on the basis that they are subject to forfeiture or clawback 
in the event of departure within 12 months of joining the Company, 
although the Remuneration Committee will retain discretion not to 
apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as 
possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If necessary and 
subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be 
granted outside these plans.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration 
obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed 
to continue in accordance with their terms.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or Non-executive 
Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time  
of appointment.
Service contracts
Each Executive Director has a service contract with the Company which 
may be terminated by the Company or Director by giving 12 months’ 
notice. While the Remuneration Committee’s policy is for the service 
contract of any newly appointed Executive Director to have a notice 
period of not more than 12 months, the Remuneration Committee 
retains discretion to set an initial notice period of up to 24 months 
reducing to 12 months after the initial 12 months of employment. 
Details of the Directors’ service contracts (or letter of appointment  
in the case of a Non-executive Director), notice periods and, where 
applicable, expiry dates, are set out in the table below:
60 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Payments for loss of office
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are set out below:
Policy
Payment in lieu of notice Each Executive Director’s service contract contains provision for payment in lieu of notice at the 
discretion of the Company. Such payment would consist of basic salary for the notice period (or the 
balance of the notice period if relevant) and may also include benefits for the relevant period. 
Annual bonus This will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an individual basis and the decision 
as to whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent on a number of factors, 
including the circumstances of the individual’s departure and their contribution to the business  
during the bonus period in question. Any bonus amounts paid will be pro-rated for time in service 
during the bonus period and will be paid at the usual time (although the Remuneration Committee 
retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances).
DBP The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of 
the DBP . If a participant leaves due to death, ill-health, injury, disability, the sale of his employer or any 
other reason at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, the Remuneration Committee shall 
determine whether any unvested awards he holds will vest at cessation or at the normal vesting date. 
Unvested awards will lapse if the participant leaves for any other reason.
If a participant leaves for one of the “good leaver” reasons referred to above, awards which have 
already vested at the date of cessation may be exercised during such period as the Remuneration 
Committee determines. 
PSP The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of 
the PSP . Unvested awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, if the participant 
leaves due to death, illness, injury, disability, sale of his employer or any other reason at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee, the Remuneration Committee shall determine whether the award 
will vest at cessation or at the normal vesting date. In either case, the extent of vesting will be 
determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the extent to which the 
performance condition is satisfied and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, 
the period of time elapsed from the date of grant to the date of cessation. Awards may then be 
exercised during such period as the Remuneration Committee determines.
If a participant leaves for one of the “good leaver” reasons referred to above, awards which have 
already vested at the date of cessation may be exercised for such period as the Remuneration 
Committee determines. 
MIP The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of 
the MIP . Unvested awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, unvested awards 
will vest at cessation if the participant leaves due to death or will continue and vest at the normal 
vesting date if the participant leaves due to disability or, at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, for any other reason. 
Mitigation Where appropriate the Remuneration Committee would have regard to the departing Director’s duty 
to mitigate loss. 
Other payments Payments may be made (in the event of a loss of office) under the Sharesave Plan which is governed by 
its rules and the legislation relating to such tax qualifying plans. There is no discretionary treatment for 
leavers under this scheme.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement 
and legal fees. 
Where a buy-out award is made, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
61 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional 
exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for 
breach of such an obligation), or by way of settlement or compromise 
of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s 
office or employment. 
Existing contractual arrangements
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to make any 
remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the 
policy in this report:
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy 
came into effect.
• Where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when  
the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and,  
in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment  
was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director  
of the Company.
• To satisfy contractual commitments under legacy remuneration 
arrangements.
For these purposes, “payment” includes the satisfaction of awards 
of variable remuneration. In relation to an award over shares, the 
terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted. 
Statement of consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group
The Remuneration Committee does not formally consult with 
employees as part of its process when determining Directors’ pay. 
However, the Remuneration Committee is kept informed of general 
decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues. As 
noted in the Directors’ remuneration policy table, the level of salary 
increases of employees within the wider Group is considered when 
setting base salary for the Directors. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback 
received on remuneration matters, as well as any additional 
comments received during any other meetings with shareholders. 
62 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Annual report on remuneration
The following part of the remuneration report is subject to audit, other than the elements explaining the application of the remuneration 
policy for 2015.
“Single figure” of remuneration
The table below details the total remuneration receivable by each Director for the financial years ended 30 September 2015 and 30 
September 2014. Where necessary, further explanation of the values provided is included in the footnotes to the table or the additional 
information that follows it.
Salary and 
fees 
£’000
1
 
Taxable 
benefits 
£’000
2
Annual  
bonus 
£’000
LTIP 
£’000
3
Pension 
£’000
4
 
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
Non-executive Chairman
Paul Heiden
2014/2015 150 – – – – 150
2013/2014 111 – 50
5
– – 161
Executive Directors
Dr Henri Winand
2014/2015 350 1 –
6
– 17 368
2013/2014 235 1 – 5,967 11 6,214
John Maguire
2014/2015 275 2 –
6
– 8 285
2013/2014 202 2 75 1,909 3 2,191
Non-executive Directors
Michael Muller
2014/2015 53 – – – – 53
2013/2014 46 – – – – 46
Dr Philip Mitchell
7
2014/2015 79 – – – – 79
2013/2014 105 – – – – 105
Zarir J Cama
2014/2015 53 – – – – 53
2013/2014 48 – – – – 48
Martin Bloom
2014/2015 53 – – – – 53
2013/2014 46 – – – – 46
Flavio Guidotti
2014/2015 45 52 – – – 97
2013/2014 41 52 – – – 93
Dr Caroline Brown
8
2014/2015 53 – – – – 53
2013/2014 21 – – – – 21
1.  The salaries and fees for 2013/2014 reflect the salaries and fees paid in respect of that year. Where salaries or fees were increased during the year, the figure is calculated as the aggregate of 
the pro-rated salary/fee for each part of the year. 
2.  In the “single figure” of remuneration table, the value in the “benefits” column is the taxable value of benefits received in the year. These are medical insurance and, for Flavio Guidotti, 
taxable travel allowance. 
3.  In the “single figure” of remuneration table, the value in the “LTIP” column for Dr Henri Winand and John Maguire for 2013/2014 is the value related to the Company’s 2013 Management 
Incentive Plan which vested in the year ending 30 September 2014, as noted below. 
4.  The pension figure represents the cash value of Company pension contributions paid to the Executive Directors’ Group Personal Pension Plan or as a cash allowance.
5. The bonus to the Non-executive Chairman in 2013/2014 was in recognition of the additional activities and time commitment required in the period leading up to Admission.
6.  The bonuses to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer for 2014/15 are conditional upon a further performance condition relating to the Company’s fundraising activities 
and are therefore not included in the single figure table above. Any bonus that may be paid will be included within the single figure table for the period in which the performance 
conditions have been met.
7.  Dr Philip Mitchell was an Executive Director of the Company from 19 September 2005 until 28 November 2013. From 29 November 2013 Dr Mitchell was a Non-executive Director of the 
Company. From 2 December 2013, Dr Philip Mitchell also provided consultancy services through Root Ten Limited for the Company. These services are in connection with the 
management of the affairs of the Company. The fees referred to above for 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 represent both his fees as an Executive Director and as a consultant. The fees referred 
to above for 2013/2014 represent his salary as an Executive Director in the period from 1 October 2013 until 28 November 2013 and his fees as a Non-executive Director and as a consultant 
in the period from 29 November 2013 until 30 September 2014. 
8.  Dr Caroline Brown was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 2 May 2014. The fees referred to above for 2013/2014 represent her fees as a Non-executive Director in the period from 
appointment until 30 September 2014. 
63 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
2014/2015 annual bonus 
The annual bonus performance measures for the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer for 2014/2015 were based on 
delivery of financial targets, successful fundraising rounds and 
other personal measures. The payment of the bonuses earned by 
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer (including 
the vesting of the Deferred Bonus Plan element) will be conditional 
upon a further performance condition relating to the Company’s 
fundraising activities.
Dr Henri Winand
Measures Maximum Bonus Earned
Financial targets
£350,000
(100% of salary)
£50,000
(14.3% of salary) Fundraising targets
Personal measures
John Maguire
Measures Maximum Bonus Earned
Financial targets
£275,000
(100% of salary)
£50,000
(18.2% of salary) Fundraising targets
Personal measures
The performance measures are matters that are commercially 
sensitive. Taking into account the current stage of the Company’s 
development, disclosure of retrospective information could still 
give the Company’s competitors insight into the Company’s 
business plans and expectations; accordingly, these measures 
should remain confidential to the Company.  
The bonuses earned in respect of 2015, which remain conditional 
upon a further performance condition relating to the Company’s 
fundraising activities, reflect both the challenging conditions faced 
and the progress made in commercialising our fuel cell technology 
across the three target end-markets. 
Long-term incentives vesting in 2014 and 2015
As disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report for the year 
ending 30 September 2014, on 7 March 2014, awards under the 
Company’s 2013 Management Incentive Plan (the ‘MIP’) were 
granted to 31 selected employees, including Dr Henri Winand  
and John Maguire. 
The MIP awards vested or will vest as a result of Admission with  
one third vesting on Admission, one third vesting on the first 
anniversary of Admission and the final third vesting on the  
second anniversary of Admission. Because the second and third 
tranches of the awards are not subject to any further performance 
conditions, all three tranches of the awards were included in the 
“single figure” of remuneration table for 2013/2014 and no long-
term incentives vested in the year ended 30 September 2015. The 
second tranche of the MIP vested on 9 July 2015, but shares have 
not yet been delivered to the participants. Vesting of the third 
tranche of the award will ordinarily be subject to continued 
employment up to the vesting date. 
Long-term incentives granted in the year ended  
30 September 2015
It was originally proposed that the Executive Directors would be 
granted awards under the Company’s 2014 Performance Share Plan. 
However, no long-term incentives were granted during the year 
ended 30 September 2015 as a result of regulatory restrictions on 
the granting of share awards. 
Implementation of the Directors’ remuneration policy in the financial year 
commencing 1 October 20 1 5
Base salary and fees
Base salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 October. For the year commencing 1 October 2015 Executive Director salaries will 
remain unchanged. Non-executive Directors’ fees will not be increased for the year commencing 1 October 2015.
2014/15 base salary/fee 2015/16 base salary/fee
Paul Heiden (Non-executive Chairman) £150,000 £150,000
Dr Henri Winand (Chief Executive Officer) £350,000 £350,000
John Maguire (Chief Financial Officer) £275,000 £275,000
Non-executive Director (basic fee) £45,000 £45,000
Additional fee for holding the office of Senior Independent Director £8,000 £8,000
Additional fee for holding the office of Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
or of the Nomination Committee or of the Audit & Risk Committee
£8,000
(per Committee)
£8,000
(per Committee)
64 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Annual bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan
For the financial year ending 30 September 2016, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will each be eligible to earn a bonus 
on the following basis: 
Opportunity Operation Performance measures
The maximum opportunity 
for each of the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer will be 100 
per cent of salary. 
50 per cent of any bonus earned will be payable  
in cash. 
50 per cent of any bonus earned will be delivered in 
the form of a nil-cost award under the Company’s 
2014 Deferred Bonus Plan, which will ordinarily vest, 
subject to continued employment, after two years.
50 per cent based on Group financial  
performance metrics.
50 per cent based on fundraising and/or other 
personal measures. 
The Committee considers that future Group financial performance or fundraising targets and the strategic individual targets are matters 
which are commercially sensitive; they would provide Intelligent Energy’s competitors with insight into the Company’s business plans and 
expectations and should therefore remain confidential to the Company. However, the Committee will disclose targets and performance 
against these retrospectively when they are no longer considered to be commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentives
For the financial year commencing 1 October 2015, it is proposed that the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be granted 
awards under the Company’s 2014 Performance Share Plan on the following basis. 
Opportunity Operation Performance measures
The maximum award for 
each of the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer will be 150 per cent  
of salary. 
Awards will be granted in the form of nil-cost 
awards under the Company’s Performance Share 
Plan, with vesting subject to the satisfaction of 
performance conditions measured over the 
Company’s 2016, 2017 and 2018 financial years. 
Awards will vest subject to the satisfaction of 
adjusted EBITDA and share price targets (with equal 
weighting) and subject in all cases to the Company’s 
underlying financial performance over the Company’s 
2016, 2017 and 2018 financial years. 
The Committee consider that long-term incentive targets are matters which are commercially sensitive and would provide  
Intelligent Energy’s competitors with direct insight into the Company’s medium-term strategy and business plans and should  
therefore remain confidential to the Company. The Committee will disclose the performance targets on a retrospective basis at vesting. 
The share price target was set taking into account the share price upon Admission for threshold vesting (25 per cent of the share price 
element), with full vesting of this element requiring additional stretch of share price performance. 
Payments made to former Directors during the financial year ended  
30 September 2015
No payments were made during the financial year ended 30 September 2015 to any person who was not a Director when the payment was 
made but who had previously been a Director.
Payments for loss of office made during the year
No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year ended 30 September 2015 to any person who was a Director at any time 
in the year or any previous year.
Shareholding guidelines
The Remuneration Committee has adopted a guideline that Executive Directors will be required to acquire shares (within a five year period 
from Admission or, if later, from date of appointment) with a value equal to 150 per cent of base salary and that 50 per cent of any after-tax 
shares acquired on the vesting of an award under the Company’s 2014 Performance Share Plan must be retained until the guideline is met. 
Only unfettered shares count towards this guideline (i.e. shares owned outright by the Executive Director or his spouse) or shares subject 
to awards under the Company’s share plans which have vested (on a net of tax basis). For these purposes, the value of the shares is the 
value at the date of acquisition or, in the case of shares subject to vested share awards, the value of the shares at vesting. 
The Chief Executive Officer currently meets the shareholding guidelines taking into account, in accordance with those guidelines, the value of 
the shares he holds as at the date he acquired them. The Chief Financial Officer does not currently meet the guidelines but is expected to 
achieve the required shareholding within the five year time period and his shareholding will increase when tranche 2 of the MIP is delivered. 
There are no shareholding guidelines that apply to the Non-executive Directors. 
65 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Shareholdings
The interests of the Directors and relevant connected persons in the Company’s ordinary shares as at 30 September 2015 are shown in the 
table below: 
Shares held by the Director and  
relevant connected persons as at
 30 September 2015
1
Paul Heiden (Non-executive Chairman) 40,000
Dr Henri Winand (Chief Executive Officer) 370,903
2
John Maguire (Chief Financial Officer) 21,574
2
Michael Muller (Independent Non-executive Director) 0
Dr Philip Mitchell (Non-executive Director) 1,245,834
Zarir J. Cama (Independent Non-executive Director) 20,000
Martin Bloom (Independent Non-executive Director) 0
Flavio Guidotti (Non-executive Director) 21,590,096
3
Dr Caroline Brown (Independent Non-executive Director) 0
1.  A breakdown of vested and unvested shares where the performance conditions have been met is shown below in the section ’Interests in the Company’s share plans’. There are currently no 
unvested share awards where the performance conditions have not been met.
2.  The shareholdings for Dr Henri Winand and John Maguire exclude tranche 2 of the MIP which has vested but, in accordance with the MIP rules, has not yet been delivered.
3.  The ordinary shares in which Flavio Guidotti is interested are comprised of 21,390,096 ordinary shares held by Evolution Placements Corporation (Flavio Guidotti is an investment and 
business adviser to the shareholders of Evolution Placements Corporation) and 200,000 ordinary shares held by Prismoy International S.A. (a company of which Flavio Guidotti is the 
beneficial owner).
Interests in the Company’s share plans
The Directors held the following awards under the Company’s share plans as at 30 September 2015. The performance measures applying 
to these awards have been met. 
The tables below do not include the face value of the shares at the date of grant as, at the time that the awards were granted, the shares 
did not have a face value.
Dr Henri Winand
Plan Date of grant Type of award
Number of 
shares
Exercise price 
(pence)
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date
2013 Management 
Incentive Plan
7 March 2014
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 1)
10,000 100 9 July 2014 6 April 2017
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 2)
10,000 100 9 July 2015 6 April 2017
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 3)
10,000 100 9 July 2016 6 April 2017
Share award 
(tranche 2)
577,923 0 The award vested on  
9 July 2015
1
Share award 
(tranche 3)
577,923 0 The award is due to vest on  
9 July 2016
1. The award vested on 9 July 2015 but, in accordance with the MIP rules, the shares have not yet been delivered to Dr Winand.
66 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Total shareholder return
£120
£0
£20
£40
£60
£80
09/07/14 30/09/14 31/12/14 31/03/15 30/06/15 30/09/15
£100
 FTSE All Share Intelligent Energy 
John Maguire
Plan Date of grant Type of award
Number of 
shares
Exercise price 
(pence)
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date
2013 Management 
Incentive Plan
7 March 2014
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 1)
10,000 100 9 July 2014 6 April 2017
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 2)
10,000 100 9 July 2015 6 April 2017
Tax qualifying 
option (tranche 3)
10,000 100 9 July 2016 6 April 2017
Share award 
(tranche 2)
180,135 0 The award vested on 
9 July 2015
1
Share award 
(tranche 3)
180,135 0 The award is due to vest on  
9 July 2016
1. The award vested on 9 July 2015 but, in accordance with the MIP rules, the shares have not yet been delivered to John Maguire. 
Flavio Guidotti
Plan
Date of 
grant
Type of 
award
At 30 
September 
2014
Exercised 
during  
the year Lapsed
At 30 
September 
2015
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Date from 
which 
exercisable
Expiry 
date
Intelligent Energy 
Limited 2001 Share 
Option Scheme  
(as amended on  
1 August 2003)
15 July 
2005
Share 
option
350,000 (140,000) (210,000) – 80 15 July 
2005
15 July 
2015
Intelligent Energy 
Holdings plc 2009 
Share Option 
Scheme
30 March 
2011
Share 
option
175,000 – (175,000) – 150 30 March 
2011
27 June 
2015
Intelligent Energy 
Holdings plc 2009 
Share Option 
Scheme
30 March 
2011
Share 
option
115,000 – – 115,000 150 30 March 
2011
27 June 
2016
The following sections of the annual report on remuneration are not subject to audit.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance for the Company’s shares in comparison to the FTSE All-Share 
Index for the period since Admission (9 July 2014) until 30 September 2015. The FTSE All-Share Index was chosen as the index against which 
to compare the Company’s TSR performance because, in the opinion of the Directors, it illustrates the Company’s TSR performance against 
a broad equity market index of UK companies. The graph shows the value, by the end of the 2015 financial year, of £100 invested in the 
Company’s shares on Admission compared with £100 invested at that time in the FTSE All-Share Index. 
67 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued
Historical Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes
The table below shows details of the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting (as a percentage of the maximum opportunity) for the 
Chief Executive Officer for the years ending 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2015. Note that as regards the year ended 30 September 
2014, this relates to the whole year and so is not directly comparable to the period used for TSR purposes in that year in the preceding chart. 
Year ended  
30 September 2014
Year ended  
30 September 2015
Total remuneration 6,214,000 368,000
Annual bonus as a percentage of maximum opportunity 0% 0%
2
LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity
1
N/A N/A
1.  On vesting of the MIP , each participant was entitled to share in a “MIP Pool” based on value realised by shareholders as calculated in accordance with the rules of the MIP. Accordingly,  
it is not possible to express the value derived as a percentage of the maximum opportunity. 
2.  The bonus to the Chief Executive Officer for 2014/15 is conditional upon a further performance condition relating to the Company’s fundraising activities, so is not included above.
Change in Chief Executive Officer remuneration compared to the change in remuneration of the wider workforce
The table below illustrates the change in the Chief Executive Officer’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 
compared to the average percentage change for all UK-based employees. UK-based employees have been selected as the comparator 
group reflecting that the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are UK-based. 
Salary
1
Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive Officer 49.2% 10.5% 0%
2
UK-based employees 6.1% 10.5% -168%
3
1.  The Chief Executive Officer’s salary for the 2014/2015 financial year was £350,000. As disclosed in the prospectus relating to Admission and the Directors’ remuneration report for the 2013/2014 
financial year, the Chief Executive Officer’s salary was increased to this level with effect from Admission. The percentage increase referred to in the table above therefore reflects that his salary 
for 2013/2014 was £200,000 for the period of that year up to Admission. The Chief Executive Officer’s salary set at Admission was applied for the whole of the 2014/2015 financial year. 
2.  The bonus to the Chief Executive Officer for 2014/15 is conditional upon a further performance condition relating to the Company’s fundraising activities, so is not included above.
3.  In 2013/2014 the majority of employees earned a bonus of £3,000 in respect of the Company’s IPO. Since no such bonus was earned in 2014/2015, the percentage change in bonus is not 
considered a meaningful comparison
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback and the overall 
expenditure on pay (as a whole across the organisation). The change in the average number of employees is also shown.
Year ended  
30 September 2014
Year ended  
30 September 2015
Percentage  
change
Dividends and share buybacks 0 0 N/A
Overall expenditure on pay £28.5 million £28.9 million 1.4%
Average number of employees 354 436 23.2%
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
Advisers
During the year ended 30 September 2015, Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Remuneration Committee to provide independent advice  
in relation to the Committee’s consideration of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration. Deloitte’s fees for advice provided to the 
Remuneration Committee during the year ended 30 September 2015 were £14,250. Fees were charged on a time and materials basis and 
included advice to the Company during the year in relation to share plans and senior management remuneration. 
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and voluntarily operates under its code of conduct in its dealing with 
the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee continued to review the appointment of Deloitte LLP and is satisfied that  
all advice received was objective and independent. 
68 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Statement of voting at the 2015 AGM
The following table sets out the actual voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors’ remuneration report and policy at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 27 February 2015. 
Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Votes withheld
To approve the Directors’ remuneration report 80,981,255 99.47 430,526 0.53 1,117,352
To approve the Directors’ remuneration policy 77,260,860 100 200 0 5,268,073
External appointments
John Maguire serves as a Non-executive Director of Jee Limited, a company outside the Intelligent Energy Group, from which he received  
a fee of £9,600 in the year, which he retained. 
69 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on  
the same basis. 
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and  
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the  
Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors  
are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable; 
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group  
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By order of the Board
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
27 November 2015
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer
27 November 2015
70 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc
We have audited the financial statements of Intelligent Energy 
Holdings plc for the year ended 30 September 2015 set out on 
pages 72 to 108. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU and,  
as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement 
set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 
September 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the strategic report and the Directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Anthony Hambleton  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
31 Park Row
Nottingham
NG1 6FQ
27 November 2015
71 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 201 5
Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 7 78.2 13.6
Cost of sales 8 (75.9) (9.9)
Gross profit 2.3 3.7
Research and development costs 8 (19.1) (21.3)
Operating costs 8 (24.9) (21.1)
Administration costs 8 (12.1) (16.9)
Operating loss (53.8) (55.6)
Finance income 11a 0.4 0.3
Finance cost 11b (1.7) (4.3)
Share of loss of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method – net of income tax 19 (0.8) (1.0)
Gain on disposal of joint venture 12 1.5 1.0
Loss before tax (54.4) (59.6)
Income tax 13 11.6 11.4
Loss for year attributable to owners of the Company (42.8) (48.2)
Earnings per share (expressed in pence per share)
Basic and diluted earnings per share 14 (22.7) (31.4)
All of the loss for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 September 201 5
2015
£m 
2014
£m
Loss for the year (42.8) (48.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense);
Items that are or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Exchange gain/(loss) on retranslation of foreign operations 0.2 (1.5)
Comprehensive expense for the year attributable to owners of the Company (42.6) (49.7)
All of the comprehensive expense for the year relates to continuing operations.
72 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Statement of financial position
As at 30 September 201 5
Group Company
Notes
2015
£m 
2014
£m
2015
£m 
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 16 8.5 6.9 – –
Intangible assets 17 27.0 11.5 – –
Investments accounted for using the equity method 19 1.1 1.4 – –
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 19 – – 16.1 13.8
Deferred tax asset 13 21.9 16.3 – –
Tax receivable 13 0.4 – – –
Trade and other receivables 21 0.9 1.8 – –
59.8 37.9 16.1 13.8
Current assets
Inventories 20 5.3 4.1 – –
Trade and other receivables 21 11.5 11.1 213.7 214.5
Current tax receivable 13 4.2 3.4 – –
Short-term deposits 22 0.6 42.8 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 23 23.6 46.1 0.1 1.1
45.2 107.5 213.8 215.6
Total assets 105.0 145.4 229.9 229.4
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 24 (14.2) (17.6) (1.1) (4.4)
Derivative financial instruments 26 (0.1) – – –
(14.3) (17.6) (1.1) (4.4)
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 25 (3.0) – – –
Total liabilities (17.3) (17.6) (1.1) (4.4)
Net assets 87.7 127.8 228.8 225.0
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
Equity share capital 27 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4
Share premium 222.9 222.7 222.9 222.7
Other reserves 35.2 35.0 7.5 7.5
Retained earnings (179.8) (139.3) (11.0) (14.6)
Total equity 87.7 127.8 228.8 225.0
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements on pages 72 to 108 were 
approved by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer
73 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Other reserves
Equity 
share
 capital 
£m
Share
premium 
£m
Equity
component 
of
convertible
loan notes 
£m
Capital
reserve 
£m
Merger
 reserve 
£m
Currency
translation
reserve 
£m
Retained
earnings 
£m
Total
equity 
£m
At 1 October 2013 6.8 94.8 9.7 – 29.3 (0.3) (95.8) 44.5
Loss for the year – – – – – – (48.2) (48.2)
Other comprehensive expense – – – – – (1.5) – (1.5)
Total comprehensive expense  
for the year
– – – – – (1.5) (48.2) (49.7)
Shares issued (net of issue costs) 2.0 106.4 – – – – – 108.4
Share-based payment transactions – – – – – – 2.5 2.5
Conversion of convertible bond 0.6 21.5 (9.7) 7.5 – – 2.2 22.1
Total transactions with owners, 
recognised directly in equity
2.6 127.9 (9.7) 7.5 – – 4.7 133.0
Balance at 1 October 2014 9.4 222.7 – 7.5 29.3 (1.8) (139.3) 127.8
Loss for the year – – – – – – (42.8) (42.8)
Other comprehensive income – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year
– – – – – 0.2 (42.8) (42.6)
Shares issued – 0.2 – – – – – 0.2
Share-based payment transactions – – – – – – 2.3 2.3
Total transactions with owners, 
recognised directly in equity
– 0.2 – – – – 2.3 2.5
Balance at 30 September 2015 9.4 222.9 – 7.5 29.3 (1.6) (179.8) 87.7
Other reserves
The balance classified as merger reserve relates to the acquisitions of Advanced Power Sources Limited and Intelligent Energy Limited.  
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.
In the prior year a convertible bond was converted into ordinary shares. The realised element of the equity component of the convertible 
loan notes was transferred to retained earnings with the residual amount held in the capital reserve.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 201 5
74 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Other reserves
Equity 
share
 capital 
£m
Share
premium 
£m
Equity
component 
of
convertible
loan notes 
£m
Capital
reserve 
£m
Retained
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 October 2013 6.8 94.8 9.7 – (9.7) 101.6
Loss for the year – – – – (9.7) (9.7)
Total comprehensive expense  
for the year
– – – – (9.7) (9.7)
Shares issued (net of issue costs) 2.0 106.4 – – – 108.4
Share-based payment transactions – – – – 2.6 2.6
Conversion of convertible bond 0.6 21.5 (9.7) 7.5 2.2 22.1
Total transactions with owners,  
recognised directly in equity
2.6 127.9 (9.7) 7.5 4.8 133.1
Balance at 1 October 2014 9.4 222.7 – 7.5 (14.6) 225.0
Profit for the year – – – – 1.3 1.3
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 1.3 1.3
Shares issued – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Share-based payment transactions – – – – 2.3 2.3
Total transactions with owners,  
recognised directly in equity
– 0.2 – – 2.3 2.5
Balance at 30 September 2015 9.4 222.9 – 7.5 (11.0) 228.8
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 201 5
75 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Group Company
Notes
2015
£m 
2014
£m
2015
£m 
2014
£m
Operating activities
(Loss)/profit before tax (54.4) (59.6) 1.3 (10.1)
Net financing expense 1.3 4.0 – 4.3
Gain on disposal of joint venture (1.5) (1.0) (1.5) (1.0)
Share of joint venture losses 0.8 1.0 – –
Operating loss (53.8) (55.6) (0.2) (6.8)
Adjustment for: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 3.2 2.4 – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 17 1.8 0.7 – –
Equity settled share-based payments 29 2.3 2.6 – –
Foreign exchange loss on operating activities – 0.1 – –
Working capital adjustments:
Increase in inventories (1.2) (2.6) – –
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (0.4) (6.2) 0.8 (107.0)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (3.4) 7.9 (3.3) 2.5
Taxation received 4.8 3.8 – –
Net cash outflow from operating activities (46.7) (46.9) (2.7) (111.3)
Investing activities 
Net interest received 0.1 0.3 – –
Proceeds on disposal of joint venture 1.5 1.1 1.5 1.1
Sale/(purchase) of short-term deposits 42.2 (42.8) – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (4.8) (4.0) – –
Purchase of intangible assets 17 (14.6) (2.8) – –
Investment in joint venture 19 (0.5) - – –
Term loan granted – (1.8) – –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 23.9 (50.0) 1.5 1.1
Financing activities 
Issue of ordinary share capital 27 0.2 108.4 0.2 108.4
Issue of convertible loan notes – 3.0 – 2.9
Net cash inflow from financing activities 0.2 111.4 0.2 111.3
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (22.6) 14.5 (1.0) 1.1
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.1 – – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 23 46.1 31.6 1.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 23 23.6 46.1 0.1 1.1
Statement of cash flows
for the year ended 30 September 201 5
76 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 1. Authorisation of financial statements 
The financial statements of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the year ended 30 September 2015 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2015 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Board’s 
behalf by P Heiden and J Maguire. Intelligent Energy Holdings plc is a listed public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England 
and Wales. 
2. Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under a “going concern” basis, in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group and Parent Company for the year 
ended 30 September 2015 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 
September 2015 and have, unless stated otherwise, been applied consistently and to all periods presented in these financial statements. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except where measurement of balance at fair value is required,  
as explained below.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds except when 
otherwise indicated. 
No separate income statement is presented for Intelligent Energy Holdings plc as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
2.1 Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position, are set out in the Chief 
Executive’s review section of the Strategic report on page 09. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are 
described in the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 32 to 34. In addition, note 26 to the financial statements include the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments;  
and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its cash resources. The current position of the Group and its 
development plans result in cash consumption for the foreseeable future.
As noted in the Chief Executive’s review section of the Strategic report, the business has plans for significant expansion. The cash balance 
at the year end of £24.2 million is not sufficient to allow the Company to implement its business plan in full without additional funding.  
As previously announced, the Group intends to raise additional funds through a two tier process. Both transactions are consistent with  
the Group’s objective of protecting existing shareholders. Firstly, this involves a proposed issue of a convertible instrument to industrial 
partners. Secondly, there is significant value in aspects of the Group’s DP&G Indian operations and therefore Jefferies, the investment bank, 
has been appointed to assist the Group in realising some of this value to finance its current and future growth plans. As a result the Board 
has sufficient reason to believe that additional funding will be forthcoming within the required time frame to support the planned 
expansion of the business. 
The Board has also carefully considered the Company’s position in the event that the additional financing to fund the planned expansion  
is not forthcoming. In that scenario, the Board is satisfied that it retains sufficient discretion over costs linked to expansion plans, and the 
ability to manage the business in a way which allows it to fulfil its appropriate commitments and settle its obligations as they fall due. It is 
on this basis that the Directors have formed their opinion that the Company remains a going concern and the financial statements should 
be, and have been, drawn up on that basis.
3. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
3.1. New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group
The following standards and amendments are applicable to the Group and have been adopted as they are mandatory for the year ending 
30 September 2015:
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: This new standard outlines the requirements for the preparation and presentation of 
consolidated financial statements, requiring entities to consolidate entities it controls. Control requires exposure to rights to variable returns 
and the ability to affect those returns through power over an investee. The adoption of this standard has had no significant impact.
• IFRS 1 1 Joint Arrangements: This new standard outlines the accounting by entities that jointly control an arrangement. Joint control 
involves the contractual agreed sharing of control and arrangements subject to joint control are classified as either a joint venture 
(representing a share of net assets and equity accounted) or a joint operation (representing rights to assets and obligations for liabilities, 
accounted for accordingly). The adoption of this standard has had no significant impact.
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: This is a consolidated disclosure standard requiring a wide range of disclosures about  
an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated “structured entities”. Disclosures are presented  
in note 19 of these financial statements.
Notes to the annual financial statements
77 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 3. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures continued
• Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets: The amendments reverse the 
unintended requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose the recoverable amount of every cash-generating unit to which 
significant goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated. Under the amendments, recoverable amount is required to be 
disclosed only when an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed. The adoption of this amendment has had no significant impact.
• Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities. This amendment clarifies that 
the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event. It must also be legally enforceable for all counterparties in the normal course  
of business, as well as in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy. The adoption of this amendment has had no significant impact.
• Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: Applies IFRS 5 to an investment or portion of an investment in  
an associate or a joint venture that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. It also does not require re-measurement of the 
retained interest in the investment upon cessation of significant influence or joint control. The adoption of this amendment has had  
no significant impact.
3.2. New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 October 
2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant 
effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group except the following set out below:
• IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The 
complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of 
financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories 
for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The basis of 
classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in 
equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present 
changes in fair value in other comprehensive income not subsequently recycled to profit and loss. There is now a new expected credit 
losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial liabilities there were no changes to 
classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities 
designated at fair value through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge 
effectiveness tests. It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to 
be the same as the one management actually use for risk management purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is still required but 
is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39. The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
Early adoption is permitted subject to EU endorsement. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 9.
• IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an 
entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to 
direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 1 1 Construction contracts 
and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is 
permitted subject to EU endorsement. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
4. Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc and the entities it controls (its 
subsidiaries) and equity account for the Group’s interest in associate and joint ventures drawn up to 30 September each year. Subsidiaries 
are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated 
until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to 
obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible 
potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company and are based on consistent 
accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
4.1 Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which the Group and one or more third parties have joint control. These joint arrangements 
are in turn classified as:
• Joint ventures whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its 
liabilities; and
• Joint operations whereby the Group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity. 
Notes to the annual financial statements continued
78 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Application of the equity method to associates and joint ventures
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the 
date that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases. When the Group’s 
share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of 
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of an investee.
Joint operations
Where the Group is a party to a joint operation, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the joint operation’s 
assets and liabilities, as well as the Group’s share of the entity’s profit or loss and other comprehensive income, on a line-by-line basis.
5. Significant accounting estimates and judgements
5.1 Significant accounting estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. 
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. The key sources of estimation uncertainty are  
as follows:
5.1.1 Contract revenues
The Group measures revenues on provision of engineering services contracts using the stage of completion method, to ascertain the 
appropriate revenue to recognise during a contract. Estimating the stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract cost 
incurred as a percentage of total estimated cost.
5.1.2 Share-based payments
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the 
date at which they are granted and the cost of cash-settled share awards with employees by reference to fair value. Estimating fair value 
requires the determination of the most appropriate valuation model for a grant of equity instruments, which is dependent on the terms 
and conditions of the grant. This also requires determining the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life 
of the option, volatility, forfeiture and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. Subsequent revaluation of the cash-settled 
liability requires further estimation of fair value at settlement or reporting date. The assumptions and models used are disclosed in note 29.
5.1.3 Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each reporting date. Goodwill is tested  
for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. Other non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there 
are indicators that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When value in use calculations are undertaken, management must 
estimate the expected future cash flows from the asset or cash-generating unit and choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
the present value of those cash flows. Further details are given in note 18.
5.1.4 Deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets relating to the carry forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits requires the assessment  
of the extent to which it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses and tax credits can be 
utilised. Given the history of tax losses of the Group, it is required that there is convincing other evidence that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised. This requires judgement on the part of the Directors. 
The Directors have therefore assessed whether, in their opinion, the recovery of the deferred tax assets is probable, and whether 
convincing evidence exists to justify this assessment. This assessment is based on the forecasts for the business, which are in turn based in 
part on known advances in the commercial viability of the Group’s businesses. These forecasts indicate sufficient future UK taxable profits 
to utilise the accumulated tax losses. Accordingly the Directors have concluded that the utilisation of the accumulated tax losses is both 
probable and supported by convincing evidence. 
5.1.5 Fair value of convertible loan notes
The Group has issued convertible loan notes which have been converted to equity share capital during the prior year. These convertible 
loan notes comprise both a liability and an equity element. The equity element is calculated as the net proceeds receivable after deducting 
the liability element of the convertible loan notes.
The liability element of the convertible loan notes is calculated by discounting the cash flows of the instruments at an interest rate that 
would be available in the market for an equivalent financial liability. The estimation of this interest rate requires judgement on the part  
of the Directors. 
79 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
5. Significant accounting estimates and judgements continued
5.1.6 Development costs 
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy in note 6.7 . Initial capitalisation of costs is based on 
management’s judgement that technological and economical feasibility is confirmed. In determining the amounts to be capitalised, 
management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the assets, discount rates to be applied and the 
expected period of benefits. The Directors have specifically assessed the position of the development of the 305 modular fuel cell systems 
deployed to India during the financial year with reference to the timing of a first commercial order. During the year the Group’s DP&G 
business in India has deployed 305 modular fuel cell systems on telecom tower sites where energy management services are being 
provided. This is considered to be the first commercial customer order for the product and therefore development costs of the 305 
modular fuel cell systems have been recognised within intangible assets. The carrying amount of capitalised development costs at the  
end of the year is £2.0 million (2014: £nil).
5.1.7 Disposals of joint ventures and associates
Any deferred consideration arising from the sale of a joint venture or associate, where dependant on unknown future events, will require 
significant judgement from management to estimate whether the conditions of the consideration will be met.
5.2 Significant judgements in applying the accounting policies
5.2.1 Principal versus agent
The Directors have assessed the arrangements in place with customers for power management services in the DP&G business and 
determined that the Group is acting as principal in all such arrangements. The assessment has considered the exposure of the Group to  
the risks and rewards associated with selling the goods and services, including the responsibility for the services, the latitude in 
establishing prices charged to the customer, the credit risk for amounts receivable from the customer and the arrangement for settlement 
of consideration due from the customer. This assessment confirms that the Group is acting on its own account in contracting with its 
customers in return for the consideration receivable and therefore all consideration receivable for the goods and services supplied to the 
customer is recognised as revenue.
5.2.2 Classification of joint arrangements
The classification of the Group’s joint arrangements has been assessed and it has been determined that all such arrangements are joint 
ventures. The assessment has considered the rights and obligations on the Group which arise from the contractual arrangements with the 
joint arrangement partner and joint arrangement vehicle. It has been assessed that all such agreements grant the Group rights to the joint 
arrangement’s net assets. This conclusion is based on: each arrangement being formed through a separate legal entity; the terms of the 
contractual agreements with the other joint arrangement partners, which do not change the rights and obligations established by the 
legal entity; and the output is supplied to other parties and not solely the joint venture parties. 
6. Summary of significant accounting policies
The accounting policies which follow set out the significant policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2015.
6.1 Revenue recognition
The Group generates revenues principally through the sale of hydrogen fuel cell and hydrogen generation products (sale of goods),  
the provision of power generation and power management services (power management), consultancy for technology and product 
advancement (provision of engineering services) and the sale of access to our intellectual property. Revenue is recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and receivable revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is 
measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods and services supplied, 
stated net of discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes or duty. The following criteria must also be met before revenue  
is recognised:
Provision of engineering services
Consultancy for technology and product advancement revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. Stage of completion 
is measured by reference to the cost of labour hours and materials incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated cost of labour hours 
and materials for each contract. Past experience has shown costs incurred to be the best measure of progress. Where the contract outcome 
cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses recognised are recoverable. When contracts are 
extended or combined the total consideration receivable is merged, and the revenue recognised over the full revised contract.
Power management
Power management revenue represents the amounts earned from the supply of power management services and excludes sales taxes. 
Revenue is recognised as the service is delivered in accordance with the contractual arrangements. Revenue is accrued or deferred at the 
statement of financial position date depending on the date of the most recent invoice issued and the contractual terms.
Access to intellectual property 
Where elements of contract revenue can be separately identifiable, these revenues are spread across the substantive delivery period for 
those elements. Where multiple element contracts are entered into and the constituent parts do not stand alone, all revenues are spread 
over the period of the contract.
80 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Sale of goods
Fuel cell and hydrogen generation product revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have 
passed to the buyer, usually on dispatch of the goods.
Public body funded work 
Project work is undertaken for public bodies where such work is of benefit to the Group’s ongoing research and development activities. 
The Group measures revenues on such contracts using the stage of completion method, to ascertain the appropriate revenue to recognise 
during a contract. The stage of completion is measured by reference to the cost incurred as a percentage of total estimated cost.
6.2 Interest in joint ventures
The Group has a contractual agreement with Scottish and Southern Energy plc, which represents a joint venture, through another entity, 
IE-CHP (UK & Eire) Limited. The Group has a contractual agreement with Suzuki Motor Corporation, which represents a joint venture, through 
another entity, SMILE FC System Corporation, a company incorporated in Japan. The Group has a contractual agreement with Hydro Industries 
Limited, which represents a joint venture, through another entity, Aquapurum Private Limited, a company incorporated in India.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying 
amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. Financial 
statements of the joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring 
the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group; to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to 
reflect impairment losses where appropriate. Adjustments are also made in the Group’s financial statements to eliminate the Group’s share 
of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures. The Group ceases to use the equity method on 
the date from which it no longer has joint control over or significant influence in the joint venture. 
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and 
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has legal or constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of an investee.
6.3 Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The cost of acquisition is the consideration given in 
exchange for the identifiable net assets. This consideration includes any cash paid plus the fair value at the date of exchange of assets 
given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group. The acquired net assets are initially recognised at fair 
value. Where the Group does not acquire 100 per cent ownership of the acquired company, a non-controlling interest is recorded as the 
minority’s proportion of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Any adjustment to the fair values is recognised within 12 months of the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisition comprises the excess  
of the fair value of the consideration for investments in subsidiaries over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill 
and fair value adjustments are recorded as assets and liabilities of the acquired company for the purposes of consolidation and are 
recorded in the local currency of that company. The costs of integrating and reorganising acquired businesses are charged to the post-
acquisition income statement.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s goodwill is reviewed on an annual basis at each statement of 
financial position date, or more frequently if there is an indication that the goodwill is impaired, to determine whether events or changes  
in circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. An impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
6.4 Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures
In its separate financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost. The investment is 
reviewed on an annual basis to determine whether the carrying amount is recoverable. In the event that the carrying amount is 
irrecoverable, provision is made to reduce the amount of the investment to the recoverable amount.
6.5 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to 
making the asset capable of operating as intended including own labour costs where used. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant 
and equipment, other than land, on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, to its residual value as follows:
• plant, machinery and equipment: 2 to 5 years
• office equipment, fixtures and fittings: 3 to 5 years
Depreciation commences when the asset is fully constructed and operational with no depreciation charged on assets under the course  
of construction.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual values  
are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively. An item of property, plant and equipment is 
derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or 
loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
81 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 6. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
6.6 Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit. 
As set out in note 18, in assessing the cash flows of one of the Group’s segments, Platform Support, an estimate is made of the cash flows 
that are considered to be generated as a result of an imputed charge for the access to and utilisation of the technology and intellectual 
property by the external facing segments. These cash flows are not allocated in the segmental reporting note.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement. An assessment is made at each reporting date as to 
whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication 
exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying 
amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in 
the income statement unless the asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. After 
such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, 
on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
6.7 Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business 
combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be 
measured reliably. Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected 
useful lives as follows:
• Patents: 15 to 20 years.
• Development expenditure: 5 to 15 years.
• Software: 3 to 5 years.
Amortisation commences when the asset is fully constructed and operational with no amortisation charged on assets under the course  
of construction.
Patents
Patents have been granted on intellectual property rights for a period of 15 to 20 years by the relevant government agencies in countries 
where patents are applied for. Each patent application is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. The carrying values of patents are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Patent renewal fees are taken to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income statement in the year in which 
it is incurred (research costs are expensed as incurred). Expenditure relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects is 
recognised as an intangible asset only after all the following criteria are met: the project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability  
can be demonstrated; the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been 
confirmed; and the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established. Development expenditure for  
a new product which represents an entry into a new market is only recognised as an intangible asset from after the date that a first 
commercial customer order is received, as in the opinion of the Directors it is not until this time that commercial viability is established.
During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over 
the period of expected future sales. During the period in which the assets are not yet in use they are tested for impairment annually.
Research and development costs recognised as an expense in the income statement have been disclosed separately below gross profit,  
as these costs are not directly related to sales activity.
Notes to the annual financial statements continued
82 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 6.8 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present 
location and condition, as follows:
• Raw materials and goods for resale: purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
• Work in progress and finished goods: cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity, 
excluding borrowing costs.
• Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. 
Obsolete and defective inventory is impaired to its estimated recoverable amount. 
6.9 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and 
recoverable amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at discounted cost. Provision is made when there  
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is 
assessed as being less than likely.
6.10 Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at cost. Trade payables are non-interest bearing.
6.11 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and 
cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
The Group considers all bank deposits with original maturity dates of greater than three months and maturing in less than one year to be 
short-term deposits.
6.12 Financial assets
The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired and is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They 
are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the statement of financial position date. These are classified 
as non-current assets. “Accounts receivable”, “cash and cash equivalents” and “short-term deposits” are classified as “Loans and receivables”.
Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate basis.
6.13 Financial liabilities
Initial recognition and measurement
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings,  
or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its 
financial liabilities at initial recognition. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
effective interest rate method (EIR) amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fee or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance cost in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Compound financial instruments
Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible loan notes denominated in Sterling that can be converted to 
ordinary shares at the option of the holder, when the number of shares to be issued is fixed and does not vary with changes in fair value.
The liability component of compound financial instruments is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an 
equity conversion option. The equity component is initially recognised at the difference between the fair value of the compound financial 
instruments as a whole and the fair value of the liability component. Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability 
and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. The equity component of a compound financial instrument is not re-measured subsequent to initial recognition 
except on conversion or expiry.
83 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 6. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Interest related to the financial liability is recognised in the income statement. On conversion, the financial liability is reclassified to equity 
and no gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
6.14 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown  
in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
6.15 Share-based payments
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby 
employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (“equity-settled transactions”) and in the form of cash or other assets 
for amounts based on the price of the Company’s equity instruments (“cash-settled transactions”).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted, 
and is recognised as an expense in the income statement over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the award. The fair value is determined using appropriate valuation models relevant to the structure  
of the scheme and include the Black-Scholes model and the Monte-Carlo model, further details of which are given in note 29. 
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance conditions, other than performance conditions 
linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an 
employee to become fully entitled to an award, like market performance conditions, are taken into account in determining the grant date 
fair value.
The grant-date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a 
corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance 
conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that  
meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting 
conditions, the grant-date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for 
differences between expected and actual outcomes.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement 
in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding 
entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost 
based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over 
the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the original award and the fair value 
of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative. 
For cash-settled share awards the services received from employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the income statement  
as an expense over the vesting period with recognition of a corresponding liability. The fair value of the liability is re-measured at each 
reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair values recognised in the income statement.
6.16 Leases
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases  
and rentals payable are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
6.17 Foreign currency translation
The Group and Parent Company financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. 
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured 
using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency spot 
rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date. All differences are taken to the income statement. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial 
position date. Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses  
are translated at the rate on the date of the transactions). The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of 
equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is 
recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Notes to the annual financial statements continued
84 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 6.18 Provisions
Provision for contingent consideration is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured as the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The increase in the 
provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
6.19 Segment reporting
The Group is organised into four business segments, three external facing segments namely Automotive (“Motive”), Consumer Electronics 
(“CE”), Distributed Power & Generation (“D&PG”) and one internal facing segment, Platform Support. This is based upon the Group’s 
internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is provided 
with financial information. The Directors believe that the CODM is the Board of Directors.
Segment revenue and segment EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and share of joint venture results) are the 
revenue and profitability measures provided to the CODM and used in monitoring and managing performance of each segment.
Assets and liabilities are not reported by business segments as they are currently managed and reported on a Group basis, other than 
goodwill which is allocated to the Platform Support segment. 
6.19 Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on 
tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. Deferred income tax is recognised 
on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, 
with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in  
a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;  
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and deferred 
income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on 
an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates 
and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date. Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity  
if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Research and development tax credit
Claims for tax credits in respect of research and development expenditure incurred are recognised when amounts due can be estimated 
with a high level of certainty.
6.20 Finance Bill 2013 research and development “above the line” credit
The Group is claiming research and development expenditure credits on qualifying costs under the legislation in the Finance Bill 2013.  
The credit is recognised in cost of sales in the period in which the related costs for which the credit is intended to compensate are incurred.
6.21 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates a Defined Contribution scheme. This is a pension scheme that has an agreed contribution rate from the employee  
and employer. Contributions are known and agreed in advance. The scheme consists of a grouping of individual pension contracts. Each 
employee owns their own contract, which benefits from the discount available to the Group, in which they can plan and save towards an 
optimum pension income in their retirement.
85 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
7 . Operating segments
The Group complies with IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires operating segments to be identified and reported upon that are 
consistent with the level at which results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Chief Operating 
Decision Maker for the Group is the Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Board of Directors. Information on the divisions is the primary basis of 
information reported to the Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Board of Directors. The performance of the divisions is assessed on a non-IFRS 
measure being EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and share of joint venture results).
The Group is strategically organised as three externally facing business units: Motive, which focuses on fuel cell technology application in vehicles, 
Distributed Power and Generation, which focuses on the provision of power and management services, and Consumer Electronics, which focuses 
on the mass market application of portable energy and miniaturisation of fuel cell technology. These business units are supported by Platform 
Support, which undertakes the Group’s research and development activities and also provides back office support functions. 
2015
Consumer 
Electronics
Distributed 
Power & 
Generation Motive
Platform 
Support Group
Revenue from external sales 0.1 72.2 5.9 – 78.2
EBITDA (Segment profit measure) (8.6) (2.5) (0.3) (37.4) (48.8)
Depreciation and amortisation (5.0)
Operating loss (53.8)
Net financing cost (1.3)
Share of loss of joint ventures (0.8)
Gain on disposal of joint venture 1.5
Loss before tax (54.4)
Income tax 11.6
Loss for the year (42.8)
2014
Consumer 
Electronics
Distributed 
Power & 
Generation Motive
Platform 
Support Group
Revenue from external sales – 5.0 8.6 – 13.6
EBITDA (Segment profit measure) (10.1) (4.4) 0.5 (38.4) (52.4)
Depreciation and amortisation (3.2)
Operating loss (55.6)
Net financing cost (4.0)
Share of loss of joint ventures (1.0)
Gain on disposal of joint venture 1.0
Loss before tax (59.6)
Income tax 11.4
Loss for the year (48.2)
Major customers
One customer represented in excess of 10 per cent of the Group’s total revenue during the year (2014: three customers). Distributed Power 
& Generation revenue includes £71.9 million (2014: £4.9 million) from a single customer. Motive segment revenue in 2014 included revenue 
of £4.3 million and £2.9 million from two separate customers.
86 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Geographical information
The Group’s country of domicile is the United Kingdom. Revenues are attributed to customers based on the customer’s location.
Revenue from external sales
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
United Kingdom 0.1 0.1
Europe, Middle East and Africa (‘EMEA’) 0.8 3.1
India 72.2 4.9
Asia-Pacific 5.1 5.5
78.2 13.6
The total non-current assets other than deferred tax assets located in the UK is £34.2 million (2014: £17 .1 million) and the total of such 
non-current assets located in other countries is £3.7 million (2014: £4.4 million).
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Provision of engineering services 5.9 8.6
Power management 72.2 4.9
Sale of goods 0.1 0.1
78.2 13.6
Adjusted EBITDA
The Company uses adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, share of joint venture results, equity 
fundraising costs and IFRS 2 share-based payment charges) as an indicator of trading profitability and a proxy for operating cashflow, 
before any cash movements relating to investment, tax funding and changes in working capital. It is not an IFRS measure, and not 
therefore shown in the Group income statement.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
EBITDA (48.8) (52.4)
Share-based payment charge 2.3 6.0
Equity fundraising cost 0.3 7.0
Adjusted EBITDA (46.2) (39.4)
87 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
8. Expenses by nature
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cost of fuel 70.8 3.4
Staff costs (note 10) 27.3 22.6
Consultancy, contractors and outsourced services 7.9 6.3
Depreciation and amortisation 5.0 3.2
Facilities and services 4.0 3.0
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 2.9 2.5
Legal and professional costs 2.7 1.5
Travel and subsistence 2.6 2.7
Share-based payments 2.3 6.0
Materials and consumables used for research and development 2.2 6.1
Operating lease charge 1.9 1.3
Inventory write-down 1.5 1.6
Marketing 1.2 1.5
Equity fundraising costs 0.3 7.0
Research and development expenditure credit (0.4) (0.7)
Capitalised staff costs (1.7) (0.3)
Other expenses 1.5 1.5
Total cost of sales, research and development costs,  
operating costs and administration costs
132.0 69.2
9. Auditor’s remuneration
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Auditor’s remuneration:
 - Audit of the Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1
Other services:
 - Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation – –
 - Audit of associates – –
 - Audit-related assurance service – half year review – 0.1
 - Other assurance services – –
 - Due diligence services – Initial public offering/fundraising 0.1 0.4
0.2 0.6
10. Employees and Directors’ emoluments
(a) Employee benefit expense 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 23.8 18.9
Social security costs 2.9 2.9
Pension contributions 0.6 0.8
Staff costs 27.3 22.6
Equity settled share-based payments (note 29) 2.3 2.6
Cash settled share-based payments (note 29) – 3.4
Total employee benefit expense 29.6 28.6
88 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc The monthly average number of employees, including Directors, during the year was as follows:
2015 2014
Research and development 105 104
Operations and application engineering 215 175
Corporate and commercial 116 75
436 354
(b) Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company are set out below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Aggregate emoluments 1.3 1.0
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans 2.6 2.6
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes – –
3.9 3.6
Two Directors (2014: two) are accruing benefits under a company money purchase pension scheme.
Detailed disclosures of Directors’ emoluments are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 63 and details of Directors’ 
interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 66 and 67 which form part of the financial statements. 
1 1. Finance income and cost
(a). Finance income
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Interest receivable 0.4 0.3
(b). Finance cost
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Interest payable on bank overdrafts 0.2 –
Interest payable on convertible loan notes – 3.0
Funds raised not received – 0.7
Other finance costs 1.0 0.6
Fair value charge on derivative financial liability 0.1 –
Unwinding of discount on provisions 0.4 –
1.7 4.3
Other finance costs for the current year relates to impairment of a financial asset. 
12. Gain on disposal of joint venture
The Company disposed of its investment in IE LEV Limited on 28 February 2014 with the recognition of a gain of £1.0 million in the year 
ended 30 September 2014. Deferred contingent consideration of £1.5 million from the sale of the investment was received during the 
current year which was previously recognised at a fair value of £nil due to the uncertainty associated with this amount. This has been 
recognised as a gain in the current year. In total a gain of £2.5 million has been realised on the sale of the investment. 
89 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
13. Income tax
(a) Tax (credited)/charged in the consolidated income statement 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current income tax:
Research and development tax credit in respect of the current year (4.6) (3.4)
Foreign income tax: 0.2 –
Research and development tax credit in respect of prior years (1.6) (0.4)
Total current income tax (6.0) (3.8)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (6.8) (7.5)
Adjustments to prior years 1.2 (0.1)
Total deferred tax (5.6) (7.6)
Income tax credit reported in the consolidated income statement (11.6) (11.4)
Income tax credited directly to equity during the year of £nil arose on convertible loan notes (2014: £2.1 million).
(b) Factors affecting current tax credit
The tax assessed on the loss before tax for the year is lower (2014: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.5 per cent 
(2014: 22 per cent). The differences are reconciled below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Loss before tax (54.4) (59.6)
Loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.5% (2014: 22%) (11.2) (13.1)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.7 3.2
Non-taxable income (0.3) (0.2)
R&D enhanced super deduction net of research and development tax credit in respect of current year (1.8) (0.8)
Foreign income tax 0.2 –
Effect of share of loss of equity-accounted investees 0.2 0.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) (0.5)
Current year losses net of recognition of tax effect of previously unrecognised tax losses 1.0 (0.2)
(11.6) (11.4)
(c) Deferred tax
Group 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Accelerated capital allowances – – (1.3) (1.2) (1.3) (1.2)
Other timing differences 0.7 0.9 – – 0.7 0.9
Tax losses carried forward 22.5 16.6 – – 22.5 16.6
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 23.2 17.5 (1.3) (1.2) 21.9 16.3
Offset (1.3) (1.2) 1.3 1.2 – –
21.9 16.3 – – 21.9 16.3
90 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Movement in deferred tax balances during the year:
Balance at 
beginning of 
year
£m
Recognised in 
income 
statement
£m
Recognised in 
equity
£m
Balance at end 
of year
£m
2015
Accelerated capital allowances (1.2) (0.1) – (1.3)
Other timing differences 0.9 (0.2) – 0.7
Tax losses carried forward 16.6 5.9 – 22.5
Net deferred tax asset 16.3 5.6 – 21.9
2014
Accelerated capital allowances (0.7) (0.5) – (1.2)
Other timing differences (2.6) 1.4 2.1 0.9
Tax losses carried forward 9.8 6.8 – 16.6
Net deferred tax asset 6.5 7.7 2.1 16.3
The unrecognised deferred tax asset comprises the following:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Losses 2.0 1.3
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 2.0 1.3
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried-forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through 
future taxable profits is probable. This is supported by the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s future earnings on an entity basis. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised for tax losses in subsidiaries where they are not expected to generate future taxable income.
There are no temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
Company 
There are no recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at 30 September 2015 or 30 September 2014.
Movement in deferred tax balances during the year:
Balance at 
beginning of 
year
£m
Recognised in 
income 
statement
£m
Recognised in 
equity
£m
Balance at end 
of year
£m
2015
Other timing differences – – – –
Net deferred tax asset – – – –
2014
Other timing differences (2.6) 0.5 2.1 –
Net deferred tax asset (2.6) 0.5 2.1 –
(d) Factors which may affect future tax charges
The trading losses referred to above will be available for offset against future profits of the same trade, assuming there is no major change 
in the trade’s nature or conduct. The Group will continue to claim research and development tax relief where it is eligible to do so. Future 
tax charges will be affected by government changes to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
A reduction in the rate to 20 per cent (effective from 1 April 2015) was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities at 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2015 have been recognised at the 20 per cent tax rate.
On 8 July 2015, the Chancellor announced that the rate of corporation tax will decrease to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent 
from 1 April 2020. As these tax rates were not substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date, the rate reduction is not yet 
reflected in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 12.
The future rate change to 18 per cent is estimated to give rise to a reduction in the Group’s deferred tax asset of £2.2m during the next financial year, 
with full amount being charged to the income statement. The actual impact will be dependent on the Group’s deferred tax position at that time.
91 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
14. Earnings per share
Earnings per share is based on the Group’s profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and a weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the year.
2015 2014
Earnings per share
 - Basic (pence) (22.7) (31.4)
 - Diluted (pence) (22.7) (31.4)
Loss for the financial year (£ million) (42.8) (48.2)
Weighted average number of shares used:
 - Issued ordinary shares at beginning of year 188,112,899 136,129,653
 - Effect of ordinary shares issued during the year 60,871 17,243,998
Basic weighted average number of shares 188,173,770 153,373,651
The impact of share options, share warrants and potential ordinary shares associated with the convertible loan notes has an antidilutive 
impact on the earnings per share. 
962,500 share options (2014: 3,780,600), 4,298,646 share awards (2014: 5,446,133), nil share warrants (2014: 6,655,460) and nil potential 
ordinary shares in relation to the convertible debt (2014: 15,689,840) were excluded from the weighted-average number of ordinary  
shares used in the calculation of the diluted earnings per share because their effect would have been antidilutive.
15. Profit/(loss) attributable to members of the Parent Company
The profit of the Parent Company for year ended 30 September 2015 was £1.3 million (2014: loss of £9.7 million).
16. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Office
equipment,
fixtures
and fittings
£m
Plant,
machinery
and
equipment
£m Total
Cost: 
At 1 October 2013 1.9 10.4 12.3
Additions 0.2 3.8 4.0
At 1 October 2014 2.1 14.2 16.3
Additions 0.4 4.4 4.8
At 30 September 2015 2.5 18.6 21.1
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 October 2013 1.1 5.9 7.0
Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 2.0 2.4
At 1 October 2014 1.5 7.9 9.4
Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 2.8 3.2
At 30 September 2015 1.9 10.7 12.6
Net book value:
At 30 September 2015 0.6 7.9 8.5
At 30 September 2014 0.6 6.3 6.9
At 1 October 2013 0.8 4.5 5.3
The cost of plant, machinery and equipment at 30 September 2015 includes £3.8 million (2014: £1.5 million) of assets in the course of construction.
The Company does not hold any property, plant and equipment.
92 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 17 . Intangible assets
Group
Development 
£m
Software 
£m
Patents 
£m
Goodwill 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost: 
At 1 October 2013 – 2.3 3.2 11.5 17.0
Additions – 0.8 2.0 – 2.8
At 1 October 2014 – 3.1 5.2 11.5 19.8
Additions 2.0 1.0 14.3 – 17.3
At 30 September 2015 2.0 4.1 19.5 11.5 37.1
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1 October 2013 – 1.1 0.9 5.6 7.6
Depreciation charge for the year – 0.4 0.3 – 0.7
At 1 October 2014 – 1.5 1.2 5.6 8.3
Depreciation charge for the year – 0.9 0.9 – 1.8
At 30 September 2015 – 2.4 2.1 5.6 10.1
Net book value:
At 30 September 2015 2.0 1.7 17.4 5.9 27.0
At 30 September 2014 – 1.6 4.0 5.9 11.5
At 1 October 2013 – 1.2 2.3 5.9 9.4
The cost of software at 30 September 2015 includes £nil (2014: £0.8 million) of assets in the course of construction.
The Group will continue to review the goodwill for impairment against the criteria set out in note 18.
The Company does not hold any intangible assets.
18. Impairment testing of goodwill and other assets
The carrying value of goodwill of £5.9 million (2014: £5.9 million) acquired through business combinations is tested annually for impairment. 
All other assets across the Group have a defined life and are amortised over a fixed period. The carrying value of these assets will be 
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. No such events 
or changes arose in the current or prior year. 
Allocation of goodwill
The statement of financial position of the Group is reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’), which is defined as being 
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc’s Board of Directors, at a group level. Assets and liabilities are not reported separately to the CODM on a 
segmental basis. 
The Group has evolved organically into four distinct reportable segments, being: three external facing divisions of DP&G, CE and Motive 
and the internal facing Platform Support division. The technology and intellectual property that supports the external facing segments 
and to which the goodwill is related is centrally monitored within the internal facing segment of Platform Support.
Allocation of all the carrying value of goodwill to Platform Support is therefore the approach which best reflects the reality of the business 
operating model of “design once, deploy many times”. Platform Support represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill  
is monitored for internal management purposes and is the CGU, at the lowest level, at which cash flows can be determined. 
Applying the approach detailed above, all of the Group’s goodwill of £5.9 million (2014: £5.9 million) is allocated to Platform Support and the 
recoverable amount has been measured based on a value-in-use calculation. The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were:
Period of projected cash flows
The Directors have used a 10-year forecast period with an assumed long-term growth rate after 2025 of 3 per cent per annum. Given the 
long-term nature of the Group’s business model it is considered appropriate to use a 10-year forecast period to assess the expected cash 
flows to be generated from the assets under review.
The Chief Executive’s review on page 09 sets out the outlook for the Group. The Directors expect to benefit from these opportunities to 
move towards positive cash flow. 
93 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
18. Impairment testing of goodwill and other assets continued
Allocation of cash flows
External revenue and cash inflows are generated from the external facing divisions of CE, DP&G and Motive. In assessing the cash flows of 
Platform Support an estimate is made of the cash flows that are considered to be generated as a result of an imputed charge for the access 
to, and utilisation of, the technology and intellectual property by the external facing segments. The technology and intellectual property 
primarily relates to air-cooled and evaporatively-cooled fuel cells.
Although these cash flows are not cross allocated in the segmental reporting note (note 7), management consider that it is necessary to 
include them in the estimation of the value in use of the Platform Support CGU. This is because “design once, deploy many times” is 
fundamental to the core principle of the Group’s business model. 
The amount of these revenues is estimated by considering the percentage of revenue that is forecast to be achieved by each external 
facing segment as a result of the combination with Platform Support. While these percentages are not derived from external sources of 
information, as no such sources exist, management utilise their considerable knowledge and experience of the industry in which they 
operate in estimating the amounts that would be re-charged if Platform Support were an independent entity. Among other things, they 
consider the number of additional licences that may be signed and the additional value that may be achieved per licence as a result of the 
fuel cells enhanced performance.
Discount rate
Platform Support future cash flows are discounted at a pre-tax rate of 14.6 per cent (2014: 16.3 per cent).
Research and development costs are based on the estimated investments required by the business to complete the research and 
development phases of each product line currently in progress. In each case senior management has estimated the total cost of labour, 
materials and capital expenditure necessary to start full production.
Market share assumptions have been estimated on a product application basis. The assumptions are based on forecast global demand 
trends. A view of the possible market share is then applied to the new technology introduction.
Raw material and production costs are based on estimated product cost curve structures. The cost curves are based on current raw 
material and production costs, synergies in mass production and the effect of learning during manufacture.
Conclusion
The Directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to Platform Support and the assumptions used in estimating its fair 
value are appropriate. 
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the Directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable change 
to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying 
value; similarly all other assets are supported on a value in use basis.
The carrying value of investments and receivables recognised in the Parent Company have been considered as part of the review and the 
Directors have confirmed that they are recoverable on a value in use basis. 
19. Investments
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Subsidiary undertakings – – 9.9 7.6
Joint ventures 1.1 1.4 6.2 6.2
1.1 1.4 16.1 13.8
Group Company
Investment in joint ventures £m £m
At 1 October 2013 3.8 6.2
Joint venture losses (1.0) –
Foreign exchange on translation (1.4) –
At 1 October 2014 1.4 6.2
Investment in Aquapurum Private Limited 0.5 –
Joint venture losses (0.8) –
At 30 September 2015 1.1 6.2
94 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc  Company
Investment in subsidiaries
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 October 7.6 1.6
Capital contribution arising from share-based payments 2.3 6.0
At 30 September 9.9 7.6
(a) Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the subsidiary undertakings at 30 September 2015 are as follows:
Subsidiary Country of incorporation 
Proportion of voting rights  
and shares held Nature of business 
Intelligent Energy 
Limited 
England and Wales 100% Development and commercialisation of fuel cell based 
energy solutions. 
Intelligent Energy India 
Private Limited 
India 100% To represent Intelligent Energy Holdings plc and its Group 
companies by promoting technical/financial collaborations, 
partnerships and joint ventures between the Group and 
companies in India. 
Essential Energy India 
Private Limited
India 100%
2
Trading company to support the Group’s activities in India.
Essential Energy 
(Operations) India 
Private Limited
India 100%
2
Trading company to support the Group’s activities in India.
E2 Energy Services 
Private Limited
India 100%
2
Trading company to support the Group’s activities in India.
Intelligent Energy Inc USA 100%
1
Fuel processing system development and partnering 
activities in the USA including marketing the Group’s fuel 
cell power systems in the USA. 
IE Japan Limited Japan 100% To represent Intelligent Energy Holdings plc and its Group 
companies by promoting technical/financial 
collaborations, partnerships and joint ventures between 
the Group and companies in Japan. 
Intelligent Energy 
Holdings (Singapore) 
PTE Limited
Singapore 100% Trading company to support the Group’s activities in Asia.
E2S Holdings PTE Singapore 100%
2
Trading company to support the Group’s activities in Asia.
IES Energy PTE Singapore 100%
2
Trading company to support the Group’s activities in Asia.
Advanced Power 
Sources Limited
England and Wales 100% Dormant.
Intelligent Energy 
(Proprietary) Limited
England and Wales 100% Dormant.
MESO Fuel Inc New Mexico, USA 100% Dormant.
1. Includes indirect holding of 100 per cent via Intelligent Energy Limited.
2. Includes indirect holding of 100 per cent via Intelligent Energy Holdings (Singapore) PTE Limited.
95 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
19. Investments continued
(b) Joint ventures
Details of joint ventures at 30 September 2015 are as follows:
Name of entity 
Place of business/Country  
of incorporation 
% of ownership  
interest Nature of the relationship
Measurement 
method
IE-CHP (UK & Eire) Limited United Kingdom 50% Jointly controlled entity whose principal activity is the 
development of combined heat and power fuel cell units 
with integrated natural gas reformers.
Equity
SMILE FC System 
Corporation 
Japan 50% Jointly controlled entity whose principal activity is the 
manufacture, evaluation and improvement of air-cooled 
fuel cells, to be supplied to the Suzuki Motor Corporation.
Equity
Aquapurum Water Private 
Limited (formerly Intelligent 
Pure Water T echnologies 
Private Limited)
India 50% Jointly controlled entity whose principal activity is to 
manufacture, develop and distribute water treatment 
and water purification systems relating to drinking water.
Equity
All joint ventures detailed above are private limited companies and there is no quoted market price available for their shares.
Aggregated summarised financial information of the jointly controlled entities at 30 September 2015:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Summarised balance sheets 
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.3
Other current assets 2.8 2.3
Total current assets 3.7 2.6
Non-current assets 0.4 0.8
Current liabilities (0.4) (0.4)
Non-current liabilities (1.2) –
Net assets 2.5 3.0
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Summarised statements of comprehensive income 
Revenue 0.5 –
Pre-tax loss from continuing operations (2.0) (2.7)
Income tax 0.1 (0.1)
Total comprehensive income (1.9) (2.6)
Reconciliation of aggregated summarised financial information:
Reconciliation of the aggregated summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the interest in the joint ventures:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Joint ventures’ net assets at 30 September 2.5 3.0
Interest in joint ventures at 50% 1.2 1.5
Unrealised profit adjustment (0.1) (0.1)
Investment in joint ventures 1.1 1.4
Due to the ongoing losses within IE-CHP (UK & Eire) Limited the investment remaining in both the Group and Company financial 
statements was impaired to £nil in the prior years. As a result the Group’s share of the loss for this entity is not recognised in the Group’s 
income statement for the current or prior year.
The Company is contractually committed to a further ¥500 million investment in SMILE FC System Corporation, expected in 2016.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Group’s interest in the joint ventures.
96 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 20. Inventories
Group
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Raw materials 2.8 3.5
Finished goods 2.5 0.6
5.3 4.1
The difference between purchase price or production cost of inventories and their replacement cost is not material. The cost of inventories 
recognised as an expense and included in the income statement amounted to £2.9 million (2014: £2.5 million). The Group recognised an inventory 
write-down of £1.5 million in the current year within research and development costs, split between £1.2 million within the Consumer Electronics 
segment and £0.3 million within the Platform Support segment (2014: £1.6 million within Consumer Electronics segment).
21. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 3.3 5.7 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (0.3) – – –
Trade receivables (net) 3.0 5.7 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 213.7 214.5
Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.4 0.1 – –
Other receivables 1.6 0.8 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 6.5 4.5 – –
Current trade and other receivables 11.5 11.1 213.7 214.5
Non-current: other receivables 1.9 1.8 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of non-current receivables (1.0) – – –
Non-current receivables (net) 0.9 1.8 – –
Total trade and other receivables 12.4 12.9 213.7 214.5
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days’ terms. 
Non-current other receivables at 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014 comprise a loan due from a third party with an effective 
interest rate of 18 per cent. 
Prepayments and accrued income includes accrued revenue relating to payments not yet received on long-term engineering services 
projects and power management contracts as follows.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 October 0.9 1.6
Increase/(decrease) in accrued revenue during the year 4.3 (0.7)
At 30 September 5.2 0.9
As at 30 September, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Total 
£m 
Not past due 
£m 
Less than  
30 days  
£m
30 to 60 days 
£m
Over 60 days
£m
2015 3.0 1.3 0.1 0.3 1.3
2014 5.7 4.5 1.2 – –
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by reference to historical information relating to 
counterparty default rates.
97 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
21. Trade and other receivables continued
As at 30 September the aged analysis of trade receivables impaired is as follows:
Total 
£m 
3–6 months
£m 
Over 6 months
£m
2015 0.3 0.3 –
2014 – – –
The movement on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 October – –
Provision for receivables impairment 1.3 –
At 30 September 1.3 –
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting 
date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The carrying values of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
UK Pound 4.4 6.2
Indian Rupee 8.0 6.7
12.4 12.9
Company
The carrying values of trade and other receivables equate to their fair value. Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are denominated 
in UK Pounds, are interest free and due on demand. No amounts are past due and are not impaired.
22. Short-term deposits
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term bank deposits 0.6 42.8 – –
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits at the year end was 0.45 per cent (2014: 0.87 per cent) and these deposits have an 
average maturity of 92 days (2014: 146 days). Short-term bank deposits include restricted bank deposits of £0.6 million at 30 September 
2015 (2015 £3.5 million), held as security in relation to trading activities in India and are pledged until the maturity of the associated 
contract in December 2015.
23. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Bank current account 23.6 46.1 0.1 1.1
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on bank deposit rates. Deposits are made for varying periods dependent on the cash 
requirements of the Group. The Group only deposits cash surpluses with major banks in line with the Group’s treasury policy.
24. Trade and other payables
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 1.3 6.1 – –
Other payables 0.5 4.4 1.1 4.4
Accruals and deferred income 12.4 7.1 – –
14.2 17.6 1.1 4.4
98 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Trade and other payables are stated at cost. Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 days’ terms.
Included within accruals and deferred income are the following amounts relating to deferred revenue from customer prepayments 
received on long-term projects.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 October 1.3 1.0
Increase in deferred revenue during the year 0.1 0.3
At 30 September 1.4 1.3
25. Provisions
Contingent
consideration
£m
At 1 October 2014 –
Arising on BIC asset acquisition 2.7
Unwinding of discount 0.4
Exchange difference (0.1)
At 30 September 2015 3.0
Contingent consideration is payable in relation to the assets acquired from Société Bic (S.A.) (‘BIC’) as detailed in note 31. The liability is 
payable in US Dollars and has been re-measured using the exchange rate at 30 September 2015 and using a discount rate of 14.6 per cent.
26. Financial instruments
Group
Capital management
The Directors consider the capital of the business to be the share capital and reserves of the Group. Due to the stage of development of the 
Group’s technology, the Group manages capital requirements through raising equity share capital or convertible loan notes. The requirement 
to raise equity share capital or convertible loan notes is determined by reference to projected cash flows that are reviewed regularly.
Risks
Interest rate risk
At 30 September 2015 the Group does not hold any borrowings or other liabilities attracting an interest charge. The Group holds financial 
assets attracting interest receivable as detailed in notes 21, 22 and 23.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk 
arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. 
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is 
not the entity’s functional currency. Management has set up a policy to require Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk 
against their functional currency. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets 
and liabilities, entities in the Group will seek to use forward contracts, transacted by Group treasury. 
The Group has implemented a treasury risk management policy to hedge certain anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency for 
the subsequent 12 months. At 30 September 2015 the Group holds a foreign exchange forward contract with a notional principal amount 
outstanding of JPY190.4 million. The change in the fair value of this derivative is recognised in net finance costs in the income statement.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency 
exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations will be managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the 
relevant foreign currencies.
At 30 September 2015 the Group has no foreign currency borrowings (2014: none).
At 30 September 2015, if the UK pound had weakened/strengthened by 10 per cent against the US Dollar, Japanese Yen, Indian Rupee and 
Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax loss for the year would have been £0.5 million higher/£0.4 million lower (2014: £0.3 
million higher/£0.2 million lower), mainly as a result of foreign currency exchange gains/losses on Indian Rupee denominated trading.
99 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
26. Financial instruments continued
Credit risk 
The Group’s credit risk is predominantly with major multi-national original equipment manufacturing companies, based in Europe and 
Japan and a major telecommunications provider in India. Concentration of credit risk arises from a major customer in India and from a 
significant amount of cash funds that are placed with a number of the major UK clearing banks. The Group only places cash deposits with 
banks with investment credit rating in accordance with the Group’s treasury policy. The Group seeks to diversify exposure such as ensuring 
that concentration of funds with an individual bank at any time does not exceeding pre-determined limits as set out in the Group’s 
treasury policy.
The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the 
reporting date was as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade and other receivables 12.4 12.9
Short-term deposits 0.6 42.8
Cash and cash equivalents 23.6 46.1
36.6 101.8
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains adequate liquid funds to match contractual cashflows, with any surplus funds being placed on short-term interest-
bearing deposit.
Accounting classifications and fair values
When measuring the fair value of an asset or liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised 
into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation technique as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The fair value of the derivative financial liability has been fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market and 
falls within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
The fair value of the contingent consideration on the BIC acquisition on initial recognition falls within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy and 
is derived from the present value of the expected payments, discounted using a discount rate of 16.3 per cent. The expected payment is 
determined by applying the contractual percentage of revenue to the sales forecast for the relevant products. 
All other financial assets/liabilities are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position at amortised cost with carrying value 
being a reasonable approximation of fair value.
The following tables show the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities. They do not include fair value 
information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Carrying amount
30 September 2015
Loans and 
receivables  
£m
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m
Liabilities at fair 
value through 
profit and loss 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 5.9 – – 5.9
Short-term deposits 0.6 – – 0.6
Cash and cash equivalents 23.6 – – 23.6
30.1 – – 30.1
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value 
Trade and other payables – 1.8 – 1.8
Provisions – 3.0 – 3.0
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Derivative financial liability – – 0.1 0.1
– 4.8 0.1 4.9
100 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Carrying amount
30 September 2014
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 8.4 – 8.4
Short-term deposits 42.8 – 42.8
Cash and cash equivalents 46.1 – 46.1
97.3 – 97.3
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value 
Trade and other payables – (10.5) (10.5)
– (10.5) (10.5)
The book value of the financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is in all cases considered to be fair value.
Liquidity risk
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, 
and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
Contractual cash flows
30 September 2015
Carrying
amount
£m
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
2 to 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Provisions (3.0) – – (4.6) (4.6)
(3.8) – (1.8) (4.6) (6.4)
Contractual cash flows
30 September 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
2 to 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables (10.5) – (10.5) – (10.5)
Company
(a) Accounting classifications and fair values
The following tables show the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair 
value hierarchy. They do not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the 
carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Carrying amount
30 September 2015
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Trade and other receivables 213.7 – 213.7
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 – 0.1
213.8 – 213.8
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Trade and other payables – (1.1) (1.1)
101 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
26. Financial instruments continued
Carrying amount
30 September 2014
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial assets not measured at fair value
Trade and other receivables 214.5 – 214.5
Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 – 1.1
215.6 – 215.6
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Trade and other payables – (4.4) (4.4)
The book value of the financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is in all cases considered to be fair value.
(b) Liquidity risk
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, 
and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
Contractual cash flows
30 September 2015
Carrying
amount
£m
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Total 
£m
Trade and other payables (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Contractual cash flows
30 September 2014
Carrying
amount
£m
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Total 
£m
Trade and other payables (4.4) – (4.4) – (4.4)
27 . Issued share capital
2015 2014
Issued, called up and fully paid
Number 188,325,451 188,112,899
Million £ 9.4 9.4
Holders of the ordinary shares (of 5p nominal value each) are entitled to receive dividends and other distributions and to attend and vote 
at any general meeting.
Shares were allotted during the period since 1 October 2014 as follows:
Shares of 
5p each
Exercise of share options 212,552
The issue of ordinary shares during the year generated additional gross funds of £0.2 million (2014: £109.9 million) for the business.
Transaction costs in respect of equity issues have been deducted from equity (net of any related income tax benefit) to the extent that they 
are incremental costs directly attributable to the equity transactions that would otherwise have been avoided. The value of issue costs 
netted off equity in the year was £nil (2014: £1.6 million).
102 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc 28. Reserves
Equity share capital
The balance classified as share capital relates to the nominal value of shares on issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 5p 
ordinary shares.
Share premium
The balance classified as share premium relates to the aggregate net proceeds less nominal value of shares on issue of the Company’s 
equity share capital.
Other reserves
Equity component of convertible loan notes
During the year ended 30 September 2013 the Company issued convertible loan notes with equity and liability elements. The convertible 
loan note proceeds, after deducting the liability element, is deemed to be the equity element and has been accounted for in reserves. 
The loan notes were converted upon the listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange in the prior year. The liability element has been 
transferred to share capital and share premium whilst the equity element of £9.7 million in reserves remains, in equity. The realised element  
of £2.2 million has been transferred to retained earnings and the unrealised element of £7 .5 million transferred to a capital reserve.
Merger reserve
The balance classified as other reserves relates to the acquisitions of Advanced Power Sources Limited and Intelligent Energy Limited,  
as recommended by section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign operations.
29. Share-based payment plans
A total share-based payment expense of £2.3 million (2014: £6.0 million) has been recognised in the year, comprising an equity-settled 
charge of £2.3 million (2014: £2.6 million) and a cash-settled charge of £nil (2014: £3.4 million).
The Company has issued a number of share-based payment plans to employees including share options and share awards as described below.
2001 and 2009 Share Option Schemes
The exercise price of the options are fixed and determined on the date of the grant. The option holders have the option to purchase 
ordinary shares at the option price between the exercise dates. The fair value of the options is estimated at the grant date using a  
Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The contractual life of each 
option granted is varied. The schemes are equity-settled share-based payments and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
The 2009 Share Option Scheme is subject to specific performance criteria being met.
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, the share options 
during the year in relation to the 2001 and 2009 Share Option Schemes:
2015
No.
2015
WAEP
pence
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
pence
Outstanding at 1 October 2,970,600 92 3,725,379 96
Exercised during the year (212,552) 80 (146,865) 92
Expired during the year (2,445,548) 88 (607,914) 115
Outstanding at 30 September 312,500 133 2,970,600 92
Exercisable at 30 September 312,500 133 2,970,600 92
At 30 September 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life for the 2001 and 2009 scheme share options outstanding  
is 0.98 years (2014: 1.28 years). There were no options granted during the current or prior year under the 2001 or 2009 schemes. 
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding under these schemes at the end of the year was 80p to 150p (2014: 80p to 150p).  
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 89p. The share price at 30 September 2015 was 100.25 pence.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those  
equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002.
103 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Notes to the annual financial statements continued
29. Share-based payment plans continued
The following inputs were used in a Black-Scholes model to estimate the value of the options at grant date for the 2001 and 2009  
share-based payment plans:
Dividend yield (%) –
Expected volatility (%) 40%
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.77%
Expected life of option (years) 2 to 8.5
Weighted average share price (£) 1.00
Model used: Black-Scholes
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The 
expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the 
actual outcome.
2013 Management Incentive Plan 
The Company introduced the HM Revenue & Customs approved 2013 Management Incentive Plan (‘MIP’) during the prior year.
The purpose of the MIP is to provide participants with an opportunity to participate directly in the growth of the value of the Company by 
receiving the MIP award. This allows participants to share in a pool of value, “the MIP Pool”, which is linked to the growth in the value of the 
Company’s shares. Participants receive shares and share options in the Company if the Company is sold, taken over or is floated on a stock 
exchange (‘Exit Event’). 
Awards were granted to employees under the MIP on 7 March 2014. The admission to the London Stock Exchange in July 2014 was an Exit 
Event under the conditions of the MIP . The size of the MIP Pool was determined by reference to 16 per cent of the difference between the 
Offer Price of £3.40 and £2.30. Each participant’s share of the MIP Pool was converted into the number of shares (awarded in the form of a) 
MIP Share Options and b) MIP Share Awards) determined by reference to the Offer Price with the MIP Award vesting as follows:
• One third on the date that the Company’s shares are floated on the stock exchange;
• One third on the first anniversary of the date of flotation; and 
• One third on the second anniversary of the date of flotation.
During the year ended 30 September 2014, 810,000 share options were granted and 5,446,133 shares were awarded to the MIP  
scheme participants. 
MIP Share options
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, the share options 
during the year in relation to the MIP:
2015
No.
2015
WAEP
pence
2014
No.
2014
WAEP
pence
Outstanding at 1 October 810,000 100 – –
Granted during the year – – 810,000 100
Forfeited (160,000) 100 – –
Outstanding at 30 September 650,000 100 810,000 100
Exercisable at 30 September 270,000 100 270,000 100
One third of the granted share options (270,000 options) vested on 9 July 2014 on listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange. 
190,000 of the remaining options vested on 9 July 2015 but are yet to be delivered to participants. The third tranche of 190,000 options 
which are outstanding at 30 September 2015 will vest on the second anniversary of the Company listing on the London Stock Exchange.
At 30 September 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life for the MIP share options outstanding is 8.42 years (2014: 9.42 
years). The weighted average fair value of options granted during the prior year, under the MIP , determined by the Monte-Carlo valuation 
model was 1 10p per option.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The 
expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the 
actual outcome. The MIP scheme is equity-settled and the fair value is measured at the grant date.
104 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc MIP Share awards
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average fair value (WAFV) at grant date of shares awarded, forfeited and 
vested in relation to the MIP:
2015
No.
2015
WAFV
Pence
2014
No.
2014
WAFV
pence
At 1 October 4,298,646 104 – –
Awarded – – 5,446,133 104
Forfeited (290,924) 104 – –
Vested (2,137,938) – (1,147,487) 104
At 30 September 1,869,784 104 4,298,646 104
Share awards were granted on 7 March 2014. On admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange on 9 July 2014 the first tranche 
of the share award vested with the MIP participants. Part of the first tranche of the share award was modified by the Company issuing a 
reduced number of 1,147 ,487 shares and settling a number of share awards in cash instead of facilitating sales of Ordinary Shares under the 
award. In addition, the Company paid in cash, the value of the share award that vested on Admission, in respect of one Director of the 
Company. These elements of the award totalling £3.4 million have been treated as cash-settled share-based payments which were settled 
in the prior year.
2,137 ,938 of the share awards vested on 9 July 2015 but are yet to be delivered to participants. The third tranche of 1,869,784 share awards 
which are outstanding at 30 September 2015 will vest on the second anniversary of the Company listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and will be equity settled.
The following inputs were used in a Monte-Carlo model to estimate the value of the options and share awards at grant date for the MIP 
share-based payment plans:
Dividend yield (%) –
Grant date 7 March 2014
Expected volatility (%) 39.24%
Risk-free interest rate (%) 1.09%
Expected life of option (years) 3
Share price at grant date (£) 2.50
Model used: Monte Carlo Algorithm
Sharesave plan
A sharesave plan was implemented during the year eligible to all UK employees. Employees participate by making monthly saving contributions 
over a period of three years, linked to the grant of an option over the Company’s shares with an option price at a 20 per cent discount to 
the market value of the share at grant. 508,679 options were granted under the scheme during the year.
Deferred bonus plan
A deferred bonus plan was implemented during the year. The bonus earned will be delivered in the form of a nil-cost share option award, 
vesting after a period of two years. Share options under this plan in respect of performance during the current year are granted 
subsequent to the year end. Therefore at 30 September 2015 no options have been granted.
105 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 30. Commitments 
Energy Management Business transaction
On 30 September 2015 the Group signed an agreement to acquire GTL Limited’s (‘GTL ’) energy management business to provide efficient 
and economical energy to over 27 ,400 telecom towers in India (‘Energy Management Business’).
This pioneering transaction supports the growth strategy of the Group’s Distributed Power & Generation division. It immediately provides 
a managed customer base of significant scale to which the Group can begin to economically deploy its market leading fuel cell technology, 
optimise the existing operating base which includes the increasing use of the Group’s asset management and business intelligence 
capability (‘AMBIS’) and develop cost-effective hydrogen fuel distribution. The transaction provides a platform for the large scale economic 
deployment of fuel cells as a distributed power solution.
Consideration of INR 850 Crores (approximately £85m) is payable for the Energy Management Business, of which up to £25m will be 
financed by the Group and a maximum INR 600 Crores (approximately £60m) from debt funding secured against the revenue streams of 
the Energy Management Business, both due on completion.
The acquired contracts of the Energy Management Business will involve the management of the current power generating assets of the 
telecom tower companies of the Global Group (of which GTL is part) and their gradual replacement with fuel cells on a site by site basis 
where economically suitable.
Power generating assets and the funding of replacement like for like capacity remain the responsibility of the telecom tower companies of 
the Global Group.
The acquisition of the Energy Management Business also includes approximately 290 permanent staff who are currently involved with the 
delivery of the energy management contracts and of sub-contracted services.
Until completion, the Group will continue to operate under an existing interim sub-contract arrangement for power supply services to the 
27,400 sites.
Completion of the acquisition of the Energy Management Business is subject to a number of conditions, including those set out below:
• Completion of Indian competition regulatory clearance.
• The GTL group of companies completing their own corporate approvals including concluding any final approvals required from lenders.
• Completion of £60 million of Indian domestic fundraising.
Should the transaction not complete under certain conditions, the Group will pay a break fee of 1 per cent of the Group’s market capitalisation to GTL.
Activities in South East Asia
An opportunity has been identified to acquire certain intangible assets to support the development of energy management capabilities 
within DP&G. The Directors of the Group believe that this transaction would align with the acquisition of the Energy Management Business in 
India by providing the Group with increased operational capabilities with a particular focus on its energy management activities.
Should the transaction conclude, the Group would secure access to valuable know-how, operational processes and services that can be 
leveraged within the acquired Energy Management Business, together with the Group’s existing know-how and new technology, to drive 
increased efficiencies and higher EBITDA margins. The intangible assets proposed to be acquired would be harnessed to benefit the 
acquired Energy Management Business by improving performance and reducing down time for the network. The transaction would also 
be expected to (i) enable the Group to replicate the business model elsewhere across the South East Asian market; and (ii) increase the 
attractiveness of the Group’s energy management model to partners. The approach aligns with the Group’s medium-term targets for the 
DP&G business and offers the Group increased capabilities and opportunities that will benefit the Group as the Indian power management 
model is replicated in other developing markets.
The transaction is expected to require funding in the range of £30 million to £45 million and will be funded by non-recourse debt finance  
(with no related Group equity injection or cash outflow). It is expected that the debt repayments will be self-financed by charges payable by 
the Group’s Indian energy management business for access to and use of the acquired assets and expertise as a result of expanding margins.
The Directors of the Group retain final discretion to decide whether or not to proceed with the transaction which decision shall depend  
on various factors, including the outcome of the proposed acquisition of the Energy Management Business.
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
The Group has entered into commercial leases on several properties, and items of office and laboratory equipment. These leases have an 
average duration of between less than one year and six years. The property leases all contain an option for renewal, with such options 
being exercisable before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise. There are no restrictions 
placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Notes to the annual financial statements continued
106 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 30 September are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Within one year 1.7 1.5
After one year but not more than five years 4.8 4.7
After five years – 0.3
6.5 6.5
During the year, £1.9 million (2014: £1.3 million) was recognised as an operating lease expense. This was made up of minimum lease 
payments for equipment of £0.1 million (2014: £0.2 million) and for property of £1.8 million (2014: £1.1 million).
31. Asset acquisition
On 27 February 2015, the Group entered into a contract to acquire portable fuel cell and disposable fuel cartridge assets and IP from 
Société Bic (S.A.) (‘BIC’). The acquisition complements and extends the Group’s existing technology and manufacturing capability for 
embedding the Group’s technology in portable consumer electronic devices.
The acquisition completed on 2 April 2015 with the payment of US$13 million and US$2 million paid following completion of transition 
services. Contingent consideration is payable on a potential earn out up to US$7 million. The following table summarises the consideration 
payable and the assets acquired.
Consideration £m
Cash (US$15 million) 10.1
Contingent consideration (fair value of US$3.94 million) 2.7
Total consideration 12.8
Transaction costs 0.2
Total acquisition cost 13.0
Recognised amounts of assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 0.6
Patents 12.4
Assets acquired 13.0
The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay the former owners an amount based on the quantity of future 
product sales up to a maximum undiscounted amount of US$7 million.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under this acquisition agreement is 
between US$nil and US$7 million.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement at the time of acquisition of £2.7 million was estimated by discounting the 
amount potentially payable using a discount rate of 16.3 per cent based on the forecast future revenue from relevant product sales.
32. Off-statement of financial position arrangements
The Group enters into operating lease arrangements for the hire of buildings and plant and equipment; these arrangements are a cost-effective 
way of obtaining the short-term benefit of these assets. There are no other material off-statement of financial position arrangements. 
107 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 33. Related-party transactions
Group and Company
During the year the Group and Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties being 
subsidiary companies. Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 30 September with other related parties, are as follows:
Sales to
related party
£m
Purchases
from
related party
£m
Amounts
owed by
related party
£m
Amounts
owed to
related party
£m
Subsidiaries – Company
2015 – – 213.2 –
2014 – – 214.5 –
Joint ventures – Group and Company
2015 0.7 – 0.4 –
2014 0.9 – 0.1 –
The amount owed by related-party subsidiaries refers to the intercompany debt with Intelligent Energy Limited. 
The sales and amounts owed by related-party joint ventures refers to the development contract with IE-CHP (UK & Eire) Limited, SMILE FC 
System Corporation and Aquapurum Water Private Limited.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The related-party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc, a company registered in England and Wales, is the ultimate parent entity and controlling party in the 
Group.
Key management compensation
Key management personnel are deemed to be the Directors of the Company. The compensation paid or payable to key management for 
employee services is shown below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 1.3 1.0
Share-based payments 2.6 2.6
Total 3.9 3.6
Notes to the annual financial statements continued
108 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc Company and shareholder information
As at 30 September 2015, there were 595 holders of ordinary shares of £0.05 each in the capital of the Company. Their shareholdings are 
analysed below.
Shareholdings:
Balance ranges Total number of shareholders % of holders Total number of shares % of issued share capital
1–5,000 200 33.61 387,808 0.21
5,001–50,000 224 37.65 4,299,891 2.28
50,001–100,000 57 9.58 4,111,084 2.18
100,001–500,000 72 12.10 15,228,737 8.09
500,001 and above 42 7.06 164,297,931 87.24
Totals 595 100.00 188,325,451 100.00
Company information
Directors 
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
John Maguire
Chief Financial Officer
Michael Muller
Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director
Martin Bloom
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Dr Caroline Brown
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Zarir J. Cama
Independent Non-executive 
Director
Flavio Guidotti
Non-executive Director
Dr Philip Mitchell
Non-executive Director
Company Secretary 
Nicholas Heard
Registered Office 
Charnwood Building 
Holywell Park 
Ashby Road 
Loughborough 
Leicestershire 
LE1 1 3GB
Registered Number 
05104429
Website
www.intelligent-energy.com
Designed and produced by SampsonMay 
Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.sampsonmay.com
Auditor
KPMG LLP
St Nicholas House 
31 Park Row 
Nottingham 
NG1 6FQ
Legal adviser
Pinsent Masons LLP
30 Crown Place 
London 
EC2A 4ES
Principal bankers 
Barclays Bank PLC
5/6 High Street 
Hitchin 
Hertfordshire 
SG5 1BJ
Stockbroker 
UBS Investment Bank
1 Finsbury Avenue 
6
th
 Floor 
London  
EC2M 2PP
Stifel Nicolaus Europe 
Limited
150 Cheapside 
London 
EC2V 6ET
Registrar 
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Registrar services
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for 
example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share 
certificates, should be sent to the Registrar at the address shown 
below. Alternatively, call the shareholder helpline, also shown below.
A number of shareholder services can be accessed online at  
www.shareview.co.uk including a variety of “how to” guides and 
the portfolio service, which gives shareholders access to more 
information on their investments, such as balance movements  
and indicative share prices.
The shareholder helpline number is 0371 384 2030 or +44 1 21 415 7047 
(if calling from overseas). Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday 
to Friday, excluding public holidays. Calls may be recorded and 
randomly monitored for security and training purposes.
Stock symbols
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc ordinary shares trade under the 
following stock symbols:
• London Stock Exchange: IEH
• New York Stock Exchange (ADR): INGYY
ADRs
Any enquiries relating to ADRs should be sent to the depositary: 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
Depositary Receipts 
PO Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
USA 
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): +1 201 680 6825 
Email: sharerelations@bnymellon.com 
Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Forward-looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking 
statements. These statements are made by the Directors in good 
faith based on the information available to them up to the time  
of their approval of this report. Such statements should be  
treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including 
both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such 
forward-looking information.
109 UK
Loughborough (head office) 
Charnwood Building 
Holywell Park 
Ashby Road 
Loughborough
Leicestershire 
LE11 3GB 
UK 
T: +44 (0) 1509 271 271
E: marketing@intelligent-energy.com
London
10
th
 Floor 
88 Wood Street 
London 
EC2V 7RS 
UK 
T: +44 (0)20 8528 1495
France
Grenoble
17 rue des Martyrs Grenoble
38000 France
Grenoble
Building D3-317
USA
San Jose
1731 Technology Drive  
Suite 755 
San Jose 
California 95110 
USA 
T: +1 408 503 0503
Merritt Island
505 Odyssey Way
Merritt Island
Florida 32953
USA
India
Bangalore
Ferns Icon
Unit No. 4 2
nd
 Floor
Sy. No. 28
Doddanekkundi
Outer Ring Road
Bangalore 560 037
India 
T: +91 80 6715 5500
Japan
Osaka
16F Umeda Square Building
1-12-17 Umeda Kita-ku
Osaka
Japan
530-0001
T: +81 (0)6 6147 2122
Singapore
33 Pekin Street 
#03-01
Far East Square
Singapore 048763
T: +65 6800 4900
www.intelligent-energy.com
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc
(Incorporated in England and Wales as a limited company under the 
Companies Act 2006 with registered number 5104429)
Registered office: 
Charnwood Building, Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, LE11 3GB, UK
© Intelligent Energy Holdings plc – December 2015
