 Bringing Quality  
and Safety to Life
Intertek Group plc
Annual report 2015
Intertek Group plc Annual report 2015 OVERVIEW
1 Financial highlights
2 Intertek timeline
STRATEGIC REPORT
4 Our Mission
6 Our culture
8 Market context
10 Our sectors
12 Our strategy 
14 Chairman’s statement 
16 Chief Executive Officer’s review  
21 KPIs – Measuring our strategy 
22 Intertek Executive Management Team  
Contents
24 Operating reviews 
34 Financial review 
39 Principal risks and uncertainties  
39 Long-term Viability Statement 
46  Sustainability and Corporate Social 
Responsibility (‘CSR’)
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
52 Chairman’s introduction
54 Corporate Governance
56 Board of Directors 
63 Remuneration report 
78 Audit & Risk Committee
83 Nomination Committee
85 Other statutory information 
88 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
89 Contents
90 Consolidated primary statements
95 Notes to the financial statements
133  Intertek Group plc – Company primary 
statements and notes
OTHER
138 Independent Auditor’s Report
141 Shareholder and corporate information 
142 Global Reporting Initiative Index 01 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW
1.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, cash conversion and adjusted  
diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) are stated before Separately Disclosed Items, which  
are described in note 3 to the financial statements. Statutory operating loss was  
£283.5m (2014: profit £276.6m) and statutory diluted loss per share in 2015  
was (224.2)p (2014: diluted EPS 108.8p).
Financial highlights
Powering Ahead
Solid full year performance in 2015
• Improved organic growth performance
• Cost discipline delivers margin improvement
• Adjusted diluted Earnings per Share
1
 (EPS) up 6.5%
• Strong cash conversion at 136% and disciplined capital allocation
• Full year dividend per share of 52.3p, an increase of 6.5%
• Non-cash impairment of £577m in Industry Services
2.  Cash conversion is calculated as adjusted cash flow from operations before special 
contributions to pensions divided by adjusted operating profit. 
3.  Dividend per share for 2015 is based on the interim dividend paid of 17.0p (2014: 16.0p) 
plus the proposed final dividend of 35.3p (2014: 33.1p).
Revenue (£m) Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m)
+3.5%
2015
2014
2,166
2,093
+5.9%
2015
2014
343
324
Adjusted operating margin
1 
(%) Cash conversion
1,2
 (%)
+40bps
2015
2014
15.9%
15.5%
136%
2015
2014
136.4%
124.7%
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence) Dividend per share
3
 (pence)
+6.5%
2015
2014
140.7
132.1
+6.5%
2015
2014
52.3
49.1 1885 1925 1927 1888
Building On Our Heritage
Intertek’s history dates back over 130 years to some of  
the world’s early pioneers in scientific innovation and trade.
OVERVIEW INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 02
2002
Intertek listed on  
London Stock Exchange 
and becomes Intertek 
Group plc 
Market capitalisation of £614m, 
joining the FTSE 250 in the 
Support Services sector
SEMKO (Sweden) founded
SEMKO is founded in Sweden to provide 
electrical and electronic product safety 
testing. SEMKO registers the ‘S-Mark.’ It 
becomes a product testing organisation 
accredited by the Swedish government 
for its mandatory certification.
Charles Warnock  
Company (Canada) 
founded
Charles Warnock established 
a steel products inspection 
company in Montreal, Canada.
Caleb Brett  
(UK) founded
Caleb Brett founded a marine 
surveying business in 1885 to offer 
independent testing and certification 
of grain cargo aboard ships and 
vessels prior to shipment. 
Milton Hersey 
(Canada) founded
In 1888, Milton 
Hersey established a 
small chemical testing 
laboratory in Montreal, 
Canada, pioneering the 
idea of independent 
testing laboratories. 
1996
Inchcape Testing Services 
bought by Charterhouse
Intertek timeline
Building On Our Heritage
Intertek’s history dates back over 130 years to some of  
the world’s early pioneers in scientific innovation and trade.
1896
Edison Lamp Testing  
Bureau (USA) founded
In 1896, Thomas Edison, one of 
history’s foremost innovators, 
established the Lamp Testing 
Bureau, later named the Electrical 
Testing Laboratories (ETL), which 
is the ‘ETL’ mark that Intertek 
applies today.
 75 0
laboratories and offices
 10 , 5 00
employees
Intertek enters 
the FTSE 100 
for the first time
2009
 £ 1 b n
Revenue 
exceeds £1bn
2008
ACQUISITION
Moody International
(2,500 new employees)
2011 1954 1973
ACQUISITION
1984-87 1984-87 1984-87
ACQUISITION ACQUISITION
03 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW
Warnock Hersey (Canada) founded
In 1954 Milton Hersey and Charles Warnock merge 
their companies to create ‘Warnock Hersey’, 
one of the largest testing and inspection entities 
in Canada (1954). The company expands into 
minerals, lumber testing and the US market.
Inchcape establishes 
Labtest (Hong Kong)
Labtest originally focuses 
on textile testing and later 
broadens across other 
consumer goods.
Inchcape Testing 
Services formed
Inchcape expands through  
a series of acquisitions.
2015
ACQUISITION
Professional Service Industries, Inc.  
(‘PSI’)
Leading US-based provider of testing and 
assurance services to commercial and civil  
construction markets
Intertek in 2015
 £2 , 1 66m
Revenue
41 ,400
Employees
 £343m
 Adjusted Profit
 1 00+
Countries
 1 , 000
 Labs and Offices
Foreign Trade 
Standards
Government  
Trade & Inspection 
Services (UK)
Caleb Brett Intertek Testing 
Services, Intertek 
Services International
Government Trade & 
Inspection Services (US)
1988
ACQUISITION
ETL Testing 
Laboratories 
1992
ACQUISITION
Warnock Hersey
1994
ACQUISITION
SEMKO STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 04
Our Mission
Our mission is to exceed our customers’ expectations with innovative  
and bespoke Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification services  
for their operations and supply chain.
Assurance 
Assurance ensures our customers  
identify and mitigate the intrinsic risk  
in their operations, supply chain and 
quality management systems.
Testing 
Testing is evaluating how products  
and services meet and exceed quality, 
safety, sustainability and performance 
standards.
Inspection 
Inspection is validating the specifications, 
value and safety of raw materials, 
products and assets. 
Certification 
Certification is certifying that products 
and services meet trusted standards.
Strategic report – Our Mission 05 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR PURPOSE:
OUR VISION:
Bringing Quality  
and Safety to Life. 
To Become the World’s  
Most Trusted Partner  
for Quality Assurance.  STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 06
Strategic report – Our culture
Living Our  
Customer -Centric Culture
We want to leverage our 
passionate culture to deliver a 
superior customer service with 
engaged employees, excellence, 
diversity, innovation, agility, 
teamwork and collaboration. 
In a decentralised and diverse 
global service business fostering  
the right customer-centric culture 
will make our Total Quality 
Assurance proposition a strong 
competitive advantage. 
We have revisited our values to 
drive the right cultural behaviours 
and we have identified five values 
that are true to who we are. 07 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Living Our  
Customer -Centric Culture
We are a global 
family that values 
diversity.
We always  
do the right thing. 
With precision, pace  
and passion.
We trust each  
other and have  
fun winning 
together.
We own and  
shape our future.
We create  
sustainable growth. 
For All. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 08
Strategic report – Market context
Attractive Global Growth 
Opportunities within the  
Quality Assurance Market
Growth Opportunities
We see four key attractive growth opportunities in the 
Quality Assurance Market:
• First, the structural growth drivers in both Assurance, 
and Testing, Inspection and Certification (‘TIC‘)  
taking advantage of our customers’ needs for  
Total Quality Assurance;
• Second, growing our market share with existing 
customers and through providing additional services 
across more products or projects and a wider coverage 
of the supply chain;
• Third, gaining new customers and convincing those 
businesses performing in-house testing that they  
should outsource; and
• Fourth, leveraging our highly cash-generative  
business model and strong balance sheet through 
selective acquisitions.
We are extremely well-positioned to take advantage of 
the growth opportunities in the Quality Assurance market 
and deliver GDP plus organic revenue growth over the 
medium to long term given our broad service portfolio, 
our technical expertise and global network of facilities. 09 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Structural Growth Drivers
Assurance
 Increased corporate focus on risk
 Outsourcing of supply chain
 Focus on ethical supply
 Sustainability of supply chain
  Increased management and board focus on  
risk management
   Increased shareholder requests for transparency  
on risk management and quality assurance
Testing, Inspection, Certification
 Increased volume and depth of TIC
 Global trade
 Regulatory changes
 Increased quality standards
 Consumers’ / customers’ focus on sustainability
 Innovation driving product variety
 E-commerce
 Technological development
   Growth in domestic demand in emerging markets
  Growth in energy demand
The Quality Assurance Market
Market size
$250bn
We estimate that the wider market opportunity for our 
Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification (‘ATIC‘) 
solutions is $250bn with significant growth opportunities.
It is currently dominated by in-house testing, while the 
external market is extremely fragmented. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 10
Strategic report – Our sectors
Offering Assurance, T esting, 
Inspection and Certification 
Solutions Across Three Sectors
Our Sectors
Sector Business Lines Contribution Outlook
Products
•  Structural drivers include  
quality solutions and sustainability 
demand, R&D, regulation, brand  
and supply chain expansion and  
risk management
Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical & 
Wireless, Business Assurance, 
Building & Construction, 
Transportation Technologies, 
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals, 
Product Assurance, Food  
and Health, Environmental  
& Regulatory Services 
Group revenue
51%
Group operating 
profit 
68%
Continuing  
growth from 
expanding 
investment in 
quality and 
innovation
Trade
•  Structural drivers include: global GDP 
growth, quality and quantity control 
requirements during transportation
Cargo & Analytical 
Assessment, Agriculture, 
Government & Trade Services
Group revenue
25%
Group operating 
profit
22%
Global and  
regional trade  
flow growth
Resources
• Structural drivers include: capex  
& opex investment, increased 
resources activity and long-term 
demand for energy
Industry Services  
and Minerals
Group revenue
24%
Group operating 
profit
10%
Long-term  
growth 11 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategic report – How we create value
Intertek T otal Quality  
Assurance Proposition
Compelling customer offering
The Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition is a compelling customer 
offering and includes:
• A global Network of State-of-the-Art Facilities
• Industry-Leading Technical Expertise
• Total Quality Assurance with Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification 
(‘ATIC’) services
• Innovative and Bespoke ATIC solutions in the Products, Trade and  
Resources sectors
• Superior Customer service 24/7 fuelled by Industry-winning processes  
and our customer-centric culture
Our Total Quality Assurance Proposition provides a systemic approach to 
supporting our customers’ Quality Assurance efforts in each of the areas  
of their operations including R&D, raw materials, sourcing, components  
suppliers, manufacturing, transportation, distribution and retail channels  
and consumer management.
We deliver our independent, innovative and bespoke Quality Assurance solutions 
for our customers’ operations and supply chains 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 
across 100 countries.
Intertek Customer Promise
Our innovative Assurance, Testing, Inspection  
and Certification solutions delivered 24/7 with 
precision, pace and passion enabling you to  
power ahead safely. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 12
Strategic report – Our strategy
Our 5x5 Strategy for  
Sustainable Growth 13 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
To seize the exciting ATIC growth opportunities ahead and deliver our  
Total Quality Assurance Proposition, we have developed our 5x5 strategy 
based on 5 clear strategic priorities and 5 enablers.
Disciplined Performance 
Management
Superior Technology
Energising Our People
Living Our Customer- 
Centric Culture
Delivering Sustainable 
Results, Everywhere,  
Every Day
Superior Customer Service
Effective Sales Strategy
Growth- and Margin- 
Accretive Portfolio
Strong Brand Proposition
Operational Excellence
Our 5 Strategic Priorities Our 5 Enablers STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 14
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
The appointment of André Lacroix in May 2015 has brought 
new thinking about the market drivers for Intertek and how  
our business should evolve to meet the changing needs of  
our stakeholders. To access the significant structural growth 
opportunities opened up by this new approach to the 
assurance, testing, inspection and certification market, André 
and the executive team have, with the support of the Board, 
developed a Total Quality Assurance Proposition and a new 
growth strategy. André explains more about the proposition 
and strategy in his Chief Executive Officer’s statement. In 
implementing this strategy, we will retain our capital discipline 
and operate with a renewed focus on margin accretive revenue 
growth, strong returns and cash generation. We plan that this 
will deliver positive outcomes for our customers, our people 
and our shareholders.
2015 PERFORMANCE
Our performance benefited from good growth in our Products 
and Trade businesses, while trading conditions remained 
challenging in the Resources businesses. In 2015, the Group 
delivered revenue of £2,166m, an increase of 3.5% over the 
prior year. Organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates 
was 1.6%. Adjusted operating profit rose to £343m, up 5.9%, 
and adjusted operating margin was 15.9% compared to 15.5% 
in 2014. 
The Industry Services business continued to face challenges in 
the energy infrastructure sector of oil and gas. Following a 
review of our business a non-cash impairment charge of 
£577.3m has been recorded in the year. 
The underlying performance of the business was solid with 
adjusted diluted earnings per share of 140.7p, up 6.5%.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy. We will seek  
to increase the dividend each year in a sustainable way and 
maintain a minimum dividend cover of 2.5 times earnings.  
On 13 October 2015, we paid an interim dividend of 17.0p  
per share (2014: 16.0p). At the Annual General Meeting, the 
Board will propose a final dividend of 35.3p per share, which 
will make a full year dividend of 52.3p per share (2014: 49.1p), 
an increase of 6.5%.
This final dividend will be paid on 3 June 2016 for those 
shareholders on the register on 20 May 2016.
CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENT
In 2015, the Group continued to generate strong cash flow, 
with adjusted cash flow from operations of £466m, an increase 
of 15% on the prior year. Adjusted cash conversion was 136% 
compared to 125% in 2014.
The Group invested £112m in new laboratories and equipment 
in the year which represents 5.2% of total revenue (2014: 
£110m, 5.2%). The capital investment programme ensures  
we continually position Intertek to capture future growth. 
Net debt at the year end was £775m, an increase of 22%  
on the prior year, largely reflecting the net spend of £231m  
on acquisitions.
ACQUISITIONS
In line with our priorities of strengthening our global and local 
businesses, Intertek announced the acquisitions of five new 
companies in 2015, with four completing during the year. 
This has been an important year for the 
quality assurance market and for 
Intertek as highlighted by the number 
of news reports around the world 
frequently focusing on questions about 
quality. As a global business operating 
with more than 41,000 people in over 
100 countries in three main sectors of 
the economy – Products, Trade and 
Resources – Intertek has continued to 
help our customers meet the 
challenges they face by providing 
independent, innovative and bespoke 
quality assurance solutions.
 ”Never has there been so much  
focus on quality assurance from 
consumers, regulators, media, 
companies and investors.”
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman 15 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
André provides more detail on acquisitions in his statement. 
The most significant was the acquisition of Professional  
Service Industries, Inc., a leading US-based provider of  
testing and assurance services to the commercial and civil 
construction markets.
With our strong financial position we are well-placed to 
continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities and to 
make smaller, bolt-on acquisitions that bring complementary 
services to our portfolio and have the potential to increase 
shareholder value.
THE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
With highly engaged people, having the right person at the 
very top of the organisation to lead the business in a world that 
is changing quickly is critical. Appointed on 16 May 2015, our 
new Chief Executive Officer, André Lacroix, and the 
experienced leadership team have worked with the Board 
during the year to develop a differentiated strategy for growth 
that meets the needs and demands of our stakeholders.
At the May 2015 Annual General Meeting, after serving as 
Chief Executive Officer for ten years, Wolfhart Hauser retired. 
Christopher Knight, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Non-Executive Director, also retired after serving for nine 
years on the Board.
We welcomed Gill Rider to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 
2015. Gill adds valuable experience to the Board from her 
career in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
In other changes to the Committees, Mark Williams was 
appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
with effect from 15 May 2015, Alan Brown moved from the 
Remuneration Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee on 
1 July 2015 and Dame Louise Makin joined the Nomination 
Committee on 1 December 2015.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our ongoing and continuing dialogue with our shareholders 
has been a key focus during the year. As a Board, we have been 
cognisant of the voting results at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting. We took note of the shareholder pushback for the 
advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting and responded accordingly. As a 
result, there has been significant engagement with our 
shareholders and other stakeholders on remuneration matters 
and all feedback has been reviewed and taken into 
consideration. In accordance with regulations and good 
corporate governance and following further shareholder 
engagement, our Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be 
presented for approval by shareholders at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting. Details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77.
GOVERNANCE
As Chairman, I am committed to seeing Intertek operating with 
the highest standards of corporate governance. 
An independent external evaluation was undertaken of the 
Board during the year. I am pleased that the results were 
positive and confirmed that the Board and the way it operates 
are effective. More information on this review is outlined on 
pages 60 and 61 of the Corporate Governance Report.
While all Board appointments are made on merit, we are strong 
believers in the importance of diversity. We have strived for 
gender diversity among our membership and female Board 
members currently comprise 30% of the Board. Our Diversity 
Policy can be found on our website.
SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainable business practices are integral to Intertek. We assist 
many of the world’s leading corporations and best-known 
brands in improving the social, ethical and environmental 
impact of their products, processes and supply chains ensuring 
quality and safety and thereby protecting their brands.
In our own operations, we continue to improve our processes 
to monitor our impact on climate change and have controls in 
place to minimise the Group’s effect on the environment 
through, for example, utilising renewable sources of energy, 
reducing energy consumption and implementing ‘green’  
waste management practices. 
The health and safety of our people is paramount and we  
have policies in place to ensure staff welfare remains of utmost 
importance. In 2015, we implemented an online reporting  
tool for information relating to health and safety incidents with 
these insights shared across the Group to help understand  
and reduce accident rates.
INTEGRITY AND OUR PEOPLE 
The integrity and ethical conduct of our people is at the core  
of everything we do and critical to the success of Intertek. We 
continually review our performance against our robust ethical 
policies and control procedures. These policies and procedures 
help us ensure that good business ethics are embedded across 
the Group. 
The Board recognises that delivering our new strategy for 
growth depends on many factors but people are our greatest 
asset. We are confident and know that our employees have the 
innovative talent and knowledge to build on our traditions to 
realise the full potential of our business. Our continuing success 
relies upon the commitment, energy, expertise and hard work 
of our teams around the globe and on behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued 
dedication and diligence. 
LOOKING AHEAD 
We look to the future with confidence. We have articulated  
a clear growth strategy to deliver quality assurance solutions  
in rapidly changing markets with strong structural growth 
drivers. Despite current market challenges in some parts of  
our Resources business, we believe the Group can continue  
to deliver revenue growth, improved margins, strong cash 
generation and attractive returns. Supported by the 
investments we are making, I am convinced Intertek  
will build on its successful heritage to continue to deliver  
long-term value for our shareholders. 
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman  STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 16
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review
‘I find out what the world needs,  
then I proceed to invent it’ 
So said Thomas Edison, who established the Edison Lamp 
Testing Bureau in 1896, one of the founding companies of 
Intertek. The ability to anticipate future trends has been a 
strength of Intertek over the years. Staying close to our 
customer needs is embedded in our day-to-day business to 
ensure that, as a company, we remain forward-looking and 
relevant in a rapidly changing world. This is the reason Intertek 
has a great heritage reaching back well over 100 years and over 
that time, our purpose, our vision and our mission are 
essentially unchanged.
Our purpose is bringing quality and safety to life. 
Our vision is to become the world’s most trusted partner  
for quality assurance.
Our mission is to exceed our clients’ expectations with 
independent, innovative and bespoke assurance, testing, 
inspection and certification services for their operations  
and supply chains. Globally. 24/7. 
2015 PERFORMANCE
We are pleased with the progress of the Group and we 
delivered a solid performance in 2015. Our organic growth 
momentum has improved and we have delivered EPS  
growth of 6.5%.
The Group remains strongly cash-generative and we have 
continued to invest in growth with capex and M&A in 
businesses with good growth and good margin prospects.
Given the continuing challenging trading conditions in the 
global oil and gas industry, we have taken a £577m non-cash 
impairment charge to reflect the uncertainties. This one-off 
charge has had a material impact on our reported profits,  
but does not impact the solid underlying performance  
of the business.
We have a tradition of innovation and as I travel around our 
operations across the globe to meet with our employees, 
customers, governments and regulators, I experience this 
innovative spirit every day across our business. 
As I have come to know Intertek, I am clear that we have five 
fundamental strengths that make our business successful:
• a global network of state-of-the-art facilities
• a powerful portfolio with leadership positions
• the depth and breadth of Quality Assurance solutions
• a high margin, strong cash-generative earnings model
• a passionate and entrepreneurial culture
We are a growth company operating in a unique growth 
industry. We have more opportunities today than ever before – 
from consumers demanding higher quality and greater 
sustainability; from regulators demanding safer products and 
better working conditions; and from companies focusing on 
reducing the risks in their increasingly complex operations and 
supply chains. 
We have indeed some truly exciting opportunities to make 
Intertek a great company.
 “Intertek is a growth company 
on a ‘good to great’ journey.”
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
Intertek is a business that has 
consistently innovated and evolved to 
meet changing needs and demands. 
Today, consumers are demanding 
higher quality and greater 
sustainability; regulators are 
demanding safer products and better 
working conditions; and companies are 
focusing on reducing the risks in their 
increasingly complex operations and 
supply chains. We are evolving our 
Total Quality Assurance Proposition to 
address the needs of our clients and 
see us seizing the exciting growth 
opportunities in our changing industry. 17 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHANGING INDUSTRY DYNAMICS POSITIVE FOR INTERTEK 
When companies outsource their supply chain around the 
world, it makes them more complicated and complex to 
manage. As a result, ensuring quality, traceability, ethical supply 
and sustainability in the supply chain has become the number 
one issue for many businesses. In today’s ever more connected 
world, problems or issues are quickly disseminated and can be 
extremely damaging for any business. 
As a result, both Board and management focus on risk 
management of their operations and supply chain is increasing. 
And, importantly, it is on shareholders’ agenda too.
In November 2015, Stephanie Pfeifer, chief executive of the 
Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, a group 
representing 118 investors with €12tn in assets under 
management wrote an open letter to EU policymakers stating 
that ‘investors need to be reassured that testing is reliable’ so 
that they can allocate ‘capital to those entities that are best 
placed to deliver enduring value to shareholders’. I truly believe 
that it is only a matter of time before investors ask for more 
transparency on risk management and quality assurance.
At its core, Testing, Inspection and Certification (‘TIC’) is  
the quality control of end product formulations, raw materials, 
components and assets. However the industry is evolving 
beyond Quality Control and increasingly includes Quality 
Assurance as corporations increase their focus on the 
management of risk for their operations and supply chain.
Indeed our customers now expect a Total Quality Assurance 
solution that includes systemic and in-depth Assurance, Testing, 
Inspection and Certification for their business. The TIC industry 
is gradually becoming the ATIC Quality Assurance market, 
which, as a market leader in Assurance, is an exciting 
opportunity for our business and Group.
Assurance ensures our clients identify and mitigate the  
intrinsic risk in their operations, supply chain and quality 
management systems. 
We have over 3,000 auditors and conduct on average  
90,000 audits annually delivering assurance through ISO 
certificates and non-ISO evaluations, as well as ensuring 
businesses comply with regulations and improve  
performance within their supply chains.
In addition to Assurance, we provide our customers with 
Testing, Inspection and Certifications. We do that every day, 
around the globe and we do it very well. We are one of the 
market leaders with a global footprint of over 41,000 people 
and 1,000 laboratories and offices in over 100 countries. 
Testing is evaluating how the products and services of our 
clients meet and exceed quality, safety, sustainability and 
performance standards. 
Inspection is validating the specifications, value and safety  
of raw materials, products and assets. 
Certification is certifying that products and services meet 
trusted standards.
ATTRACTIVE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES 
The ATIC Quality Assurance market is a $250 billion 
opportunity with significant growth opportunities.
We provide ATIC services to our clients in three distinct  
sectors of the global economy that share broadly common 
characteristics – Products, Trade and Resources – and this  
is how we will report our progress going forward.
• Products is consumer goods, commercial & electrical, 
chemicals & pharmaceuticals and business assurance
• Trade is cargo, agriculture, government & trade services
• Resources is oil and gas capex and opex-related industry 
spend, minerals.
90% of our operating profit is derived from Products- and 
Trade-related businesses, both of which are delivering good 
growth fuelled by the higher quality and safety standards 
requested by consumers and the growth of global and regional 
trade. The third sector serviced by our business model, 
Resources, has experienced more difficult trading conditions 
over the past 12 to 24 months and, while we expect the market 
to remain challenging in the short term, the need to support 
the demands of a growing global population means we remain 
confident in the longer term outlook for the sector. 
Given our broad service portfolio, our technical expertise and 
our global network of facilities, we are, in my view, extremely 
well positioned to take advantage of the various growth 
opportunities and to deliver global GDP plus organic revenue 
growth over the medium to long term. We will do this by 
offering a superior service proposition delivered by passionate 
employees and a Total Quality Assurance Solution leveraging 
our technical expertise and bespoke innovative ATIC solutions. 
We see four growth opportunities. First, the structural factors 
that drive growth in quality control such as global trade, 
changing regulation, increasing quality standards, consumer or 
customer focus on sustainability, innovation, e-commerce, new 
brands, and technology as well as the increased focus of Boards 
and management on risk in their supply chain and operations. 
Second, growing our market share with existing customers, 
through providing additional services, across more products or 
projects and wider coverage of the supply chain. 
Third, gaining new customer contracts and convincing those 
businesses performing TIC in-house that they should outsource. 
We estimate that around four-fifths of the ATIC market, 
equivalent to $200 billion, is in-house. We talk to these 
companies, offering a solution that will enable them to focus 
their resources on their core activities by providing the latest 
capabilities and familiarity with the latest regulations. As 
importantly, we provide independent expertise.
The fourth opportunity is industry consolidation. We have a 
highly cash-generative business model and a strong balance 
sheet to accelerate organic growth with selective acquisitions. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 18
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
INTERTEK TOTAL QUALITY ASSURANCE PROPOSITION
We are providing our clients with independent, innovative  
and bespoke quality assurance solutions for their operations 
and supply chains 24 hours a day, 7 days a week across  
100 countries. 
The strength of our Service, Business Lines and Countries 
portfolio enables us to seize the exciting growth opportunities 
in the ATIC Quality Assurance market globally as we offer our 
clients a broad base offering of ATIC solutions.
The Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition is a compelling 
client offering based on:
• A global network of state-of-the-art facilities;
• Industry-leading technical expertise;
• Total Quality Assurance with ATIC services;
• Innovative and bespoke ATIC solutions in the Products, Trade, 
Resources sectors; and 
• Superior customer service 24/7 fuelled by Industry-winning 
processes and our customer-centric culture.
Superior customer service is a key differentiator. I believe that 
creating a customer service for our clients will be a true 
accelerator of growth. We are increasing our efforts to 
continuously develop innovative processes to improve our 
customer service and at the core of this is using the Net 
Promotor Score (‘NPS’) methodology. 
We want to leverage our passionate culture across our Group 
through engaged employees. We champion amongst our teams 
entrepreneurship, excellence, diversity, innovation, agility and, 
most importantly, we foster a focus on collaboration to create 
cross-selling opportunities and a sustainable business. 
I strongly believe that in a decentralised and diverse global 
service business, fostering the right customer-centric culture  
will make our Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition  
a unique competitive advantage. 
We have revisited our values to drive the right cultural 
behaviours and we have identified five values that are true to 
who we are:
•  We are a global family that values diversity.
• We always do the right thing. With precision,  
pace and passion.
• We trust each other and have fun winning together.
• We own and shape our future.
• We create sustainable growth. For All.
OUR 5X5 STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
To seize the exciting ATIC growth opportunities ahead and 
deliver our Total Quality Assurance Proposition, we have 
identified 5 clear strategic priorities and the right 5 enablers. 
I call this our 5×5 growth strategy – five strategic priorities  
and five enablers.
The five strategic priorities are: 
A Strong Brand Proposition that positions Intertek as  
the market leading quality assurance provider. Our brand 
proposition and our well-known and respected legacy  
brands will build awareness of our strong quality  
assurance value proposition.
Superior Customer Service that supports premium pricing, 
listens to our customers to improve delivery and develops 
innovative solutions leveraging technology to make Intertek  
the most trusted quality assurance provider.
An Effective Sales Strategy that delivers organic revenue 
growth, developing our business with existing customers  
and winning new clients.
A Growth- and Margin-accretive Portfolio strategy that 
delivers growth at the business line, country and service levels. 
It is about deciding where we want to allocate our people and 
capital resource to move the centre of gravity of the Company 
towards the good growth and good margin areas in the 
industry operating within strict capital allocation guidelines.  
We will manage organic performance and pursue M&A 
opportunities based on these portfolio priorities. 
Operational Excellence to drive productivity. We will  
continue to eliminate non-essential costs, which will involve  
the consolidation of facilities and back offices, as well as 
streamlining and optimising our processes through improved 
IT infrastructure and technology. 
The five enablers are:
Led by what I call ‘Living Our Customer-centric Culture’. 
We have a strong entrepreneurial spirit and are decentralised 
which means our businesses are very close to their markets. 
Our people really are passionate about what they do - they 
understand their business and their markets. We can build  
on these very strong foundations, empowering the workforce 
and putting the customer first. 
Second is Disciplined Performance Management to deliver 
margin accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion 
and returns on capital. We will focus on internal/external 
benchmarking with improved reporting process and leverage 
technology to manage aligned financial and non-financial 
performance metrics. 
Superior Technology will add value to customers and increase 
our productivity. Our focus will be to improve the functionality 
and experience of our client-facing IT systems to provide the 
expected data intelligence as well as increasing the productivity 
of our back-office systems. 
Energising Our People in an engaged workforce is key. We 
are a people business and I am a firm believer that by providing 
personal growth opportunities and clear guidelines on 
expectations we can unleash the undoubted potential of the 
Intertek organisation. We will invest in capability to support  
and fuel our growth agenda and ensure that our reward and 
recognition strategy drives high and sustainable performance.
Delivering Sustainable Results, Everywhere, Every Day. 
This is about creating sustainable growth for our Customers, 
Employees, Shareholders, Suppliers and the community.  
We strongly believe that doing business the right way with  
all stakeholders will underpin the sustainability of our  
growth performance. 19 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
SHORT-TERM PRIORITIES IN 2016
To implement our 5x5 strategy we will be very focused in  
2016 on ensuring internal alignment on revenue, margins  
and cash delivery.
Ensuring alignment inside the company through: 
• an organisational structure supporting our business model;
• sponsorship of the 5x5 strategy at the top of the business  
with our growth agenda shared by the Executive Team;
• improving performance management;
• increased communications effort and best practice  
sharing; and
• a new short-term incentive scheme with a focus on margin 
accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion to 
deliver strong returns.
In 2016, to deliver revenue growth, we plan to:
• execute the short-term action plans in our global business lines;
• develop and launch innovative ATIC Solutions in Products, 
Trade and Resources;
• drive ATIC cross-selling to existing and new customers based 
on key account plans;
• implement NPS measurement to measure our Customer 
service delivery; and
• prioritise organic capex investments.
To deliver margin and cash improvement, we plan to:
• implement the 2015 cost restructuring activities;
• continue to look at cost saving opportunities by reviewing 
facilities, processes and purchasing;
• drive operational excellence with focus on financial and non-
financial metrics;
• ensure we manage our capacity and costs tightly in Industry 
Services and Minerals; and
• continue to improve cash management.
FOCUSED PORTFOLIO STRATEGY
Pursuing a growth- and margin-accretive portfolio is one of  
our five strategic priorities.
When managing our day-to-day performance and allocating 
our capital and people resource, we will pursue a three-tier 
portfolio strategy.
First, we will focus on our large businesses with good growth 
and margin prospects. These areas of focus are:
 –   At the Business Line level: Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical & 
Wireless, Cargo & Analytical Assessment and Government 
& Trade Services.
 –  At the Geographic level: North America, Greater China.
Second, we will invest in fast-growing businesses with good 
margin prospects where the focus areas are:
 – At the Business Line level: Business Assurance, Agriculture, 
Building & Construction, Transportation Technologies  
and Food.
 – At the Geographic level: South Asia, South East Asia, South 
America, Middle East and Africa.
Third, we will focus on improving the performance in:
 – At the Business Line level: Industry Services and Minerals.
 – At the Geographic level: Europe and Australasia.
DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
In my view, to deliver shareholder returns on a consistent basis 
the right formula is sustainable earnings growth with accretive 
disciplined allocation of capital. The first priority when it 
comes to capital allocation is investment supporting organic 
growth through capital expenditure and working capital to 
grow market share by delivering new services, opening new 
locations and winning new clients in areas with good growth 
and good margin prospects. In the medium to long term,  
we will invest 5% of revenue in capital expenditure.
The second priority is to deliver sustainable returns for our 
shareholders through the payment of progressive dividends.  
I am very comfortable with our current dividend payout ratio  
of circa 40% of earnings. 
The third priority for capital is M&A activity to strengthen  
our portfolio in the right growth areas provided we can deliver 
good returns. This means focusing on those existing business 
lines or countries with good operations and margin prospects, 
where we have a leading market position or entering new 
exciting growth areas, be that geography or services. 
In 2015, we announced five acquisitions in line with  
this strategy. 
In February, we acquired Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Ltd,  
a non-destructive testing business focused on the power 
generation market.
In September, we acquired Dansk Institut for Certificering  
A/S (‘DIC’), a quality assurance and certification company in 
Denmark. As a leading Danish certification body, DIC enables 
us to expand our Business Assurance capabilities in the  
growing Nordic region.
In November, we completed the purchase of Professional 
Service Industries, Inc. (‘PSI’), for a total cash consideration of 
$330 million. PSI is a leading US-based provider of testing and 
assurance services to commercial and civil construction markets, 
with a broad service offering including building materials 
testing; geotechnical services; and property and environmental 
assurance. The acquisition will build on the strong growth track 
record in our Building business and on the successful acquisition 
of Architectural Testing Inc. two years ago. 
In October we acquired MT Group LLC and Materials Testing 
Lab, Inc., (together ‘MT’), a leading provider of materials testing 
services for the building industry in the New York metro area.
The acquisitions of PSI and MT position us as a leading full 
service ‘one stop shop’ for our clients in the rapidly-growing  
US Building and Construction markets, bringing complementary 
services to our portfolio of Testing and Assurance services 
during the construction phase and deepening our footprint  
in the USA providing access to new markets and customers. 
In December, we announced our intention to acquire Food 
International Trust (‘FIT-Italia‘), an Italian company specialising  
in the provision of assurance services to the retail and 
agricultural sectors, which completed in January 2016.
The fourth priority is to maintain an efficient balance sheet 
that gives us the flexibility to invest in growth with leverage  
of net debt to EBITDA of 1.5 to 2 times. At the end of 2015, 
following completion of the PSI transaction, net debt to EBITDA 
stood at 1.7 times on a pro forma basis. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 20
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
OUTLOOK
The structural growth outlook for our industry is truly exciting. 
I believe that the ATIC Quality Assurance industry is a global 
GDP plus organic growth industry in the medium to long term, 
with many exciting opportunities.
In our Products-related businesses, the growth prospects are 
GDP-agnostic, driven by the need for companies to constantly 
innovate, raise quality standards, build brands, protect their 
reputations, meet regulatory standards and seek independent 
advice. This expanding investment in quality and innovation by 
our customers to build a brand franchise and gain market share 
will enable our Products business to benefit from faster than 
global GDP growth. 
The Trade business is linked to GDP growth. We will benefit 
from the expanded global trade and the development of 
regional trade in Asia, the Indian Ocean, Africa, the 
Mediterranean and the Americas. On this basis, we expect the 
growth profile to track global and regional trade at a broadly 
similar rate to GDP.
The Resources business is more cyclical and will remain 
challenging in the short term. From time to time we will cycle 
through phases where low resource prices mean our customers’ 
cash flow is restricted and, in such periods, we know that 
investment will be cut back. However, investment in exploration 
and production of oil, gas and minerals will increase over time 
to support the demands of a growing global population.
We plan to deliver in the medium to long term global GDP plus 
organic revenue growth, margin accretion from growth and 
productivity, strong cash conversion of 90-100% and strong 
returns, while creating sustainable returns for our shareholders.
In 2016, we expect to deliver a solid organic growth 
performance and we plan to integrate PSI in the USA. We 
expect our margin to be broadly stable and we will remain 
disciplined on cash generation and capital allocation.
SUMMARY
Intertek has a long and proud heritage built on innovation. 
From the early days of Caleb Brett in 1885, Intertek is a 
business that has consistently innovated and evolved to meet 
the changing needs and demands of consumers, our customers 
and employees. We have grown from a UK base to serve our 
clients in over 100 countries around the globe, 24 hours per 
day, seven days a week. We have the capabilities, technology, 
facilities and passionate people providing superior assurance, 
testing, inspection and certification services. 
As I look at Intertek today, I am truly excited about our future. 
We are seeing strong growth opportunities as the focus of 
corporates and their stakeholders is not just on quality control 
but quality assurance and risk management as Boards and 
management teams seek to reduce risk in their increasingly 
complex operations and supply chains. We are well positioned 
to seize these exciting growth opportunities with our strong 
ATIC Quality Assurance Proposition delivered globally in the 
three main sectors of the economy, Products, Trade and 
Resources. We are continuing to invest organically and making 
value-enhancing acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio.
We are focused on a portfolio of businesses to generate margin 
accretive revenue growth, strong returns and cash generation. 
We are on a ‘good to great’ journey.
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer 21 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
In overview for 2015, the Group delivered good revenue growth across the Products- 
and Trade-related divisions. The Group’s focus on growth, operational efficiency and 
margin accretion has underpinned improved cash conversion and increased dividend 
to shareholders.
Revenue 
(£m)
Revenue growth measures how well  
the Group is expanding its business, 
and includes currency impacts.
+3.5%
2015
2014
2013
2,166
2,093
2,184
Organic adjusted operating profit at 
constant exchange rates
1,3
 (£m)
Measures profitability of the Group 
excluding acquisitions and disposals.
+2.1%
2015
2014
338
331
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
(pence)
A key measure of value creation for  
the Board.
+6.5%
#
2015
2014
2013
140.7
132.1
138.6
Organic revenue at constant  
exchange rates
3
 (£m)
Revenue growth, excluding currency 
movements, acquisitions and disposals.
+1.6%
2015
2014
2,120
 2,087
Adjusted operating margin
1
  
(%)
Margin measures profitability as  
a proportion of revenue.
+40bps
2015
2014
2013
15.9%
15.5%
15.7%
Dividend per share
2
  
(pence)
Dividend per share measures returns 
provided to shareholders.
+6.5%
2015
2014
2013
52.3
49.1
46.0
Adjusted operating profit
1
  
(£m)
Measures profitability of the Group  
and includes currency impacts.
+5.9%
#
2015
2014
2013
343
324
343
Adjusted cash flow from operations
1
 
(£m)
Shows the ability of the Group  
to turn profit into cash.
+15.3%
2015
2014
2013
466
404
394
Return on invested capital
4
  
(%)
Measures how effectively the  
Group generates profit from 
its invested capital.
+60bps
#
2015 – Proforma
2014
2013
16.9
16.3
18.4
#.  Return on Invested Capital (‘ROIC‘), and, when re-calculated using 2014 exchange rates, adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted earnings per share, form the basis for Executive 
Director remuneration as described in more detail on pages 63 to 77.
1.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash flow from operations and adjusted diluted earnings per share are stated before Separately Disclosed Items, which  
are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
2. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend of 17.0p (2014: 16.0p) plus the proposed final dividend of 35.3p (2014: 33.1p).
3. Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2015 and 2014 at the average exchange rates for 2015. Organic revenue excludes acquisitions and disposals in the past two years.
4.  Proforma ROIC in 2015 is stated excluding the impact of the PSI acquisition on 23 November 2015 and excluding the impairment charge recorded as at 31 December 2015 to provide  
a meaningful comparative.
The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) to monitor performance and measure the financial impact of the 
Group’s strategy. Non-financial KPIs are shown in the Sustainability and CSR report on pages 46 to 51.
KPIs – Measuring our strategy STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 22
Strategic report
Intertek Executive Management Team
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Intertek Board as Chief 
Executive Officer in May 2015. André is 
an experienced Chief Executive with a 
strong track record of delivering long-
term growth strategies and shareholder 
value with global companies across 
diverse territories. André was previously 
Group Chief Executive of Inchcape plc 
from 2005 to 2015 and prior to this he 
was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of Euro Disney S.C.A. From 1996 to 2003 
he was the President of Burger King 
International, previously part of Diageo. 
André is currently the Senior Independent 
Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
The day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the 
Intertek Executive Management Team.
NIMER AL-HAFI
Senior Vice President, Global 
Customer Service and ATIC 
Operational Excellence
Joined Intertek in 1995. Nimer is 
responsible for the Group’s global 
customer service agenda and ATIC 
operational excellence as well as 
sustainability and health & safety 
programmes. Prior to this, he was 
President of Intertek’s US Products group 
covering testing, inspection, certification, 
consulting and quality assurance services, 
having started with the Company as an 
Engineer in 1995.
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer in October 2014. Joined Intertek 
in March 2013 as the Group’s Financial 
Controller. Prior to that, Edward spent 
nine years at Dixons Retail plc, where he 
held several senior financial management 
positions, including Divisional & Corporate 
Development Finance Director, UK & 
Ireland CFO and Group Financial 
Controller. From 1995 to 2004 Edward 
held commercial financial leadership roles 
at Procter & Gamble Co. covering the UK 
and international markets.
ANN-MICHELE BOWLIN
Chief Information Officer
Joined Intertek in 2009. Ann-Michele  
is Chief Information Officer and joined 
Intertek from Ernst & Young consulting 
where she led shared services 
transformation programmes. Prior  
to Ernst & Young, Ann-Michele held 
leadership and operations roles in 
technology companies, including 
Hotels.com, and in the manufacturing 
and services sectors.
TONY GEORGE
Executive Vice President,  
Human Resources
Joined Intertek in 2015. Tony is responsible 
for Human Resources. He has over 28 
years’ experience in HR, General 
Management and Business Development 
having held senior leadership positions  
in international FMCG, chemicals, 
telecommunications and retail companies 
including Vodafone plc, Starbucks, 
Diageo plc and ICI. Prior to joining 
Intertek, he was Group HR & Business 
Development Director at Inchcape plc. 
IAN GALLOWAY
Executive Vice President, Middle-
East, Africa and Global Trade 
Joined Intertek in 2011. Ian is responsible 
for the Middle-East, Africa and Global 
Trade comprising our business lines of 
Government & Trade Services, Cargo & 
Analytical Assessment and Agricultural 
Services. Prior to assuming his current  
role Ian held senior finance and business 
roles within Intertek. He has previously 
held international roles in finance 
management with BG Group in the UK, 
Egypt and Tunisia. Ian is a qualified 
Chartered Accountant. STRATEGIC REPORT
23 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
JAN-JORG MULLER-SEILER
Executive Vice President,  
Global Resources
Joined Intertek in 2008. Jan-Jörg has 
responsibility for Global Resources 
comprising our business lines of Industry 
Services, Exploration & Production and 
Minerals. Prior to assuming his current 
role, Jan-Jörg was President of Industry 
Services and Country Managing Director 
for Germany, Switzerland and Austria. 
Before joining Intertek, he worked for 
TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, as a 
member of the Board, with responsibility 
for their plant engineering and foreign 
business sectors.
GRAHAM RITCHIE
Executive Vice President, Europe
Joined Intertek in 2014. Graham is 
responsible for Intertek’s operations in 
Europe, including Russia, and Central 
Asia. Prior to assuming his current role, 
Graham was Intertek’s Group Financial 
Controller. Before joining the Company 
he held senior financial positions at BT 
Group plc and other technology services 
organisations, having started his career 
with PwC.
RAJESH SAIGAL
Executive Vice President,  
South & South East Asia
Joined Intertek in 2007. Rajesh has 
responsibility for South & South East Asia. 
Prior to this he was Regional Managing 
Director for Intertek’s South Asia 
operations. He has over 27 years’ general 
management and operational experience 
with Fortune 500 companies covering 
consumer durables, industrial products 
and engineering. Before joining Intertek, 
Rajesh was CEO South Asia for GEWISS 
and General Manager at Honeywell.
MARK THOMAS
Group General Counsel
Joined Intertek in 2015. Mark has 
responsibility for Intertek’s legal, risk and 
compliance functions. He joined Intertek 
from Inchcape plc where he was Group 
General Counsel. Prior to this, Mark was 
in private practice with Slaughter and 
May in London, advising on a wide range 
of public and private M&A transactions, 
equity and debt financing, and general 
corporate law issues.
GREGG TIEMANN
Executive Vice President, Americas, 
North Asia and Australasia
Joined Intertek in 1993. Gregg has 
responsibility for the Americas, North 
Asia and Australasia. Prior to assuming  
his current role, Gregg was responsible 
for the Americas and North Asia as well 
as the Consumer Goods and Commercial 
& Electrical divisions, having started as 
General Manager of the Los Angeles 
laboratory in 1993. Before joining 
Intertek, Gregg worked in sales and 
marketing for the software industry.
JULIA THOMAS
Vice President,  
Corporate Development
Joined Intertek in 2013. Julia has 
responsibility for Intertek’s acquisition  
and disposal activities, and oversees 
Group Marketing. Before joining Intertek, 
Julia spent 12 years in investment banking 
with J.P. Morgan Cazenove and Rothschild, 
focusing primarily on mergers and 
acquisitions. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 24
Strategic report – Operating review
Consumer Goods
The Consumer Goods division has continued to grow well, with 
strong growth in emerging markets.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 
Total revenue was £404.3m, up 4.4%  
at constant exchange rates. At actual 
exchange rates total revenue was  
7.7% higher.
Total adjusted operating profit was 
£136.1m, up 4.4% at constant exchange 
rates, reflecting good growth in the 
textiles and chemical testing businesses. 
Total adjusted operating profit was up 
9.1% at actual exchange rates.
In 2015 our Consumer Goods division 
delivered a 4.4% organic revenue growth 
performance with stable margin driven 
by a strong growth in Softlines and a 
solid performance in Hardlines.
Our Softlines business benefited from 
strong demand from our customers for 
chemical testing to reduce harmful 
chemicals and from the expansion of 
their supply chains in new markets where 
we have opened new facilities.
Our Hardlines business continues to  
take advantage of growth in new 
sourcing markets and strong global 
account relationships.
2016 OUTLOOK 
In 2016 we expect our Consumer Goods 
business to deliver good organic growth.
Our Softlines business will benefit from 
the supply chain expansion in Vietnam, 
Cambodia and India, as well as from the 
strong growth we are seeing in the 
footwear sector.
Our Hardlines business will benefit from 
the supply chain expansion in India and 
Mexico, as well as from the launch of 
innovative technology for Inspections  
in factories.
MID- TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 
Our Consumer Goods division benefits 
from strong long-term structural growth 
drivers including product variety, brand 
and supply chain expansion, product 
innovation and regulation, and the 
increasing quality and sustainability 
demand of developed and emerging 
economies globally. 
Through these trends we expect long-
term continuing growth from expanding 
investment in quality.
Financial highlights 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Organic 
change at
constant rates
Revenue 404.3 375.3 7.7% 4.4% 4.4%
Adjusted operating profit 136.1 124.8 9.1% 4.4%
Adjusted operating margin 33.7% 33.3% 40bps 0bps
KEY BUSINESS LINES
Softlines  
Hardlines  
Product Intelligence 
Auditing
SERVICES & CUSTOMERS
Intertek is a market leading provider  
of services to the textiles, toys, 
footwear, hardlines and retail 
industries. As partner to retailers, 
manufacturers and distributors,  
the Company offers expertise on  
quality issues ranging from restricted 
hazardous substances and 
sustainability, to supply chain security 
and legislation relating to 
environmental, ethical and trade  
security issues. Services include testing, 
inspection, auditing, advisory services, 
quality assurance and hazardous 
substance testing. Our customers 
include the world’s leading retailers, 
their partners and suppliers.
STRATEGY
Consumer Goods supports our 
customers with quality solutions  
that add value throughout their supply  
chain and which support their brand 
and desirability of their products  
to their end consumers. We do this  
by ensuring that we deliver high  
levels of service and expertise in  
key locations, and by continuously 
innovating the range of services  
we provide by anticipating customer 
demands and their future  
geographic needs.
£404.3m
Revenue
£136.1m
Adjusted Operating Profit
CASE STUDY
Intertek’s smart approach 
to chemical screening
In 2015, we launched our global 
Chemical Smart Screening service for 
textile, apparel and footwear 
customers. This single screening test 
can detect up to 400 substances in 
chemicals and auxiliaries used in 
production, allowing manufacturers 
and retailers to identify harmful 
chemicals even before reaching the 
prototype stage.
This innovative approach gives 
customers higher visibility into their 
supply chain as well as lowering the risk 
of extra production cost and turnaround 
time caused by rehandling. 25 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASE STUDY
Intertek launches  
innovative E-fit  
service for textiles  
and clothing
Intertek launched a new innovative 
computer-modelling E-fit service in 
India using CAD (Computer Aided 
Design) that codifies product 
specification to help local factories 
meet their clients’ standards for 
textiles and clothing.
Our tool uses a combination of 
hardware and software systems,  
to help manufacturers create  
3D designs and patterns, as well  
as showing fabrics stitched onto  
a virtual model to visualise the  
final product.
As well as reducing costs at every 
point in the manufacturing process 
including fabrics, logistics and 
prototypes, the E-fit CAD-enabled 
testing studio reduces production 
time for clients and provides a better 
understanding of fits and falls.
CASE STUDY
Intertek sports new  
testing for activewear
Activewear isn’t just for working out any 
more. As workout clothes have become 
more fashionable – spurring the popular 
‘athleisure’ trend – men, women and 
children are now wearing activewear to 
work, to run errands, to school and even 
out to dinner. Additionally, as people 
become more health-conscious by adding 
sport into their daily lives, activewear 
becomes a natural choice as it improves 
user performance.
To meet the rising demand from clients 
for activewear testing, in 2015 Intertek 
developed its Activewear Testing 
Solutions service.
We now carry out testing for functional 
and performance properties like anti-
bacterial, thermal regulation, moisture 
management (quick-dry), breathability, 
UV protection and water repellency for a 
variety of products including performance 
outerwear, fitness apparel, team 
uniforms, footwear and outdoor clothes. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 26
Strategic report – Operating review
Commercial & Electrical
The Commercial & Electrical division has grown revenue strongly 
with good growth across Electrical, Transportation Technologies 
and Building Products.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Total revenue was £411.7m, up 10.5%  
at constant exchange rates, driven by 
strong growth in our Transportation 
Technologies business line and the 
acquisition of PSI. At actual exchange 
rates revenue growth was 14.5%.
Total adjusted operating profit was 
£60.5m, up 13.9% at constant exchange 
rates with the total adjusted operating 
margin increasing 50 basis points at 
constant exchange rates. Total adjusted 
operating profit was up 18.6% at  
actual rates.
Our Commercial & Electrical business 
delivered strong organic growth of 6.1% 
in 2015 with improved margin driven by 
broad based growth in Electrical & 
Wireless (‘E&W’), Transportation 
Technologies and Building Products.
Our E&W business continued to benefit 
from higher regulatory standards in 
energy efficiency and from the increased 
demand for wireless devices.
The growing demand for greener and 
higher quality buildings and infrastructure 
in the US market are the major drivers  
of growth for our Building  
Product activities.
Our Transportation Technologies 
operations are capitalising on our 
automotive clients’ investments in R&D 
to develop new models and more fuel 
efficient engines.
The quality of our innovative solutions  
to support the performance and safety 
agenda of our customers is an important 
driver of the strong results we have 
delivered in 2015 in our Commercial  
& Electrical business.
2016 OUTLOOK
In 2016 we expect our Commercial  
& Electrical Business to deliver good  
organic growth.
Our E&W business will benefit from 
expansion of our operations in South 
Korea and Mexico into the fast growing 
EMC sector. On a global basis we are 
seeing an increased demand for Internet-
of-Things (‘IOT’) testing across multiple 
industries. 
Our Building Products business will 
benefit from the growth of the 
commercial and civil construction 
markets in the USA as well as from  
the integration of PSI. 
Our Transportation Technologies 
operations will take advantage of the 
strong growth of testing activities for 
electric and hybrid vehicles.
MID- TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 
As with our other Products-related 
divisions, Commercial & Electrical 
benefits from long-term structural 
growth drivers including product variety, 
brand and supply chain expansion, 
product innovation and regulation, and 
the increasing quality and sustainability 
demands by developed and emerging 
economies globally. 
Through these trends we expect long- 
term continuing growth from expanding 
investment in quality.
Financial highlights 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Organic 
change at
constant rates
Revenue 411.7 359.6 14.5% 10.5% 6.1%
Adjusted operating profit 60.5 51.0 18.6% 13.9%
Adjusted operating margin 14.7% 14.2% 50bps 50bps
KEY BUSINESS LINES
Electrical & Wireless 
Transportation Technologies  
Building Products
SERVICES & CUSTOMERS
Our global network of accredited 
facilities provides manufacturers and 
retailers with a comprehensive scope  
of safety, performance and quality 
testing and certification services.  
The division supports a wide range  
of industries including home 
appliances, consumer electronics, 
information and communication 
technology, transportation, lighting, 
medical, building products, industrial 
and renewable energy products. Our 
customers include the world’s leading 
brands and manufacturers of a wide 
range of consumer electrical and 
industrial products and components.
STRATEGY
Commercial & Electrical delivers 
solutions that add value along the 
length of our customers’ supply chain 
and which support their brand and  
the desirability of their products to  
their end consumers. Our key focus  
is leveraging our global network  
of centres of excellence and 
comprehensive suite of technical 
accreditations and market-leading 
customer service to help our clients  
get their products to market quicker 
through our ‘global market  
access’ programme. 
£411.7m
Revenue
£60.5m
Adjusted Operating Profit 27 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASE STUDY
Intertek leads the world 
in Qi wireless charging 
testing and certification
Intertek’s Center of New Technology 
and Knowledge in Hong Kong 
became the world’s first Wireless 
Power Consortium (‘WPC’)-
authorized testing laboratory to 
provide testing and certification 
services for medium to low-power  
Qi (pronounced ‘chee’) wireless 
charging products.
Qi wireless charging technology  
is a close-range inductive-charging 
technology, and any Qi-compatible 
device can be placed on medium/
low-power charging pads or docks 
to charge safely and easily. 
Together with our global expertise 
and cutting-edge technological 
solutions in electrical and wireless 
testing, we are now able to help our 
customers get their wireless charging 
products certified according to the 
highly recognised Qi standard.
CASE STUDY
Intertek launches Portable 
Emissions Measurement 
System testing capability
Intertek’s award-winning Transportation 
Technologies laboratory based in Milton 
Keynes, UK, responded swiftly to changes 
in European exhaust emissions legislation 
by launching a service to deliver accurate 
on-road vehicle exhaust emissions testing 
and analysis, enabling manufacturers to 
report ‘real world’ driving emissions.
Intertek was one of the first UK test 
laboratories to offer vehicle-mounted 
Portable Emissions Measurement System 
testing for cars and light commercial 
vehicles, providing real world driving 
analysis of vehicle tailpipe emissions on 
public roads rather than in a laboratory.
Our European Centre of Excellence for 
high-end automotive powertrain testing 
and engineering services, which was 
recognised across Europe as the ‘Engine 
Test Facility of the Year’ in the 2015 
Automotive Testing Technology Awards, 
has also invested in low carbon vehicle, 
high performance electric machine and 
hybrid testing cells to enable our 
automotive customers to reach their 
goals on air quality emissions and  
CO
2
 reduction. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 28
Strategic report – Operating review
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
The Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division had good growth and 
benefited from restructuring carried out within Europe.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Total revenue was £183.8m, up 5.5% at 
constant exchange rates. At actual rates 
total revenue was up 6.2%.
Total adjusted operating profit was 
£22.3m, up 18.0% at constant exchange 
rates with an 130bps increase in margin 
on the prior year, primarily due to 
restructuring activities and strong 
performance in lubricants testing. Total 
adjusted operating profit at actual rates 
increased by 19.9%. 
Our Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division 
delivered strong organic growth of 5.5% 
with improved margin. 
We continue to benefit from good 
growth in the health and beauty sector 
as our customers invest in the 
development and global roll out of 
innovations to differentiate their brands.
The increase in demand in emerging 
markets for better health and beauty 
products is creating strong growth 
opportunities for our testing and 
assurance services.
Our Health, Environmental and 
Regulatory business saw strong growth 
in assurance activities as companies 
prepare for the next EU REACH chemical 
restriction regulatory deadline.
In September we opened a world class 
immunochemistry laboratory in 
Manchester. The new facility will help  
our pharmaceutical clients to navigate 
the many technical challenges associated 
with bringing biological medicine to  
the market.
2016 OUTLOOK
In 2016 we expect our Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals business to deliver  
good organic growth.
We will continue to leverage a good 
pipeline of new pharma products in both 
the USA and in the UK.
We will support our existing and new 
customers based on the breadth and 
depth of our assurance solutions as they 
increase their focus on the management 
of regulatory risk.
MID- TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals benefits 
from long-term structural growth drivers 
including product variety, brand and 
supply chain expansion, product 
innovation and regulation, and the 
increasing quality and sustainability 
demands by developed and emerging 
economies globally. 
Through these trends we expect long-
term continuing growth from expanding 
investment in quality.
Financial highlights 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Organic 
change at
constant rates
Revenue 183.8 173.1 6.2% 5.5% 5.5%
Adjusted operating profit 22.3 18.6 19.9% 18.0%
Adjusted operating margin 12.1% 10.7% 140bps 130bps
KEY BUSINESS LINES
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
SERVICES & CUSTOMERS
Serving a wide range of industries, 
including chemicals and refined 
products, pharmaceutical, healthcare 
and beauty, and automotive and 
aerospace, the division offers advanced 
laboratory measurement and expert 
consultancy related technical support 
services and sustainability solutions.  
It has an established track record of 
success in laboratory outsourcing with 
many large, internationally recognised 
companies. The division’s world 
leading technical experts also support 
internal technical development.  
Our customers include leading brands 
and suppliers of products and R&D  
to the pharma industries, makers of 
healthcare and beauty products,  
and a wide range of industrial and 
consumer-facing corporations who use 
our expertise to help them develop the 
materials and chemicals of the future.
STRATEGY
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals supports 
our customers as they develop new 
products, materials and technologies,  
as they anticipate and meet their end-
customers quality demands and as they 
anticipate and meet new regulations.
£183.8m
Revenue
£22.3m
Adjusted Operating Profit 29 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASE STUDY
Intertek helps research  
into more effective  
inhaled medicines
Intertek worked with academics 
from King’s College London and 
The University of Parma, Italy,  
to investigate how effective 
formulations can be tailored for 
different inhalation devices. The 
study highlighted that the medicine 
formulation must be co-optimised 
with the device during product 
development. 
Conducting research such as this 
enables our experts to help global 
clients to develop more effective 
therapies for asthma, Cystic 
Fibrosis, Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary disease and other 
serious conditions. For over 20 
years, we have built a reputation 
for providing outstanding and 
responsive customer service for 
challenging pharmaceutical 
development which includes 
specialist expertise for inhaled  
drug delivery analysis, stability  
and formulation support. 
CASE STUDY
Janssen PMP partners  
with Intertek to explore 
SANAFOR
®
, a novel 
antimicrobial technology  
for plastics
When Janssen PMP wanted to explore  
a new antimicrobial ingredient for  
plastics they turned to Intertek for  
its unique capabilities in testing novel 
plastic materials.
Our polymer scientists studied how  
easy it was to include this new ingredient 
into plastic materials at our polymer 
processing facility in the Netherlands.  
We then produced test samples, using 
film extrusion and injection moulding,  
and carried out a suite of physical tests. 
Our teams were able to show that it  
was straightforward to include the 
antimicrobial SANAFOR
®
 into plastics  
and to demonstrate suitable performance 
for a wide range of potential applications. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 30
Strategic report – Operating review
Commodities
The Commodities division has grown revenue and margin in its 
Cargo business line, being partially offset by the weaker conditions 
in the Minerals business.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Total revenue was £554.8m, up 3.7%  
at constant exchange rates, primarily due  
to growth in the Cargo and Analytical 
Assessment business. At actual exchange 
rates total revenue was 2.3% higher.
Total adjusted operating profit at 
constant rates was £79.1m, up 21.7% 
versus prior year, with a 220 basis point 
increase in margin supported by 
restructuring activities. Total adjusted 
operating profit was up 20.8% at  
actual rates. 
Our Commodities division delivered  
good organic growth performance of 
3.8% in 2015 with margin improvement 
driven by good organic growth 
performance in both our Cargo/AA 
activities and our Government &  
Trade Services (‘GTS’) businesses. 
Cargo/AA has delivered a consistent 
performance during the year benefiting 
from increased Inspection and Testing 
activities as our existing clients grew their 
cargo volumes and as we gained new 
clients. The business also benefited from 
the expansion of our additive and 
lubricants testing capabilities.
We have also invested in new facilities  
to support the LNG growth of our 
customers in Gladstone, Australia,  
and Papua New Guinea.
Our GTS business delivered strong 
organic growth performance in H1 
benefiting from export volume growth 
with existing clients and from  
new contracts. 
This was partially offset by lower organic 
growth performance in the second half 
of the year as we saw a reduction of 
trade volume in both the Middle East  
and Africa.
Our Mineral business delivered a resilient 
organic growth performance for the full 
year with a slight positive organic growth 
performance in the second half of  
the year.
Providing our customers with bespoke 
trade inspections and testing solutions  
is important to increase our customer 
retention and win new contracts. 
2016 OUTLOOK 
In 2016 we expect our Commodities 
business to deliver a good organic 
growth performance.
Our Cargo/AA operations will benefit 
from the expansion of the new facilities 
in 2015 and will leverage the increased 
volume of Cargo shipments for refined 
products.
Our GTS activities will focus on increasing 
the scope of our export Testing and 
Inspection in the Middle East and  
Africa with existing clients.
MID- TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 
The long-term end-demand for resources 
and energy, development and trading of 
commodities as well as new fuel sources 
will continue to drive growth in this 
division through the cycle.
KEY BUSINESS LINES
Cargo & Analytical Assessment 
Minerals 
Government & Trade Services
SERVICES & CUSTOMERS
Provides independent cargo inspection, 
analytical assessment, calibration and 
related research and technical services 
to the world’s petroleum, mining, 
minerals and biofuels industries. The 
division also provides services to 
governments and regulatory bodies to 
support trade activities that help the 
flow of goods across borders. Our 
customers are global and national 
commodities retailers, traders and 
storage companies, and government-
ministry clients in the Middle East, 
Africa and South America.
STRATEGY
In Commodities, we deliver solutions 
that help our clients protect the value 
of their downstream hydrocarbon 
products during their custody-transfer, 
storage and transportation around the 
world. Our expertise, service 
innovations and advanced analytical 
capabilities allow us to optimise the 
return on our customers’ cargoes and 
help them resolve difficult technical 
challenges. In the mining sector we 
partner with clients along the supply 
chain to validate the quality and  
value of their resources being  
explored, produced and shipped.  
Our independent product assessments 
provide peace-of-mind to our 
government clients that the quality  
of products imported into the  
country meet their standards  
and import processes. 
£554.8m
Revenue
£79.1m
Adjusted Operating Profit
Financial highlights 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Organic 
change at
constant rates
Revenue 554.8 542.4 2.3% 3.7% 3.8%
Adjusted operating profit 79.1 65.5 20.8% 21.7%
Adjusted operating margin 14.3% 12.1% 220bps 220bps 31 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASE STUDY
Intertek supports  
Liquefied Natural Gas  
projects in Australia
Intertek supported the shipment and 
custody transfer of the first cargo from 
the GLNG project, an AU$25 billion 
venture located on Curtis Island in 
Queensland, Australia. The Gladstone-
based project converts gas from coal 
seams to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)  
for export from Australia. 
In October the first cargo left Australia 
for South Korea. Intertek undertook a 
ship survey for the AU$40 million cargo 
by managing independent witness quality 
and quantity testing of the product at 
discharge and loading. Intertek also 
undertook continuous product sampling 
to international standards.
Earlier in the year at Australia’s largest 
onshore oil field at Barrow Island, Western 
Australia, we supported the inaugural 
import of Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG)  
at Chevron’s LNG plant. As part of an 
engagement with Ixom, we undertook 
extensive sampling, surveying, testing  
and dissolved oxygen-monitoring 
initiatives to support the first of three 
MEG imports, a first for the AU$60 
billion Gorgon LNG project. 
We continue to invest in and develop  
our cargo testing network services  
in anticipation of future customer 
requirements and as a result, we opened 
new laboratories in Gladstone and Papua 
New Guinea to support the LNG growth 
in the region.
CASE STUDY
Intertek becomes official  
fuel quality testing partner  
for the FIM
Intertek fuel quality experts and mobile 
testing labs provide testing services  
on-site at race tracks performing real-
time, on-track, fuel compliance testing. 
We are also providing additional expertise 
to ensure that teams comply with the  
FIM fuel regulations. 
As part of the partnership, we will assist 
FIM with fuel approval process support,  
as well as updating FIM management  
on changes to fuel regulations and 
developing quality and testing standards. 
Already an official global partner of  
the FIM (International Motorcycling 
Federation), Intertek became the exclusive 
fuel quality testing services provider for 
FIM race events including Superbike, 
Motocross, Supercross, and Endurance 
including 24h Le Mans.  STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 32
Strategic report – Operating review
Industry & Assurance
The Industry & Assurance division with good growth in Food, Agriculture and Business 
Assurance has been impacted by the decision to exit low value contracts and lower 
levels of capital expenditure by the oil and gas industry.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015
Total revenue was £611.7m, down 3.0% at 
constant exchange rates. This was primarily 
due to the continued low oil price reducing 
capital project work in the year. At actual 
exchange rates revenue was 4.9% lower. 
Total adjusted operating profit at constant 
rates was 27.8% lower at £45.4m with a 
260 basis point reduction in margin. At 
actual rates adjusted operating profit was 
29.6% lower. The reduction in underlying 
margin is due to the revenue decline in our 
Industry Services business.
Our Industry and Assurance division 
delivered, as expected, a mixed 
performance in 2015 with a decline of 
5.8% in organic revenue.
The double-digit organic growth 
performance we delivered in the Food  
& Agriculture and Business Assurance 
businesses was more than offset by the 
continuing challenging trading conditions 
in Industry Services and by the planned 
contract exits.
Our Food & Agriculture businesses are 
benefiting from increased focus on food 
safety requirements, and also from our 
clients’ expansion of their supply chains in 
newer markets like Turkey and Brazil.
The increased focus of corporations  
to manage the intrinsic risks of more 
complex supply chains is an attractive 
source of growth for our Business 
Assurance businesses.
The revenues in Industry Services were 
lower than last year as we saw a reduction 
in volume and increased price pressure in 
the Capex Inspection activities, as well as  
a delay in the maintenance of refineries by 
our main customers. In addition we exited, 
as planned, low-value contracts, which 
represented a full year revenue loss  
of £25m.
As a result of the continuing challenging 
trading conditions in the global oil and gas 
industry, we recorded a non-cash 
impairment charge of £577m against 
Industry Services in the year.
2016 OUTLOOK
In 2016 we expect to deliver strong 
organic growth performance in Food, 
Agriculture and Business Assurance.
Our Agriculture business will benefit from 
the strong growth momentum with our 
existing clients in fast growing markets. 
Our Food business will focus on the 
integration of the FIT acquisition 
capitalising on the growth of the Food 
service sector.
Our Business Assurance business will 
focus on the integration of the DIC 
acquisition and the growth in Supplier 
Audit management.
In 2016 we expect the trading conditions 
in Industry Services to remain challenging 
as we have not yet reached the trough in 
the oil and gas Capex activities given the 
lag between changes in the oil price and 
the Capex investments of our clients.  
Our Industry Services operations will 
focus on cost and capacity management 
in our Capex Inspection businesses while 
continuing to diversify our activities in 
non-Oil Capex Inspection and NDT  
Opex activities.
MID- TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 
We expect oil and gas infrastructure 
markets to recover and that the long-
term growth in Industry Services will be 
driven by global population and energy 
consumption growth, and capex and 
opex spending to support world 
economic growth.
Growing consumer demand for quality 
products and brands in developed and 
developing economies, increasing 
regulations, and public food scandals, 
will continue to drive growth in the  
Food & Agriculture and Business 
Assurance markets.
Financial highlights 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Organic 
change at
constant rates
Revenue 611.7 642.9 (4.9%) (3.0%) (5.8%)
Adjusted operating profit 45.4 64.5 (29.6%) (27.8%)
Adjusted operating margin 7.4% 10.0% (260bps) (260bps)
KEY BUSINESS LINES
Industry Services  
Business Assurance 
Food & Agriculture Services
SERVICES & CUSTOMERS
Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, 
gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, 
construction, food, chemical and 
agricultural industries, the division 
provides a diverse range of services to 
help customers optimise their assets 
and meet global quality standards for 
their products. Our services provide 
clients with independent verification of 
the integrity of new assets being 
constructed, and existing assets being 
maintained, with key services that 
include technical inspection, asset 
integrity management, analytical 
testing, and consulting and training 
services. The division also provides 
quality and safety services to the Food 
and Agri sectors, certification services, 
second-party supplier auditing, 
sustainability data verification and 
process performance analysis. Our 
customers include the owners, 
operators and developers of new and 
existing industrial infrastructure, global 
food and hospitality brands and their 
suppliers, and the world’s agricultural 
trading companies and growers.
STRATEGY
We help our customers to manage risk 
and optimise the returns of their 
infrastructure assets across a wide range 
of industrial sectors. By partnering with 
Intertek, our customers gain peace-of-
mind that their projects will proceed and 
their assets will operate with a lower risk 
of technical failure or delay.
£611.7m
Revenue
£45.4m
Adjusted Operating Profit 33 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASE STUDY
Intertek helps safeguard 
new Queensferry Crossing
Intertek is providing corrosion 
monitoring equipment and software 
that will be used to safeguard the new 
Queensferry Crossing. When opened in 
2016, the bridge will cross the Firth of 
Forth in Scotland, allowing vehicles, 
pedestrians and cyclists to pass 
between Edinburgh and Fife. 
Structural health monitoring system 
supplier Strainstall will provide a 
complete health monitoring system  
for the new 2.7-km cable-stayed bridge. 
Intertek’s corrosion data monitoring 
Concerto units will form a key part  
of the system, providing details of the 
integrity of the concrete within the 
structure. Overall, 120 units will be 
installed which will relay information 
between one another and send data  
to a central hub. This information will 
be used by engineers to assess when 
maintenance is required on the bridge.
CASE STUDY
Intertek helps drive down 
road traffic accidents
According to the World Health 
Organization, injuries related to road 
traffic accidents are the eighth leading 
cause of death globally. An estimated 
1.4 million people die of traffic-related 
injuries each year and approximately 
20-50 million are seriously injured.
In order to help our customers  
reduce their own road traffic risks,  
we became accredited in 2015 to  
certify to ISO 39001, the international 
standard for Road Traffic Safety 
Management Systems.
ISO 39001 helps organisations 
implement road safety management 
systems to improve traffic safety and 
reduce the number of persons killed or 
severely injured in road traffic incidents. 
The addition of ISO 39001 accreditation 
complements our range of risk 
management solutions including 
Business Continuity Management  
(ISO 22301), Asset Management  
(ISO 55001), to which Intertek became 
accredited in 2015, and Supplier 
Management Assessments which help 
organisations mitigate risk, reduce 
environmental impact and minimise 
operating costs.
CASE STUDY
Intertek provides 
technical services for 
1,850km gas pipeline
Intertek was awarded a contract by 
Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline 
(TANAP) to provide services that will 
allow the pipeline to operate safely 
as well as help minimise flow and 
contamination risks to the gas 
running through it. 
This natural gas pipeline, due to be 
completed in 2018, will run from 
Azerbaijan through Turkey to Europe 
and is expected to carry 16 billion 
cubic metres of gas a year. 
Through a combination of technical 
inspection, quality assurance and 
pipe testing services, Intertek will 
ensure the quality and integrity of 
the line pipe, verifying material, 
dimensions, welding, coating and 
other parameters to meet the client’s 
specifications as well as industry 
standards and requirements. +3.5% +3.2%
Revenue up to £2,166m
+6.5% +4.7%
Adjusted diluted EPS
£231m
Acquisitions
+27%
Free cash flow
+5.9% +4.0%
Adjusted operating  
profit up to £343m
+6.5%
Dividend per share
£112m
Organic investment spend
£577m
Industry Services impairment
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 34
Strategic report
Financial Review
Good revenue performance across the 
Products- and Trade-related divisions was 
partially offset by the continued downturn 
in Industry Services. Focus on cost 
efficiencies delivered good margin 
accretion for the Group.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT COMMENTARY 
Revenue for the year was £2,166.3m, up 3.5% (up 3.2%  
at constant exchange rates), with organic revenue growth  
of 1.6% at constant exchange rates.
The Group’s adjusted operating profit was £343.4m, up  
5.9% on the prior year (up 4.0% at constant exchange rates). 
The adjusted operating margin was 15.9% compared with 
15.5% in the prior year. 
The Consumer Goods division has continued to grow well  
with strong growth in Softlines.
The Commercial & Electrical division has grown revenue  
well with good growth particularly within Transportation 
Technologies. 
The Commodities and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals divisions 
both delivered good growth and strong margin accretion as  
a result of restructuring projects and operating leverage.
The Industry & Assurance division delivered strong growth  
in the Food & Agriculture and Business Assurance businesses. 
The Industry Services business continued to be impacted by  
the reduction in energy capital expenditure by major customers, 
resulting in an impairment being recorded of £577.3m.
The impairment is included in Separately Disclosed Items of 
£626.9m (2014: £47.8m) and resulted in the Group’s total 
operating loss for the year of £283.5m (2014: profit £276.6m).
NET FINANCING COSTS
The Group had an adjusted net financing cost of £24.2m  
(2014: £24.2m) in the year. This comprised £1.0m (2014: £1.8m) 
of finance income and £25.2m (2014: £26.0m) of finance 
expense. The total interest charge included £nil (2014: £0.2m) 
related to Separately Disclosed Items.
TAX
The Group effective tax rate on adjusted profit before income 
tax was 24.3% (2014: 24.0%). The statutory tax charge, 
including the impact of SDIs, of £39.3m (2014: £61.8m), 
equates to an effective rate of (12.8)% (2014: 24.5%) and  
the cash tax on adjusted results is 22.2% (2014: 22.5%).  
The statutory tax charge, excluding the impact of SDIs,  
is £77.5m (2014: £72.0m).
The OECD’s ‘Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)’ project is 
one of the most significant multilateral initiatives for modifying 
international tax rules. In October 2015, the OECD released its 
final proposals outlining recommendations in respect of each  
of the action points coming out of this project. 
As these recommendations are introduced into local tax 
legislation, we will need to manage the Group’s exposure to 
income tax across a large number of fiscal regimes. The Group’s 
goal is to efficiently manage its tax affairs, whilst fulfilling its 
responsibilities to the countries in which it operates.
 “This year we have strengthened the 
Group’s overall financial position 
through good growth, improved 
profitability across the business,  
value-enhancing acquisitions and 
focused operational efficiency initiatives 
driving strong cash conversion. We also 
took the important step of recording 
an impairment charge against the 
Industry Services business.”
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer
Financial highlights 2015
 Actual  Constant rates 35 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Five year performance
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence) Dividend per share
3
 (pence)
+7%CAGR
2
2015
2014
140.7
132.1
2013 138.6
2012 131.2
2011 107.2
+12%CAGR
2
2015
2014
52.3
49.1
2013 46.0
2012 41.0
2011 33.7
1.  Presentation of results: To provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s business, the figures discussed in this review are 
presented before Separately Disclosed Items (see note 3 of the financial statements). A reconciliation between Adjusted operating profit and Profit for the year is set out in note 2 to the 
financial statements.
2. CAGR represents the compound annual growth rate from 2011 to 2015. 
3. Dividend per share for 2015 is based on the interim dividend paid of 17.0p (2014: 16.0p) plus the proposed final dividend of 35.3p (2014: 33.1p).
Results for the year
Key financials
2015
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 2,166.3 2,093.3
Adjusted Group operating profit 343.4 324.4
Adjusted diluted EPS 140.7p 132.1p
Statutory Group operating (loss)/profit (283.5) 276.6
Statutory diluted EPS (224.2)p 108.8p
Adjusted cash flow from operations 465.7 403.7
Dividend per share 52.3p 49.1p
Dividends paid in the year 80.7 75.5
The underlying performance of the business, by division, is shown in the table below:
Revenue Adjusted operating profit
Notes
2015
£m
Change at
actual rates
%
Change at
constant
rates
%
2015
£m
Change at
actual rates
%
Change at
constant
rates
%
Consumer Goods 2 404.3 7.7 4.4 136.1 9.1 4.4
Commercial & Electrical 2 411.7 14.5 10.5 60.5 18.6 13.9
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 2 183.8 6.2 5.5 22.3 19.9 18.0
Commodities 2 554.8 2.3 3.7 79.1 20.8 21.7
Industry & Assurance 2 611.7 (4.9) (3.0) 45.4 (29.6) (27.8)
2,166.3 3.5 3.2 343.4 5.9 4.0
Net financing costs 14 (24.2) –
Adjusted profit before income tax 319.2 6.3 4.4
Income tax expense 6 (77.5) 7.6
Adjusted profit for the year 241.7 5.9 4.0
Adjusted diluted EPS 7 140.7p 6.5 4.7
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share  
(‘EPS’) of 140.7p (2014: 132.1p). Diluted EPS after SDIs  
was (224.2)p (2014: 108.8p) per share, and basic EPS  
was (224.2)p (2014: 109.5p).
DIVIDEND
The Board recommends a full year dividend of 52.3p per share, 
an increase of 6.5%. This recommendation reflects the Group’s 
significant growth prospects, strong financial position and the 
Board’s confidence in the Group’s structural growth drivers  
into the future.
The full year dividend of 52.3p represents a total cost of 
£84.4m or 37% of adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 
of the Group for 2015 (2014: £78.9m and 37%). The dividend 
is covered 2.7 times by earnings (2014: 2.7 times), based  
on adjusted diluted earnings per share divided by dividend  
per share. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 36
Strategic report
Financial Review continued
SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS (‘SDIs’)
A number of items are separately disclosed in the financial 
statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with a 
clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating 
performance of the Group’s business.
When applicable, these SDIs include amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit 
or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed 
assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost 
of any fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims 
and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity to 
the income statement and unrealised market gains/losses on 
financial assets/liabilities.
In 2015, an impairment charge against goodwill of £481.4m 
(2014: £nil), against other intangible assets of £60.3m (2014: 
£nil) and against property, plant & equipment of £35.6m  
(2014: £nil), in total £577.3m, has been incurred in relation to 
our Industry Services business. The oil and gas sector in which 
this CGU operates has experienced a significant downturn with 
a material reduction in capital and operating expenditure by its 
main customers. Further details are given in Note 9 to the 
financial statements.
Other intangible assets were also reviewed for impairment, 
which included a strategic review of IT and the systems 
landscape for potential obsolescence. As a result, an 
impairment of £12.1m of IT assets related to computer software 
has been recorded in the year.
The SDIs charge for 2015 also comprised amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles £21.4m (2014: £20.8m); acquisition  
costs relating to successful, active or aborted acquisitions 
£5.8m (2014: £3.5m); a further £6.7m (2014: £23.5m) in 
relation to restructuring businesses and making redundancies; 
and material claims and settlements £3.6m (2014: £nil).
Further information on Separately Disclosed Items is given  
in note 3 to the financial statements.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators  
(‘KPIs’) to monitor the financial performance of the Group and 
operating divisions. These metrics are disclosed on page 21.
The rate of return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) measures the 
efficiency of Group investments. This is a key measure to assess 
the efficiency of investment decisions and is also an important 
criterion in the decision-making process when projects are 
competing for limited funds.
Proforma 2015 ROIC of 16.9% as stated on page 21 excludes 
the impact of the PSI acquisition on 23 November 2015 and 
excludes the impairment of assets recorded as at 31 December 
2015 to provide a meaningful comparative.
ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENT
The Group’s strategy is to invest both organically and by 
acquiring complementary businesses, enabling it to take 
advantage of the strong long-term structural growth drivers in 
the quality industry and continually offer the latest technologies 
and services in the locations demanded by clients.
Acquisitions
The Group completed four acquisitions in the year with a 
purchase price of £231.3m, net of cash acquired of £5.9m.
In February 2015, the Group acquired Adelaide Inspection 
Services Pty Ltd (‘AIS’) for £6.5m (£6.3m net of cash acquired), 
an Australian-based business providing non-destructive testing 
and associated services to the power generation, construction, 
oil, gas and mining industries.
In September 2015, the Group acquired Dansk Institut for 
Certificering A/S (‘DIC’), a company that provides business 
assurance services to a wide range of industries including 
Hospitality, Transport and Food. 
In October 2015, the Group acquired MT Group LLC  
and Materials Testing Lab, Inc, (together ‘MT’), a leading 
provider of materials testing and inspection services to  
the building industry.
In November 2015, the Group completed the acquisition  
of PSI for a purchase price of £220.0m (£215.4m net of cash 
acquired). PSI is a provider of industry-leading testing and 
assurance services to the commercial and civil construction 
markets and non-destructive testing for onshore pipelines  
in the USA.
These acquisitions provide valuable additional service lines and 
new geographic locations for the Group, and will help drive 
profitable revenue growth. The more significant acquisition, 
PSI, enables Intertek Building Products to offer a nationwide 
testing and assurance service portfolio across the whole project 
and building lifecycle, including geotechnical services, materials 
testing, and property and environmental assurance services. It 
will also expand our existing US Industry Services NDT business 
with a complementary regional footprint and enable us to offer 
a wider portfolio of services in this area.
Organic investment
The Group also invested £112.2m (2014: £109.5m) organically 
on lab expansions, new technologies and equipment and other 
facilities. This investment represented 5.2% of revenue (2014: 
5.2%) which was in line with prior year. 37 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT
Cash flow
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash 
resources to fund its investment plans. One of the key metrics 
for measuring the ability of the business to generate cash is 
cash flow from operations. Due to the cash payments 
associated with the SDIs, and to provide a complete picture of 
the underlying performance of the Group, adjusted cash flow 
from operations is shown below to illustrate the cash generated 
by the Group:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
%
Cash flow from operations 442.3 386.8 14.3%
Add back: cash flow relating to 
SDIs
23.4 16.9
Adjusted cash flow from 
operations
465.7 403.7 15.4%
Add back: special contributions 
to pension schemes
2.8 0.9
Cash flow for cash conversion 468.5 404.6 15.8%
Cash conversion % 136.4% 124.7%
The components of free cash flow are summarised below:
Free cash flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Adjusted operating profit 343.4 324.4
Add back: depreciation and amortisation 85.2 76.3
Movement in working capital  
and provisions 26.8 (4.1)
Net capital expenditure (110.9) (108.5)
Other* (109.3) (103.3)
Free cash flow 235.2 184.8
*  Other includes exceptionals, special contributions to pension schemes, interest paid/received, 
tax and non-cash items.
Five year trend – adjusted cash flow from operations (£m) 
+10%CAGR
1
2015
2014
465.7
403.7
2013 394.1
2012 345.4
2011 314.8
1. CAGR represents the compound annual growth rate from 2011 to 2015.
Net debt
Net debt has increased from £633.5m at 31 December 2014  
to £775.4m at 31 December 2015 principally as a result of 
drawdowns on existing facilities to fund the PSI acquisition  
as explained above.
In the year, the Group drew on facilities it had in place at 
31 December 2014, as well as a further US$60m made available 
by the extension of an existing bilateral term loan facility. In 
addition, US$100m of Senior Notes were repaid in the year.  
The Group has a well-balanced loan portfolio with a maturity 
profile as shown below, to enable the funding of future  
growth opportunities.
Borrowings by maturity profile
33%
41%
26%
Less than two years
Two to ﬁve years
Over ﬁve years
Under existing facilities the Group has available debt headroom 
of £286m at 31 December 2015. The components of net debt 
at 31 December 2015 are outlined below:
1 January
2015
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
31 December
2015
£m
Cash 119.5 8.0 (11.5) 116.0
Borrowings (753.0) (106.4) (32.0) (891.4)
Total net debt (633.5) (98.4) (43.5) (775.4)
To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement 
volatility in relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, 
the Group ensures that any foreign currency borrowings are 
matched to the value of its overseas assets in that currency (an 
‘effective’ hedge).
The Group borrows primarily in US dollars and any currency 
translation exposures on the borrowings are offset by the 
currency translation on the US dollar and US dollar-related 
overseas assets of the Group. The composition of the Group’s 
gross borrowings in 2015, analysed by currency is as follows:
Borrowings by currency
8%
91%
1%
USD
Euro
GBP STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 38
Strategic report
Financial Review continued
FOREIGN CURRENCY MOVEMENTS
The Group transacts in over 80 currencies, and revenue and 
profit are impacted by currency fluctuations. However, the 
diversification of the Group’s revenue base provides a partial 
dilution to this exposure.
At constant exchange rates, revenue grew 3.2% (actual 
exchange rates 3.5%) and adjusted operating profit grew  
4.0% (actual exchange rates 5.9%).
The exchange rates used to translate the statement of financial 
position and the income statement into sterling for the five 
most material currencies used in the Group are shown below:
Statement of financial
position rates
Income
statement rates
Value of £1 2015 2014 2015 2014
US dollar 1.48 1.55 1.53 1.65
Euro 1.36 1.28 1.38 1.24
Chinese renminbi 9.61 9.65 9.62 10.15
Hong Kong dollar 11.48 12.04 11.87 12.80
Australian dollar 2.03 1.91 2.04 1.83
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Details of the 
Group’s significant accounting policies are shown in note  
1 to the financial statements.
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer 39 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Principal risks and uncertainties
RISK FRAMEWORK
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and 
oversight of the Group’s risk management framework which  
is described in the Directors’ Report on pages 52 to 62 and  
78 to 82.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel, 
who report to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive 
Officer respectively, have accountability for reporting the key 
risks that the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes 
in place and any mitigating actions or controls. Both roles 
report to the Audit & Risk Committee, attend its meetings and 
meet with individual members each year as required. 
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for 
the significant countries and for each business line and support 
function. The risk register is updated at least twice each year 
and is used to plan the Group’s internal audit and risk strategy. 
In addition to the risk register, all senior executives and their 
direct reports are required to complete an annual return to 
confirm that management controls have been effectively 
applied during the year. The return covers Sales, Operations,  
IT, Finance and People.
The Risk Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’), comprising 
senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit 
& Risk Committee. The RCA oversees the development of  
the internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and 
risk management procedures, monitors issues and provides 
guidance to management. The RCA makes recommendations 
to the Intertek Executive Management Team and develops  
the Group’s integrated responses to changes in the  
regulatory environment.
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of 
which, including macroeconomic and industry specific cyclical 
risks, are outside the Group’s control. Some risks are particular 
to Intertek’s operations. The principal risks of which the Group 
is aware are detailed on the following pages including a 
commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks. These 
risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular order  
of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or 
regarded as immaterial which could turn out to be material. 
Any of these risks could have the potential to impact the 
performance of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital  
resources and its reputation.
LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability  
of the Group over a five-year period to 31 December 2020,  
by carrying out a robust assessment of the Group’s current 
position and the potential impact of the principal risks and 
uncertainties, including those that would threaten the Group’s 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors have determined that a five-year period is  
an appropriate period over which to provide the viability 
statement of the Group, as the Group’s strategic review  
covers a five-year period.
In addition to the bottom-up strategic review process where 
the prospects of each business line are reviewed, a robust 
assessment has been made of the potential operational and 
financial impacts on the Group of combinations of principal 
risks and uncertainties (as set out in the following pages)  
in a number of severe, but plausible, scenarios, as well  
as the effectiveness of any mitigating actions. 
The Group has a broad customer base across its multiple 
business lines and in its different geographic regions, and is 
supported by a robust Balance Sheet and strong operational 
cash flows. The Board considers that the diverse nature of 
business lines and geographies in which the Group operates 
significantly mitigates the impact that any of these scenarios 
might have on the Group’s viability.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they  
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able  
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall  
due over the period to 31 December 2020.
This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s strategy, 
performance, results, financial condition and reputation.  STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 40
Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Operational
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group 
maintaining and growing its business. 
Ethical breaches and poor quality 
service, either within Intertek’s own 
operations, its supply chain, or by its 
sub-contractors, could damage its 
reputation. A failure to manage any 
subsequent crisis through a lack of 
reactive procedures could also 
exacerbate the potential damage.
• Failure to meet financial performance 
expectations.
• Exposure to material legal claims, 
associated costs and wasted 
management time. 
• Share price may fall.
• Loss of existing or new business.
• Loss of key staff.
• Quality Management Systems; adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed 
by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
• Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
• Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training. 
• Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where 
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely  
to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
• Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual 
employed by the Group, or acting on the Group’s behalf.
• Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that 
senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely 
basis.
• Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group continues to robustly 
defend claims where they are 
without merit, as well as investing 
in staff development, quality 
systems and standard processes  
to prevent operational failures. 
ACCREDITATION The Group relies on being awarded 
and retaining appropriate 
accreditations and affiliations around 
the world in order to provide its 
certification services. 
Illegal use of Intertek marks by others 
abuses the accreditation process and 
risks negative perceptions of Intertek.
• Inability to deliver certain services.
• Inability to operate in certain 
territories.
• Loss of business in the relevant 
industry/country causing damage  
to the Group’s reputation.
• Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in the operations to ensure 
that the Group holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that the 
required operational standards are applied. 
• Accreditor relationship management – Operations are regularly subjected to audit 
and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade 
affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
• Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss of 
accreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group regularly refines its 
quality assurance procedures. 
• While illegal use of Intertek marks 
is a growing problem, the Group 
continues to work with Regulatory 
and Government bodies to identify 
and take swift action where false 
marks are identified. 
PEOPLE RETENTION The Group operates in specialised 
sectors and needs to attract and 
retain employees with relevant 
experience and knowledge in order  
to take advantage of all growth 
opportunities. 
• Poor management succession.
• Lack of continuity.
• Failure to optimise growth. 
• Impact on quality, reputation  
and customer confidence.
• Loss of talent to competitors  
and lost market share.
• HR strategy policies and systems.
• Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
• Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership and expertise.
• Employee surveys.
• Intertek Executive Academy to develop the next generation of global leadership.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• 71 senior managers have been 
through the Intertek Executive 
Academy since 2012.
OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
Any health and safety incident arising 
from our activities. This could result in 
injury to Intertek’s employees, sub-
contractors, customers and/or any 
other stakeholders affected.
• Individual or multiple injuries  
to employees and others.
• Litigation or legal/regulatory 
enforcement action (including 
prosecution) leading to  
reputational damage.
• Loss of accreditation.
• Erosion of customer confidence.
• Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, appropriate 
PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), Health & Safety policies, meetings and 
communication.
• Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount. It is expected 
that Intertek employees will operate to the highest standards of health and safety 
at all times and there are controls in place to reduce incidents.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• There were zero work-related 
fatalities in the year, compared  
to one in 2014. 41 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Operational
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group 
maintaining and growing its business. 
Ethical breaches and poor quality 
service, either within Intertek’s own 
operations, its supply chain, or by its 
sub-contractors, could damage its 
reputation. A failure to manage any 
subsequent crisis through a lack of 
reactive procedures could also 
exacerbate the potential damage.
• Failure to meet financial performance 
expectations.
• Exposure to material legal claims, 
associated costs and wasted 
management time. 
• Share price may fall.
• Loss of existing or new business.
• Loss of key staff.
• Quality Management Systems; adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed 
by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
• Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
• Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training. 
• Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where 
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely  
to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
• Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual 
employed by the Group, or acting on the Group’s behalf.
• Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that 
senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely 
basis.
• Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group continues to robustly 
defend claims where they are 
without merit, as well as investing 
in staff development, quality 
systems and standard processes  
to prevent operational failures. 
ACCREDITATION The Group relies on being awarded 
and retaining appropriate 
accreditations and affiliations around 
the world in order to provide its 
certification services. 
Illegal use of Intertek marks by others 
abuses the accreditation process and 
risks negative perceptions of Intertek.
• Inability to deliver certain services.
• Inability to operate in certain 
territories.
• Loss of business in the relevant 
industry/country causing damage  
to the Group’s reputation.
• Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in the operations to ensure 
that the Group holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that the 
required operational standards are applied. 
• Accreditor relationship management – Operations are regularly subjected to audit 
and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade 
affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
• Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss of 
accreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group regularly refines its 
quality assurance procedures. 
• While illegal use of Intertek marks 
is a growing problem, the Group 
continues to work with Regulatory 
and Government bodies to identify 
and take swift action where false 
marks are identified. 
PEOPLE RETENTION The Group operates in specialised 
sectors and needs to attract and 
retain employees with relevant 
experience and knowledge in order  
to take advantage of all growth 
opportunities. 
• Poor management succession.
• Lack of continuity.
• Failure to optimise growth. 
• Impact on quality, reputation  
and customer confidence.
• Loss of talent to competitors  
and lost market share.
• HR strategy policies and systems.
• Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
• Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership and expertise.
• Employee surveys.
• Intertek Executive Academy to develop the next generation of global leadership.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• 71 senior managers have been 
through the Intertek Executive 
Academy since 2012.
OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
Any health and safety incident arising 
from our activities. This could result in 
injury to Intertek’s employees, sub-
contractors, customers and/or any 
other stakeholders affected.
• Individual or multiple injuries  
to employees and others.
• Litigation or legal/regulatory 
enforcement action (including 
prosecution) leading to  
reputational damage.
• Loss of accreditation.
• Erosion of customer confidence.
• Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, appropriate 
PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), Health & Safety policies, meetings and 
communication.
• Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount. It is expected 
that Intertek employees will operate to the highest standards of health and safety 
at all times and there are controls in place to reduce incidents.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• There were zero work-related 
fatalities in the year, compared  
to one in 2014. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 42
Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Operational
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
AND CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY (‘CSR’)
Continuity: a major incident impacting 
business continuity in terms of 
damage to premises and IT systems 
(potential causes being natural 
disasters, significant accidents and 
incidents, major staff illness, etc.).
Environment: an adverse impact on 
the environment due to inadequate 
sample storage/disposal, and/or 
inappropriate use of materials 
dangerous to the environment. 
Leases: Failure to secure the renewal 
of a critical lease, or having to agree 
unfavourable renewal terms. 
• Potential injury to our people, loss  
of premises permanently or property 
damage for an extended period. 
• Increased environmental impact, 
increased costs, lack of compliance 
with law, regulation or the 
requirements of certification bodies 
and/or customers.
• Damage to reputation and impact on 
customer confidence and share price.
• Business Continuity Plans (‘BCPs’) and Disaster Recovery Plans (‘DRPs’) in place.
• Health & Safety policies, Environmental policy and Sample Storage  
policy implemented. 
• Regular review of leases and pipeline.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• No BCPs or DRPs have had to be 
put in place in 2015, and therefore 
there has been no downtime in 
operational activity, except for 
where tests of BCPs or DRPs  
have been conducted. 
INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVE 
LANDSCAPE
A failure to identify, manage and  
take advantage of emerging and 
future risks. Examples include the 
opportunities provided by new 
markets and customers, a failure to 
innovate in terms of service offering 
and delivery, the challenge of radically 
new and different business models, 
and the failure to foresee the impact 
of, or adequately respond to and 
comply with, changing or new laws 
and regulations.
• Failure to maximise revenue 
opportunities.
• Failure to take advantage of  
new opportunities.
• Lack of ability to respond flexibly. 
• Erosion of market share.
• Impact on share price.
• Sanctions and fines for non-
compliance with new laws, etc.
• Ongoing development of Global Key Accounts (‘GKA’) management.
• Diversification of customer base.
• Focus on new services and acquisitions.
• Tracking new laws and regulations.
• Regular strategic and business line reviews.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group’s results have been 
impacted by the lower levels of 
capital expenditure in the energy 
sector, driven by lower oil prices, 
but more than offset by the diverse 
nature of the Group and its ability 
to grow revenue and manage the 
cost base.
MACRO-ECONOMIC RISK Macro-economic factors such as  
a global/market downturn and 
contraction/changing requirements  
in certain sectors. Further influenced 
by related risks such as potential 
acquisition failure or the effect on 
liquidity of the inability to renew bank 
funding or secure additional funding.
• A sustained downturn in the 
economic cycle can result in a  
lower return on invested capital,  
as revenue and margin levels  
come under pressure.
• Falling market share.
• Shrinking customer base.
• Impact on share price.
• The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and 
geographies. This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region having 
a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group. Where a downturn does 
occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost base whilst retaining its 
core capability to take advantage of the cyclical upturn when it comes.
• This represents an increasing risk 
compared to 2014.
• Commodity prices and particularly 
oil have reduced in the year. 
• Group revenue and margin have 
improved despite GDP growth  
in China and some emerging 
markets starting to slow from 
previous high levels.
• These impacts have been materially 
mitigated by strong cost control 
and restructuring activities.
CYBER AND DATA SECURITY,  
IT SYSTEMS INTEGRITY
Major IT systems integrity issue,  
or data security breach, either due  
to internal or external factors such  
as deliberate interference or power 
shortages / cuts etc.
• Loss of revenue due to down time.
• Potential loss of sensitive data with 
associated legal implications.
• Potential costs of IT systems 
replacement and repair.
• Loss of customer confidence.
• Damage to reputation.
• Information systems policy and governance structure.
• Regular system maintenance.
• Backup systems in place.
• Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved to minimise  
the impact if a failure does occur.
• Global Information Security policies in place.
• Internal and external audit testing.
• This risk represents an increasing 
risk compared to 2014.
• Review of data security performed 
including data storage, retention 
policy, access controls and 
encryption. 43 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Operational
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
AND CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY (‘CSR’)
Continuity: a major incident impacting 
business continuity in terms of 
damage to premises and IT systems 
(potential causes being natural 
disasters, significant accidents and 
incidents, major staff illness, etc.).
Environment: an adverse impact on 
the environment due to inadequate 
sample storage/disposal, and/or 
inappropriate use of materials 
dangerous to the environment. 
Leases: Failure to secure the renewal 
of a critical lease, or having to agree 
unfavourable renewal terms. 
• Potential injury to our people, loss  
of premises permanently or property 
damage for an extended period. 
• Increased environmental impact, 
increased costs, lack of compliance 
with law, regulation or the 
requirements of certification bodies 
and/or customers.
• Damage to reputation and impact on 
customer confidence and share price.
• Business Continuity Plans (‘BCPs’) and Disaster Recovery Plans (‘DRPs’) in place.
• Health & Safety policies, Environmental policy and Sample Storage  
policy implemented. 
• Regular review of leases and pipeline.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• No BCPs or DRPs have had to be 
put in place in 2015, and therefore 
there has been no downtime in 
operational activity, except for 
where tests of BCPs or DRPs  
have been conducted. 
INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVE 
LANDSCAPE
A failure to identify, manage and  
take advantage of emerging and 
future risks. Examples include the 
opportunities provided by new 
markets and customers, a failure to 
innovate in terms of service offering 
and delivery, the challenge of radically 
new and different business models, 
and the failure to foresee the impact 
of, or adequately respond to and 
comply with, changing or new laws 
and regulations.
• Failure to maximise revenue 
opportunities.
• Failure to take advantage of  
new opportunities.
• Lack of ability to respond flexibly. 
• Erosion of market share.
• Impact on share price.
• Sanctions and fines for non-
compliance with new laws, etc.
• Ongoing development of Global Key Accounts (‘GKA’) management.
• Diversification of customer base.
• Focus on new services and acquisitions.
• Tracking new laws and regulations.
• Regular strategic and business line reviews.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• The Group’s results have been 
impacted by the lower levels of 
capital expenditure in the energy 
sector, driven by lower oil prices, 
but more than offset by the diverse 
nature of the Group and its ability 
to grow revenue and manage the 
cost base.
MACRO-ECONOMIC RISK Macro-economic factors such as  
a global/market downturn and 
contraction/changing requirements  
in certain sectors. Further influenced 
by related risks such as potential 
acquisition failure or the effect on 
liquidity of the inability to renew bank 
funding or secure additional funding.
• A sustained downturn in the 
economic cycle can result in a  
lower return on invested capital,  
as revenue and margin levels  
come under pressure.
• Falling market share.
• Shrinking customer base.
• Impact on share price.
• The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and 
geographies. This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region having 
a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group. Where a downturn does 
occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost base whilst retaining its 
core capability to take advantage of the cyclical upturn when it comes.
• This represents an increasing risk 
compared to 2014.
• Commodity prices and particularly 
oil have reduced in the year. 
• Group revenue and margin have 
improved despite GDP growth  
in China and some emerging 
markets starting to slow from 
previous high levels.
• These impacts have been materially 
mitigated by strong cost control 
and restructuring activities.
CYBER AND DATA SECURITY,  
IT SYSTEMS INTEGRITY
Major IT systems integrity issue,  
or data security breach, either due  
to internal or external factors such  
as deliberate interference or power 
shortages / cuts etc.
• Loss of revenue due to down time.
• Potential loss of sensitive data with 
associated legal implications.
• Potential costs of IT systems 
replacement and repair.
• Loss of customer confidence.
• Damage to reputation.
• Information systems policy and governance structure.
• Regular system maintenance.
• Backup systems in place.
• Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved to minimise  
the impact if a failure does occur.
• Global Information Security policies in place.
• Internal and external audit testing.
• This risk represents an increasing 
risk compared to 2014.
• Review of data security performed 
including data storage, retention 
policy, access controls and 
encryption. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 44
Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Legal and Regulatory
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in 
Intertek’s work resulting in disputes 
with clients and/or other relevant third 
parties. Closely linked to the risk of 
engaging in contracts with non-
standard, unfavourable or onerous 
terms, e.g. high or non-existent 
liability caps; liability for consequential 
losses or third party losses; poorly-
defined scope of work etc.
• Financial impact (fines by regulators, 
suspension of accreditation, 
compensation).
• Financial impact from defending  
and settling claims.
• Impact of fines.
• Potential impact on insurance 
premiums. 
• Loss of customer confidence.
• Damage to reputation. Impact  
on share price. 
• Reduction in profitability if contract 
scope creeps or costs escalate and 
prices remain fixed. 
• Potential for disproportionate or 
unquantifiable liabilities if something 
goes wrong and caps are absent  
or inadequate.
• Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate. 
• Claims management policy and process in place.
• All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group  
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database 
so that they can be properly managed. The Group General Counsel reports any 
significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee. External legal counsel is appointed 
where appropriate.
• Insurance liaison – seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover  
for loss where possible.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Additional compliance personnel 
have been employed in the year to 
increase the bandwidth available to 
manage contract reviews and assist 
the wider legal framework.
• Ongoing training and education in 
respect of contractual liabilities 
being assumed.
• Review of approval limits for 
liability caps.
BUSINESS ETHICS Non-compliance with Intertek’s Code 
of Ethics (Code) and/or related laws 
such as anti-bribery, anti-money 
laundering, and fair competition 
legislation. Non-compliance could be 
either accidental or deliberate, and 
committed either by our people or 
sub-contractors.
• Litigation, including significant fines 
and debarment from certain 
territories/activities. 
• Reputational damage. 
• Loss of accreditation.
• Erosion of customer confidence. 
• Impact on share price.
• Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
• Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where 
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to 
adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
• Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual 
employed by the Group, or acting on the Group’s behalf.
• The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal and 
regulatory requirements. There are also extensive internal compliance and audit 
systems to facilitate compliance. Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations 
are uncertain. 
• The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK 
Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy. 
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Ongoing annual confirmations 
ensure that staff verify compliance 
with the Code of Ethics.
• Internal Audit samples that 
contractors have signed the 
Group’s Code.
• During 2015, 249 (2014: 256) HR 
and non-compliance issues were 
reported through the 
whistleblowing hotline and other 
routes. All were investigated with 
51 (2014: 31) substantiated and 
corrective action taken.
Financial
FINANCIAL RISK Risk of theft, fraud or financial 
misstatement by employees. Other 
risks such as impact of FX movements 
on operating margins on cross 
currency contracts.
• Financial losses with a direct impact 
on the bottom line. 
• Large scale losses can affect financial 
results. 
• Potential legal proceedings leading 
to costs and management time. 
• Corresponding loss of value and 
reputation could result in funding 
being withdrawn or provided at 
higher interest rates. 
• Possible adverse publicity.
• The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to ensure  
that the Group’s assets are protected from major financial risks. 
• Treasury policy, management system and framework in place.
• Monthly monitoring of FX variances and remedial actions.
• A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial 
results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also operates a rigorous programme  
of internal audits and management reviews. Independent external auditors review 
the Group’s half year results and audit the Group’s annual financial statements.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Internal audit carried out 64 
reviews in 2015 (81 in 2014).
• ‘Doing Business the Right Way’ 
established as core principle  
within Intertek.
• Review and roll out of 53 core 
mandatory controls for year-end 
compliance certification. 45 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Legal and Regulatory
PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE
LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in 
Intertek’s work resulting in disputes 
with clients and/or other relevant third 
parties. Closely linked to the risk of 
engaging in contracts with non-
standard, unfavourable or onerous 
terms, e.g. high or non-existent 
liability caps; liability for consequential 
losses or third party losses; poorly-
defined scope of work etc.
• Financial impact (fines by regulators, 
suspension of accreditation, 
compensation).
• Financial impact from defending  
and settling claims.
• Impact of fines.
• Potential impact on insurance 
premiums. 
• Loss of customer confidence.
• Damage to reputation. Impact  
on share price. 
• Reduction in profitability if contract 
scope creeps or costs escalate and 
prices remain fixed. 
• Potential for disproportionate or 
unquantifiable liabilities if something 
goes wrong and caps are absent  
or inadequate.
• Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate. 
• Claims management policy and process in place.
• All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group  
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database 
so that they can be properly managed. The Group General Counsel reports any 
significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee. External legal counsel is appointed 
where appropriate.
• Insurance liaison – seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover  
for loss where possible.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Additional compliance personnel 
have been employed in the year to 
increase the bandwidth available to 
manage contract reviews and assist 
the wider legal framework.
• Ongoing training and education in 
respect of contractual liabilities 
being assumed.
• Review of approval limits for 
liability caps.
BUSINESS ETHICS Non-compliance with Intertek’s Code 
of Ethics (Code) and/or related laws 
such as anti-bribery, anti-money 
laundering, and fair competition 
legislation. Non-compliance could be 
either accidental or deliberate, and 
committed either by our people or 
sub-contractors.
• Litigation, including significant fines 
and debarment from certain 
territories/activities. 
• Reputational damage. 
• Loss of accreditation.
• Erosion of customer confidence. 
• Impact on share price.
• Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
• Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where 
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to 
adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
• Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual 
employed by the Group, or acting on the Group’s behalf.
• The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal and 
regulatory requirements. There are also extensive internal compliance and audit 
systems to facilitate compliance. Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations 
are uncertain. 
• The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK 
Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy. 
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Ongoing annual confirmations 
ensure that staff verify compliance 
with the Code of Ethics.
• Internal Audit samples that 
contractors have signed the 
Group’s Code.
• During 2015, 249 (2014: 256) HR 
and non-compliance issues were 
reported through the 
whistleblowing hotline and other 
routes. All were investigated with 
51 (2014: 31) substantiated and 
corrective action taken.
Financial
FINANCIAL RISK Risk of theft, fraud or financial 
misstatement by employees. Other 
risks such as impact of FX movements 
on operating margins on cross 
currency contracts.
• Financial losses with a direct impact 
on the bottom line. 
• Large scale losses can affect financial 
results. 
• Potential legal proceedings leading 
to costs and management time. 
• Corresponding loss of value and 
reputation could result in funding 
being withdrawn or provided at 
higher interest rates. 
• Possible adverse publicity.
• The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to ensure  
that the Group’s assets are protected from major financial risks. 
• Treasury policy, management system and framework in place.
• Monthly monitoring of FX variances and remedial actions.
• A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial 
results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also operates a rigorous programme  
of internal audits and management reviews. Independent external auditors review 
the Group’s half year results and audit the Group’s annual financial statements.
• This risk remains stable compared 
to 2014.
• Internal audit carried out 64 
reviews in 2015 (81 in 2014).
• ‘Doing Business the Right Way’ 
established as core principle  
within Intertek.
• Review and roll out of 53 core 
mandatory controls for year-end 
compliance certification. Strategic report
Sustainability and CSR
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 46
Intertek has a rich heritage upon which  
a successful organisation has been built, 
with a reputation for having strong ethical 
values and behaviours. Doing business the 
right way is at the very heart of who we  
are and what we stand for.
I am delighted that in 2015 Intertek joined the Sustainable 
Apparel Coalition (‘SAC’) to support the Higg Index and help 
improve supply chain sustainability across the global apparel 
and footwear industries. Intertek also became a certified 
assessor of the Business Environmental Performance Initiative 
(‘BEPI’) to support brands and retailers aiming to improve 
supply chain environmental performance. More about these 
can be read on page 47.
Our talented people are passionate about their work  
and provide assurance to clients across the world in almost 
every market.
Making sure that our culture recognises our people for their 
contribution and creates opportunities for personal growth  
is very important to me and we regularly review our personal 
development and recognition programmes. Our employees are 
also encouraged to email me directly with their views through 
our internal communications channels.
The health and safety of all those who conduct work for, or on 
behalf of, Intertek and those who visit our premises is of course 
our priority. And, while we have reported an increase in lost 
time and medical treatment injuries overall for 2015, this is 
largely due to improvements in our global reporting processes 
(more details on page 50).
This report describes Intertek’s sustainability performance for 
2015 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help our 
customers manage their operations and produce products and 
services in a sustainable and ethical manner.
We remain committed to reducing our own ecological footprint 
and will continue to drive environmental initiatives throughout 
our operations.
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
 “Our employees are helping companies 
around the world to develop products 
that are used safely by millions of 
people every day.”
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
IN THIS SECTION
4 7  O u r b u s i n e s s
  How we are making a positive contribution to society 
and the planet through our work for clients.
4 8  O u r p e o p l e
  Our commitment to the development and well-being  
of our people.
5 0  O u r e n v i ron m e n t 
  Understanding our impact on the environment  
and taking action.
5 1  O u r c o mm u n i tie s 
 Engaging and partnering with local communities. 47 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our business
Intertek is the trusted quality partner of many of the world’s 
leading brands and companies. We help our clients to ensure 
the quality and safety of their products, assets and processes to 
protect their brands and gain competitive advantage. 
We enable our clients to improve their performance, gain 
efficiencies in manufacturing and logistics, overcome market 
constraints and reduce risk. Our services span almost every 
industry, from textiles, toys and electronics, to building, 
heating, pharmaceuticals, petroleum, food, and cargo 
inspection. Through our services, we help our clients to improve 
the social, ethical, safety and environmental impact of their 
services, supply chains and products that are used by millions  
of people around the world.
SUSTAINABLE COALITIONS
Intertek has joined the SAC and will use their sustainability 
measurement tool, the Higg Index, to drive environmental 
responsibility. Membership to SAC means that Intertek joins 
more than 160 global brands, retailers and manufacturers,  
as well as government, non-profit environmental organisations 
and academic institutions that are collectively committed to 
improving supply chain sustainability in the apparel and 
footwear industries.
Intertek will contribute both data and resources to support  
the Higg Index, which gauges environmental sustainability  
and drives supply chain decision-making to improve efficiency 
and sustainability impacts. The Higg Index is an open source, 
indicator-based tool that allows suppliers, manufacturers, 
brands and retailers to evaluate materials, products, facilities 
and processes based on environmental and product  
design choices.
In 2015, Intertek was approved as an assessor by the Business 
Environmental Performance Initiative. Under the BEPI, Intertek 
certifies that an organisation’s standards and principles show 
commitment to improving environmental impact, while 
reducing business risks and costs associated with enhanced 
environmental processes. Intertek’s onsite environmental 
assessments are conducted for brands and retailers aiming  
to improve supply chain environmental performance as a  
result of applying more efficient processes and best in class 
environmental systems at the production level.
BEPI is a voluntary environmental initiative by the Foreign  
Trade Association (‘FTA’), which focuses on trade policy and 
global supply chain compliance to an existing social compliance 
programme, Business Social Compliance Initiative, which has 
been in place for 12 years. The FTA has more than 1,000 
members including retailers, importers and brands committed 
to improving supply chain corporate social responsibility 
performance. 
RESPONDING TO DEVELOPMENTS IN VEHICLE  
EMISSIONS LEGISLATION
Intertek has been swift to respond to recent changes in pan-
European regulations for light duty vehicle exhaust emissions. 
The legislation mandates for manufacturers to report exhaust 
emissions and fuel consumption figures from real-world driving 
in a variety of road and traffic conditions. This legislative 
change comes in part as a response to public disquiet about the 
disparity between officially published laboratory test data and 
real world figures on fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
Intertek can now offer real world driving analysis of vehicle 
tailpipe emissions using its new Portable Emissions 
Measurement System. This new equipment is vehicle mounted, 
thereby allowing manufacturers to report real world driving 
emissions on public roads rather than in a laboratory on a wide 
variety of cars and light commercial vehicles, see page 27. 
INNOVATING AND SUPPORTING RENEWABLE  
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
During 2015, Intertek partnered with the Center for the 
Evaluation of Clean Energy Technology to offer a first in  
the renewable energy industry in North America – a mobile 
platform for testing photovoltaic (‘PV’) modules. This mobile 
testing laboratory complements Intertek’s wide range of quality 
assurance services for solar products and installations at fixed 
laboratory locations. The Mobile PV Test center can quickly 
verify PV product quality and efficacy in the field to identify  
and find solutions for underperforming modules.
STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE
Intertek’s Board of Directors oversees and has the responsibility 
for setting the Group’s strategy and performance and risk 
management (see pages 52 to 62 and 78 to 82). The Board 
acknowledges the importance of diversity in the boardroom  
as a key component of good governance. As at 31 December 
2015, the Board’s composition was 30% female and 70% male 
and for the senior leadership group (339 people at the end of 
2015), 22% female and 78% male. To read more about our 
Board Diversity, see page 84. 
Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through 
policy distribution. Our operations and support functions are 
responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable to 
their areas of the business and the design and operation of 
suitable internal controls (see ‘Principal Risks and Uncertainties’ 
on pages 39 to 45). The Board has overall accountability for 
Intertek’s sustainability and CSR, and the Group-wide strategy 
and implementation are the responsibility of the Senior Vice 
President of ATIC Customer Service and Operational Excellence.  Strategic report
Sustainability and CSR continued
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 48
Our people 
Intertek is a people business, and it is important that our 
41,400 people working globally for customers are engaged in 
what we do and continue to add value in their roles. To achieve 
this it is important to consider how we give people 
opportunities, how we integrate people into our mission and 
values, engaging and inspiring our people to deliver our mission 
and live our lives across our global business in a way that our 
stakeholders expect. 
ENGAGING AND RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE 
Our aim is to engage and retain the best available people who 
share the mission and values of Intertek. Prospective employees 
are sourced through a variety of channels, depending on the 
location and role, in compliance with local regulations for fair 
recruitment practices and equal opportunities. Jobs at Intertek 
are posted via our website (www.intertek.com/careers), 
recruitment agencies, social media, print advertisements, 
professional bodies and associations, and schools, colleges  
and universities. Where possible, we fill vacancies from within 
the Company first, in order to offer people career growth  
and progress within the Group. Intertek is an Equal 
Opportunities Employer and all qualified applicants are 
considered for employment regardless of gender, race,  
religion or national origin.
AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
In China, where Intertek employs around 9,600 people,  
the business has been recognised for the eighth time 
consecutively as one of the top 100 companies in human 
resource management in 2015. This year, our Employee  
Care Plan was recognised as one of the best, together with  
11 other world-renowned companies. Hosted by 51job.com,  
the award recognises the HR practices which have made  
a significant contribution to the employee experience and  
their personal development.
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE
Our goal is to hire, engage and retain the best people and 
provide potential leaders of Intertek with the skills sets needed 
to grow our business. We want our people to grow by learning 
new skills to help them advance their careers and deliver the 
best possible service to our customers. Our talent mapping 
process is critical to the future success of our organisation  
to meet business strategy and growth needs. 
During the year, nearly 100 Intertek managers have 
participated in our UK Management Development Programme. 
The 10-month course developed people’s competencies, 
seeking to bring improvements to customer service and higher 
confidence levels. Going forward into 2016, 60 more Intertek 
people will take part in the programme.
Intertek continued its scholarship programme in the USA to 
support the development of students in science, technology, 
engineering and maths (‘STEM’) related education to the 
amount of $50,000 each year.
Female:Male by region
8,588
11,438
2,850
Americas
11,276
19,557
8,281
Asia
7,115
10,439
3,324
EMEA (inc Central)
Female Male
Intertek’s gender diversity reflects the industries and 
qualification profiles typical of individuals working in the 
countries and business lines in which we operate. 
Intertek total workforce by gender
65% 35% Female
Male
At 31 December 2015 Intertek employed 41,434 people, an 
increase of 7.9% over the previous year. 
Revenue and headcount
2015
2014
2,166
41,434
2,093
38,407
2,184
36,864
2,054
34,882
1,750
31,739
2013
2012
2011
Revenue (£m) Headcount
Total number of Intertek employees over the past five years in 
relation to revenue shows continuing growth in employment 
and careers.  49 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY 
We apply all employment policies and practices, including 
recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions and 
performance management related policies, in a way that is 
informed, fair and objective. As such, our inclusion and diversity 
policy acts to eliminate discrimination so that our employees  
are treated fairly and feel respected and included in our 
workplaces. We are committed to maintaining high standards 
of fairness, respect and safety and adhere to the principles of 
the UN Convention on Human Rights and the International 
Labour Organization’s core conventions.
PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT
Intertek strives to help customers meet quality standards.  
This work takes place in many markets in the world and 
protects them against risk by ensuring compliance with local, 
national and international laws. The validity and accuracy of 
reports and certificates that we provide to our customers and 
maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers, their 
customers and others impacted by our work, are therefore of 
utmost importance to us.
All those working for or on behalf of Intertek are required to 
sign our Code of Ethics upon joining the Company or before 
commencing work on our behalf, confirming acceptance of the 
high standards expected of them in all business dealings. The 
Code sets expectations that employees act with integrity and  
in an open, honest, ethical and socially responsible manner. 
Intertek employees or people acting on Intertek’s behalf are 
responsible for applying the Intertek Code of Ethics in their  
own job role, their part of the business and location. To support 
their continual understanding, they are required to complete 
our Code of Ethics training course annually.
Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues  
of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed 
openly and has a strict policy of zero-tolerance regarding 
breaches of compliance policy. We have a well-publicised 
hotline for all employees, contractors and others representing 
Intertek, to enable confidential reporting of suspected 
misconduct or breaches of the Code.
During 2015 there were 51 reports of non-compliance which 
were substantiated claims requiring remedial action. Reports  
of non-compliance are closely monitored and the Audit & Risk 
Committee reviews the outcomes of the hotline and 
compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
HEALTH & SAFETY
The health, safety and welfare of our people, clients and third 
parties connected with the business, are very important.  
Our aim is to achieve zero lost time accidents and Intertek is 
committed to the continuous review and improvement of its 
health and safety performance. All employees are given training 
on health and safety matters, including emergency response 
procedures and intervention and reporting of accidents, 
incidents and near misses, during on boarding. Where relevant, 
all employees and contractors are provided with personal 
protection equipment when performing work for the Company.
Lines of communication for health and safety matters exist  
at every Intertek location globally. This includes a dedicated  
fire warden, first-aider and health and safety representative. 
These representatives enable us to not only investigate incidents 
and implement preventive and corrective actions but also 
disseminate safety information through toolbox talks and 
continual improvement programmes to target areas of concern.
During 2015, we improved the process for reporting and 
managing incidents through the development and 
implementation of a global online incident reporting tool. 
Access to the tool has now been improved to enable employees 
to report via the intranet or mobile devices. 
As a result, Intertek has achieved an increase in near-miss 
reporting enabling us to proactively manage health and safety. 
During 2015, there was an 11.9% increase in the rate of lost 
time injuries and medical treatment injuries due to increased 
reporting across Intertek. Also, zero occupational fatalities  
were recorded.
2015 2014 2013
Occupational fatalities 0 1 2
Lost time injuries rate* 0.18 0.25 0.34
Medical treatment  
injuries rate*
0.48 0.34 0.36
*  Rates refer to the number of lost-time injuries and medical treatment injuries occurring per 
200,000 hours worked.
In January 2015, our Asset Integrity Management (‘AIM’) 
In-Service Inspection group surpassed four million work hours 
without a lost-time accident or injury. 
In addition, on 9 April 2015 the AIM group reached the one 
million hour mark since the last recordable injury. Strategic report
Sustainability and CSR continued
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 50
Our environment 
We aim to minimise the impact of our operations on the 
environment through reducing energy consumption in our 
buildings and facilities, utilising renewable sources of energy, 
implementing ‘green’ waste management practices, minimising 
business travel, carbon offsetting and operating quality 
management systems. To support this effort, our environmental 
and climate change policy is implemented through country 
management to ensure compliance with local guidelines  
and regulations.
For 2015, Intertek’s electricity consumption was reported to be 
235,873 MWh (5.69 MWh per employee) and gas consumption 
was reported to be 83,172 MWh (2.00 MWh per employee).
In 2013, Intertek developed its Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) 
emissions accounting to include all Intertek operations 
worldwide. Since then, the focus has been on increasing  
the quality of information captured and seeking out how the 
better data collected can add value to the business. The levels 
of GHG emissions have been calculated using the guidelines  
of the GHG protocol and DEFRA and relate to the reporting 
period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
CO
2
e
1
 emissions from activities for which Intertek is  
responsible include: 
GHG Emissions
(tonnes of CO 2e)
1
Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 52,145
operation of facilities 11,583
Scope 2 purchase of electricity,  
heat or steam 137,024
Outside of scope 714
Total emissions 201,466
Intensity ratios
2015 CO
2
e per employee 4.86 
2014 CO
2
e per employee 5.29
2013 CO
2
e per employee 5.75
1. CO 2e – Carbon dioxide equivalent. 
It is important to ensure full completeness of the business’s 
GHG emissions globally. To achieve this actual data were 
compiled for all the major operating countries and, where 
necessary, to cover some sites that were not able to provide 
data some figures were extrapolated. Extrapolation was based 
on equivalent activity data figures, i.e. electricity and gas 
consumption, of one employee and then multiplied by the 
actual amount people at sites. This was not the case for minor 
contributions such as fugitive emissions. Where sites provided 
data covering only part of the year where, figures were 
extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
In relation to Intertek’s Scope 3 emissions (indirect GHG 
emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by 
Intertek but which relate to the business’ activities), there are  
a number of programmes in place which focus on waste 
management, water management and business travel. These 
programmes seek to reduce GHG emissions in our supply chain.
BETTER INFORMATION 
Better data collection has permitted the identification of 
opportunities within Intertek sites to increase internal 
efficiencies. A good example of this approach is the collection 
of granular electricity data in our biggest spending and biggest 
user of electricity, our US business. This has permitted more 
accurate GHG emissions reporting and the more cost-effective 
procurement of electricity. 
Our Transportation Technologies business has implemented 
several electricity-producing dynamometers in its Milton  
Keynes facility in the UK. In 2015, the energy savings have  
been significant resulting in a reduction of 74 tonnes of CO
2
e.  
Going forward, this facility expects to self-generate a significant 
amount of its total electricity demand resulting in further  
CO
2
e reductions and significant operating cost reductions.
As the process for accounting for GHG emissions matures more 
accurate data will support a targeted approach of allocating 
carbon budgets, absolute emissions reduction targets and/or 
intensity ratio reduction/improvement targets to sites to further 
implement Intertek’s commitment to tackling climate change.
STANDARDS 
Many Intertek sites have environmental management systems 
which are certified to ISO 14001. Environmental management 
systems support the continuous improvement of energy 
consumption and waste and water management, helping to 
reduce the impact of risk to the environment, control costs and 
improve environmental performance. To this end, in 2015, all of 
the Cargo & Analytical Assessment laboratories in the UK have 
achieved joint ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
As part of Intertek’s environmental management system, there 
are strict controls in place to manage the handling, storage and 
disposal of harmful and hazardous substances to minimise the 
risk of their release into the environment. Intertek employees 
are fully trained in the safe handling of such substances and are 
provided with appropriate equipment and clothing to protect 
themselves and reduce the risk to the environment. A critical 
element of permitting continuous improvement is the reporting 
of all incidents which all employees are required to do. 51 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our communities
Our employees’ cultural values and relationships within the 
communities in which they live and work is important to them, 
to our business and to our clients. Here are some examples of 
how our people helped their local communities during 2015. 
EMEA
In the UK, Intertek’s Exploration and Production business 
continued to inspire youngsters to embark on careers in the 
STEM industries through organising school careers events. 
An Intertek employee led a campaign to raise awareness of, 
and action against, water pollution in her local community in 
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The campaign supported an 
Intertek employee’s personal development of working towards 
an environmental management degree and Intertek South 
Africa’s social development policy.
Intertek employees in Stuttgart, Germany took time away  
from their desks to support their local community by attending 
the annual summer party of Deacon Stetten, a state-owned 
organisation for assisted-living and permanent care of  
mentally and physically disabled people.
Intertek Sweden employees together spent a total of 12 hours 
on exercise bikes in a relay of spinning classes to raise 
awareness and money for the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation. The event, called Spin of Hope, was run 
simultaneously at some 30 fitness centres across Sweden.
APAC
Intertek India organised the inauguration of ‘Swachh Bharat 
Abhiyan Initiative’, a hygiene and sanitation improvement 
project driving the development of the Mohan cooperative 
Industrial Estate in New Delhi. Only 500 metres from Intertek 
India headquarters, the initiative will focus on ensuring the 
cleanliness and upkeep of the area for the local community.  
The initiative, entirely funded by Intertek India to the amount  
of 170 Lakhs (around $250,000) invested over the next few 
years, will help improve the hygiene and sanitation of the area. 
The unveiling of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Initiative, New Delhi, India. 
Intertek Indonesia has extended its social responsibility 
programme by participating in the community’s health 
program, ‘Posyandu’, in Jakarta. The programme aims for  
a healthier community by promoting healthy and hygienic 
practices and by providing basic medical and health  
monitoring services.
In 2015, Intertek China received the ‘Responsibility Case’ Award 
with its public welfare programme ‘Yangtze River Programme’. 
This involved enlisting nearly 100 volunteers to carry out water 
quality testing the river which is 4,000 miles long. Working 
with media and other organisations the profile of clean rivers 
was raised reaching many local communities.
Volunteers on the Yangtze River Programme receiving certificates  
of achievement.
Intertek Bangladesh took the initiative in helping homeless 
people during this year’s cold winter. Our volunteers helped to 
procure 200 blankets, 70 of which were distributed in Dhaka 
city areas and the rest sent to various other parts of the country 
such as North Bengal where the winter was particularly harsh.
AMERICAS
Intertek volunteers in the US spent a day building roof trusses 
for a local home, and constructing a playhouse to be raffled off 
in the community. Together, Intertek and its employees raised 
around $1,000 for Habitat for Humanity of Tompkins and 
Cortland Counties. 
In Mexico, Intertek arranges monthly school visits to its sites 
each year to support students’ education in STEM subjects. 
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board  
on 1 March 2016.
By order of the Board
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
A table outlining the GRI standard and specific disclosures is provided at the end of this 
document on pages 142 and 143.
Sustainability and CSR DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 52
Directors’ report
Chairman’s introduction
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman
FOR MORE DETAIL ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
52 Chairman’s introduction
54  Compliance with the UK  
Corporate Governance Code
56 Board of Directors
58 Leadership
60 Effectiveness
63 Remuneration report
78 Audit & Risk Committee
83 Nomination Committee
85 Other statutory information
88  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
DEAR SHAREHOLDER 
Once again, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 
2015. The Board believes that good governance is key to the 
long-term success of the Group and we shall continue to 
pursue the ‘comply or explain’ approach. Corporate 
Governance lies at the heart of our Company as compliance 
and integrity form part of the foundations upon which our 
values and mission as a Company are based. The Board 
continues to be committed to improving the governance 
framework and the need to demonstrate to shareholders  
that the Company is properly governed in order to support  
the delivery of our strategic and business goals.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CODE (THE ‘CODE’)
The Company is subject to the principles and provisions of  
the Code, which is published and regularly updated by the  
UK Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’). The latest applicable 
update was released in September 2014. A copy of the Code  
is available at www.frc.org.uk. 
I am pleased to report that throughout the year ended 
31 December 2015, the Company has complied with the main 
and supporting principles and provisions of the Code, except 
for provision B.3.3. for the period 14 January to 15 May 2015. 
Wolfhart Hauser was given approval to join the Board of 
Associated British Foods plc as Non-Executive Director, taking 
the number of his non-executive directorships during this 
period to two. The Board considered Wolfhart’s other 
significant commitments and the decision was taken, in view  
of his publicly announced intention to retire, that despite taking 
on a second non-executive directorship he would continue  
to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his 
responsibilities. From 16 May 2015 the Company complied  
fully with the Code.
Overleaf is an overview of the Company’s compliance with the 
Code, which should be read in conjunction with this Corporate 
Governance Report. A fuller explanation of our compliance with 
the Code and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is set 
out on our website at www.intertek.com. 53 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
SUCCESSION PLANNING
As Chairman, I am focused on ensuring that the Board works 
effectively and cohesively under my leadership, with the right 
range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes to ensure 
the continued growth and success of the Group. In making any 
board appointments, the Nomination Committee is careful to 
ensure that it is presented with, and considers, a broad range  
of candidates. With Wolfhart’s retirement in May 2015 one of 
our key priorities has been to ensure and support a smooth 
transition in the role of Chief Executive Officer to André Lacroix. 
Wolfhart remained available to support André as required until 
the end of December 2015. I would like to thank him on behalf 
of the Board and our shareholders for his exceptional leadership 
over the past decade. 
With the retirement of Christopher Knight at the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’), the Nomination Committee focused 
on evaluating the composition of the Board and its 
Committees. We welcomed Gill Rider to the Board as Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
on 1 July 2015. She brings valuable experience to our Board 
and further strengthens our diversity not just in respect of 
gender but also experience, skill and personal attributes.  
With Gill’s appointment we have three women on our Board, 
representing 30%, exceeding the aspirational target of the  
Lord Davies Report that 25% of the Board positions at  
FTSE 100 companies should be filled by women. 
More information on the role and activity of the Nomination 
Committee is detailed on pages 83 and 84.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
As announced last year, the evaluation and performance review 
of the Board and its Committees was undertaken with the 
assistance of an independent party, Egon Zehnder. I am pleased 
to report that the evaluation concluded that the Board and its 
Committees operate effectively, with each Director making 
significant contributions to debate and discussion. Further 
details on the outcome of the evaluation and its process can  
be found on pages 60 and 61.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
During the year we consulted extensively with our shareholders 
and we hope to continue this positive trend in 2016. 
More information about our engagement with shareholders is 
outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on page 62 and 
in the Remuneration report in the letter from the Chairman  
to the Remuneration Committee on page 63.
I am interested in hearing the views of our shareholders and 
ensuring that the Board take these into account when 
considering the strategic direction of the Group. 
BUSINESS FOCUS
A key role for me as Chairman is ensuring that we continually 
strive to have high standards of corporate governance whilst 
ensuring that the right controls are in place to provide the 
Board with the appropriate level of oversight and assurance. 
I hope the following report provides you with more information 
and gives a greater insight into the discussions held at the 
Board and its Committee meetings during the year. 
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 54
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions  
of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), except for provision B.3.3. for the period from 14 January to  
15 May 2015. Further details can be found on page 52. From 16 May 2015 to the date of this Report the Company fully  
complied with the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk.
A. LEADERSHIP A.1 Role of the Board The Board meets formally on a regular basis in order to formulate 
Intertek’s strategy and commercial objectives and to review the 
Company’s performance and strategy against set objectives, whilst 
ensuring the necessary finances and human resources are in place. 
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board as 
detailed on our website at www.intertek.com.
A.2  A clear division   
of responsibilities 
The Company has both a Chairman, who is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and a Chief Executive 
Officer who is responsible for leading the day-to-day management 
of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
A.3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings ensuring 
adequate discussion time especially on strategy, planning and 
execution, manages the meeting timetable and facilitates open  
and constructive dialogue during the meetings. 
A.4  Role of the  
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors actively engage and monitor 
performance and help to develop proposals on strategy. They are 
responsible for determining the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and have a prime role in appointing Executive Directors 
and in succession planning.
B. EFFECTIVENESS B.1 The Board’s composition The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the 
Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate  
mix of skills, experience, independence, knowledge, gender  
and other qualities.
B.2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the 
Nomination Committee. The appointment process is clear, rigorous 
and transparent. Further details of the appointments undertaken 
during the year and succession planning can be found on page 83. 
B.3 Commitment The time commitments of Non-Executive Directors are defined on 
appointment and regularly evaluated. In practice, the time 
commitments go beyond those set out in the Letters of 
Appointment. The Chairman gives consideration to new 
directorships that may impact existing time commitments. 
B.4  Training and   
development
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new 
Directors. The Chairman reviews and discusses training and 
development requirements with each of the Directors. Directors 
attend relevant training as necessary to update their knowledge.
B . 5   I n f o r m a ti on  
and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Company Secretary, 
ensures that all Board members receive timely, accurate and 
effective information using the latest technology.
B.6  Board, Director and  
Committee evaluation
An externally facilitated evaluation was undertaken at the end of 
2015 by Egon Zehnder and is described on pages 60 and 61. 
B.7 Re-election of Directors All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election or election at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), as will be the case at the 2016 
AGM, with the exception of Edward Astle, who is retiring. The 
Directors’ biographies are available on pages 56 and 57 . 55 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
C. ACCOUNTABILITY C . 1  F i n a n c i a l a n d 
business reporting 
The Annual Report and Accounts sets out the performance  
of the Company, the business model, strategy and the risks  
and uncertainties relating to the Company. The Board have 
arrangements in place to ensure that the Annual Report  
and Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects.
C . 2  Ri s k m a n a g e m e n t  
and internal control
The Board sets the Company’s risk appetite to achieve its strategic 
objectives and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s 
risk management and internal control systems. The activities of  
the Audit & Risk Committee, which assist the Board with its 
responsibilities in relation to risk setting and management,  
are set out on page 78 and 79. 
The Company’s long-term viability statement is also set out on 
page 39.
C.3  Audit Committee and 
auditing
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit 
& Risk Committee, which has oversight of the risk management 
framework on behalf of the Board. The Chairman of the 
Committee provides regular reports to the Board.
D. REMUNERATION D.1  The level and
 c o m p on e n t s o f 
remuneration
The levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors, and how this 
promotes the long-term success of the Company, together with an 
alignment of interests between the Directors and shareholders by 
linking reward to performance, are explained in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77.
D . 2  D e v e l op m e n t o f 
remuneration policy  
and packages
The activities of the Remuneration Committee, and the way in 
which it sets executive remuneration, are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77. No Director is involved in 
setting his or her own remuneration.
E.  RELATIONS WITH 
SHAREHOLDERS
E . 1  S h a r eh o l d e r eng ag e m en t 
and dialogue
The Board seeks to actively engage with both institutional and retail 
shareholders. Details of the shareholder engagement programme 
are set out on page 62. 
E.2  Constructive use   
of the AGM
The Board values the AGM as an important opportunity to engage 
with shareholders. Attendees at the AGM have the opportunity to 
put questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors 
following the formal business of the meeting. 
A fuller explanation of our compliance with the 
Code can be found at www.intertek.com.
Compliance with the Code DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 56
Directors’ report
Board of Directors
SIR DAVID REID 
N
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in December 201 1 
and became Chairman in January 2012.  
Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive 
Chairman of Tesco PLC in November 201 1 
after serving in that role since April 2004. 
Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of 
Tesco PLC and had served on the Tesco 
Board since 1985. David is Chairman of the 
charity Whizz-Kidz. In February 2012 he was 
appointed a member of the Global Senior 
Advisory Board of Jefferies International 
Limited, a global securities and investment 
banking group. He was formerly the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director of 
Reed Elsevier Group PLC (now RELX Group), 
Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-
Executive Director at Greenalls Group Plc 
(now De Vere Group), Legal & General 
Group Plc and Westbury plc. 
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive 
Officer in May 2015. André is an 
experienced Chief Executive with a strong 
track record of delivering long-term growth 
strategies and shareholder value with global 
companies across diverse territories. André 
was previously Group Chief Executive of 
Inchcape plc from 2005 to 2015 and prior to 
this he was Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Euro Disney S.C.A. From 1996 to 
2003 he was the President of Burger King 
International, previously part of Diageo. 
André is currently the Senior Independent 
Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and 
Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer in October 2014. He joined Intertek 
in March 2013 as the Group’s Financial 
Controller. Prior to that, Edward spent nine 
years at Dixons Retail plc, where he held 
several senior financial management 
positions, including Divisional & Corporate 
Development Finance Director, UK & Ireland 
CFO and Group Financial Controller. From 
1995 to 2004 Edward held commercial 
financial leadership roles at Procter & 
Gamble Co. covering the UK and 
international markets.
EDWARD ASTLE 
N A
 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in September 2009. Until July 2013, 
he was Pro Rector (Enterprise) at Imperial 
College London where he had overseen the 
university’s relationships with industry, and 
led business development opportunities in 
the UK and internationally. Edward was an 
Executive Director of National Grid plc from 
2001 to 2008, a Managing Director at the 
BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and an 
Executive and Regional Director at Cable  
& Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997 . Previously 
he held senior business strategy positions  
in the UK and France. He is a member of  
the BT Equality of Access Board, a member 
of the Governing Board of the University  
of Manchester and Vice Chair of the 
Shannon Trust.
COMMITTEES:
Nomination 
N
Audit & Risk 
A
Remuneration 
R 57 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ALAN BROWN 
A
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in April 201 1. He is currently Group 
Chief Executive Officer of ASCO Global,  
an international oilfield support services 
business. Alan was Chief Executive Officer 
of Rentokil Initial plc for five years until 
October 2013. He spent 25 years at Unilever 
PLC where he rose through a variety of 
finance roles in the UK and Europe and then 
general management in Taiwan and China. 
His last four years were as Executive 
Chairman of Unilever China. Following this, 
Alan returned to the UK as Chief Financial 
Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC 
taking a leading role in the divestment of 
the company.
DAME LOUISE MAKIN 
N R
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in July 2012. Dame Louise Makin is 
currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, 
a growing international specialist healthcare 
company, a position she has held since 
2004. Before joining BTG, Louise was at 
Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the 
roles of Vice President, Strategy & Business 
Development Europe, and from 2001, 
President of the Biopharmaceuticals division, 
where she was responsible for Europe, 
Africa and the Middle East. Prior to her time 
at Baxter, she was Director of Global 
Ceramics at English China Clay and held a 
variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 
1998. Louise is a Trustee of The Outward 
Bound Trust, an Honorary Fellow of  
St John’s College Cambridge, and a Non-
Executive Director of Woodford Patient 
Capital Trust plc. She was previously a Non-
Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
GILL RIDER CB 
R
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in July 2015. She currently holds 
non-executive directorships with Pennon 
Group Plc, where she chairs the 
Sustainability Committee and Charles Taylor 
Plc where she chairs their Remuneration 
Committee. She is the Senior Independent 
Director at both. Gill is also the Chair  
of Council (Board) of the University  
of Southampton and was the President  
of the Chartered Institute of Personnel  
& Development for the last five years. 
Formerly Gill was head of the Civil Service 
Capability Group in the Cabinet Office 
reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and prior 
to that held a number of senior positions 
with Accenture culminating in the post of 
Chief Leadership Officer for the global firm. 
She was previously a Non-Executive Director 
of De La Rue plc.
MICHAEL WAREING CMG 
N A
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in April 201 1. He is currently the 
Senior Independent Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman at Cobham plc and 
was previously a Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc. 
Michael was appointed as the Economic 
Development Advisor to the Government of 
Afghanistan in August 201 1. He has major 
international and board level knowledge 
gained during an extensive global career up 
to senior partner level at KPMG, where his 
last position was as International Chief 
Executive Officer, which he occupied for 
four years until 2009. He was previously the 
Prime Minister’s Special Envoy for 
Reconstruction in Southern Iraq. 
MARK WILLIAMS 
N R
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in September 2013. Until February 
2013, Dr. Mark Williams worked for over  
33 years at Royal Dutch Shell Plc (‘Shell’), 
including more than 21 years in Shell’s 
Exploration & Production and midstream 
businesses in the US, serving most recently 
as Downstream Director and a member of 
the Executive Committee of Shell, where he 
was one of the top three operating 
executives responsible for all strategic, 
capital and operational matters. Mark has 
held Board positions on non-profit and 
industry Boards and is currently Chairman  
of Hess Corporation in the US.
LENA WILSON CBE 
A
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in July 2012. She is currently Chief 
Executive Officer of Scottish Enterprise, 
Scotland’s national economic development 
agency, a member of Scotland’s Financial 
Services Advisory Board and Chair of 
Scotland’s Energy Jobs Taskforce. Prior  
to this, she was Chief Executive Officer  
of Scottish Development International 
(Scotland’s international trade and 
investment arm) and Chief Operating 
Officer, Scottish Enterprise. Lena was  
also a Senior Advisor to The World Bank  
in Washington DC on private sector 
development for developing countries.  
Lena is a member of the University of 
Strathclyde’s Business Advisory Board,  
and an Ambassador for the Prince and 
Princess of Wales Hospice and the 
Edinburgh Military Tattoo. She served  
on the Board of the Prince’s Scottish  
Youth Business Trust for ten years. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 58
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
Leadership
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible and accountable  
to shareholders for providing entrepreneurial leadership  
of the Company to ensure that the strategic aims and  
financial performance are delivered within a prudent  
framework of control systems. It spends time reviewing  
the following key activities:
• Strategy;
• Growth and development;
• Oversight of performance;
• Corporate governance; and
• Increasing long-term shareholder value.
The Board also reviews and approves the method and  
approach to risk management and internal control systems and 
the Group’s risk register. The overall powers of Directors are set 
out in the Company’s Articles of Association, which are 
available on the Company’s website and may be amended by 
special resolution of the shareholders. The Board may exercise 
all powers conferred on it by the Articles in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
The Board has the ultimate responsibility to the Company’s 
shareholders for the conduct of our business and also 
establishes the Company’s policies. There is a clear division  
of responsibility between the running of the Board and the 
executive responsibility for running the Company’s business. 
The Board Approval Matrix formally outlines the matters 
specifically requiring the consent of the full Board. The Board 
also delegates specific responsibilities, subject to certain 
financial limits, to management and this is governed by the 
Authorities Cascade which is regularly reviewed and updated  
to meet business needs. The Board decides and reviews all key 
policies and regulations for the Company, its strategy, operating 
plans, acquisitions, corporate governance, major investments 
and disposals, appointment and removal of Directors, risk 
management, financial reporting, audit, sustainability, ethics, 
the environment, people policies and pensions.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE
As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors. 
Biographical details of individual Directors are set out on  
pages 56 and 57. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
composition of the Board and its Committees and assessing 
whether the balance of skill, experience, independence and 
knowledge is appropriate to enable them to operate effectively. 
Following the retirement of Christopher Knight on 15 May 2015 
the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the 
Board and its Committees and recommended the appointment 
of Gill Rider as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015. More 
detail on the procedure for appointments can be found in the 
report of the Nomination Committee on page 83.
The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, 
independent and external insight to the Board’s proceedings 
and bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge 
from other business sectors and industries. The Board has 
reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, 
other than the Chairman, in accordance with the factors set  
out for consideration in the Code and determined that each 
continues to be independent.
Experience of the Board
Finance
Government Services
Industries
International
Listed Company
Risk Management
Individual board member with experience in sector
Where a Director is considered to have experience in multiple sectors, they have been 
recognised in all relevant areas.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified  
terms subject to election and re-election by shareholders at  
the AGM each year, if the Board, on the recommendation of 
the Nomination Committee deems it appropriate that they 
remain in office. Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive 
Director is subject to a particularly rigorous review to ensure the 
progressive refreshing of the Board to meet the evolving needs 
of the Company. The Letters of Appointment of the Non-
Executive Directors, as well as the Service Agreements of 
Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office and at the AGM. 59 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
In line with the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and 
these responsibilities have been formalised in writing. Their  
key responsibilities are set out below:
Role Name Responsibility
Chairman Sir David Reid • Leadership and governance  
of the Board to ensure  
its effectiveness.
• Ensure that the Directors 
receive accurate, timely  
and clear information.
• Ensure that there is  
effective communication  
with shareholders.
• Facilitate the effective 
contribution to the Board of 
the Non-Executive Directors. 
• Hold meetings with the Non-
Executive Directors without 
the Executives present.
Chief  
Executive 
Officer
Wolfhart  
Hauser (Retired  
15 May 2015)
André Lacroix 
(Appointed  
16 May 2015)
• Run the day-to-day operation 
of the business in line with  
the strategy and commercial 
objectives as agreed by  
the Board. 
• Responsible for promoting  
and conducting the affairs of 
the Company with the highest 
standards of ethics, integrity 
and corporate governance. 
• Lead the Executive 
Management Team. 
Senior 
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
Michael  
Wareing
• Provide a sounding board  
for the Chairman.
• Responsible for leading the 
Directors’ review of the 
Chairman’s performance.
• Be available to meet with 
shareholders should they  
have concerns which have  
not been resolved through 
normal channels. 
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the 
delivery of our Board and governance procedures, in particular 
in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and 
Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made 
available to the Board members on a timely basis. She also 
arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors 
to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements 
on request.
The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board by 
providing advice and services, including access to independent 
professional advice, at the Group’s expense, and ensures that 
an accurate record of all the meetings and Committee meetings 
is taken. If a member of the Board has any concerns about the 
Company or any of the decisions taken, this would be recorded 
in the minutes. No such concerns were raised during the year. 
The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent 
permitted by law, to each of the Directors and the Group 
Company Secretary. Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance  
is in place.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Under the Companies Act 2006 all Directors have a duty  
to avoid conflicts of interest and to disclose any outside 
appointments. The Board has a formal procedure to identify 
actual and potential conflicts of Directors’ interests. The 
Directors are advised of the process for dealing with conflicts  
of interest upon appointment and they are reminded of this 
obligation at subsequent Board meetings.
Any authorised decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or 
when a new Director is appointed, or if a new potential conflict 
arises. The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the 
Group Company Secretary and is reviewed annually by the 
Board. Directors abstain from voting when there is a vote to 
approve their own reported conflicts. In 2015, this process 
operated effectively. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 60
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
Effectiveness
BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 
During 2015, there were six scheduled Board meetings. There 
was also frequent ad-hoc contact between Directors to discuss 
the Group’s affairs and development of its business. A table of 
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings during the year is set 
out below. Details of the Directors’ Committee attendance are 
set out in their respective reports.
Regular agenda items included: 
• Updates on Group strategy and commercial objectives;
• Chief Executive’s Business Performance Reports; 
• 2015 annual business budget;
• Approval of full year results, Annual Report and Accounts,  
half year results, the AGM circular and dividends;
• Reports of the activities of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration  
and Nomination Committees;
• Reappointment of Directors at the 2015 AGM; 
• Conflicts of interest; 
• Updates on governance, risk, internal controls and compliance;
• Updates on developments, acquisitions and disposals; and
• Talent mapping and succession planning.
The Non-Executive Directors also receive monthly Business 
Performance Reports and information which enables them  
to review the performance of the Group and management 
against the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period 
performance. As well as the above, during the year the Board 
receive updates on debt financing and investor relations.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE
Board Memb ership and Meeting Attendance
Board Members Number of scheduled  
meetings held in 2015
Eligible 
to attend Attendance
Sir David Reid 
Chairman
6 6
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer (retired 15 May 2015)
3 3
André Lacroix
Chief Executive Officer (appointed 16 May 2015)
3 3
Edward Leigh
Chief Financial Officer 
6 6
Edward Astle
Non-Executive Director
6 6
Alan Brown
Non-Executive Director
6 6
Christopher Knight
Non-Executive Director (retired 15 May 2015)
3 3
Dame Louise Makin
Non-Executive Director
6 5
1
Gill Rider 
Non-Executive Director  
(appointed 1 July 2015)
3 3
Michael Wareing 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
6 6
Mark Williams 
Non-Executive Director
6 6
Lena Wilson
Non-Executive Director
6 6
When required the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis. 
1.  Dame Louise Makin was unable to attend one meeting due to an  
unavoidable commitment. 
Board visit to Chicago (USA)
In October 2015, the Board visited the Intertek operations  
in Chicago.
This provided an excellent opportunity for the Board to  
meet with the US management and to visit sites. The local 
management team presented on the drivers of the local 
operations and businesses and opportunities in the region. 
There was also time for informal interaction between the 
Board and senior management after the meetings.
DIRECTORS’ INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
There is a formal induction programme which is tailored  
to meet the needs of new Directors. This is managed by  
the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary. During  
the programme, new Directors receive background information 
on the Company and details of board procedures, directors’ 
responsibilities and various governance related issues.  
The induction also includes a series of meetings with other 
members of the Board, senior members of management  
and external advisers. 
During the year André Lacroix and Gill Rider completed  
their induction programmes including orientation from the 
relevant senior executives in relation to each of the business 
lines and other functions to ensure that they gain a deeper 
understanding and knowledge of the business. They received 
information about the business operations, internal audit 
activities, Group risks and management processes and 
procedures. Both conducted visits to various sites and 
laboratories to see the operations. 
All Directors are kept up-to-date with information about 
Intertek’s business and there is an ongoing programme of 
information dissemination. It is important that the Directors 
have an appreciation of our business both in the UK and 
overseas and during the year there were presentations from 
senior management to the Board, and meetings have been  
held on regional strategy to increase the understanding of 
operations, opportunities and risks. The Group Company 
Secretary, in conjunction with the Group’s advisers, monitors 
legal and governance developments and Directors are regularly 
updated on such matters. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the 
Group and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation 
review each year in order to assess how well the Board, the 
Committees, the Directors and the Chairman are performing.
2015 External Board evaluation
As planned, and recommended by the Code, a formal 
evaluation process was facilitated by a third party, Egon 
Zehnder, under the direction of the Chairman at the end of 
2015. Egon Zehnder has no other connection to the Company 
apart from in relation to the 2015 Board evaluation and search 
consultancy services.
A key context for this year’s review was our CEO succession 
where, after 10 years as CEO, Wolfhart Hauser retired at the 
AGM in May 2015 and was succeeded by André Lacroix. 
Accordingly the review focused mainly on the period since May 
when André assumed the CEO position, while also taking into 
account the outstanding learnings and opportunities from the 
previous leadership to ensure continuity.  61 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
It was noted that the CEO succession process was well led by 
the Chairman and the Board had found and appointed a highly 
capable and proven CEO who could take the Company through 
the next era of leadership. Further, the feedback on this early 
period of his leadership was extremely positive; this included  
a major strategic review and working it through with the 
executive management and the Board. 
There is a real sense of clarity and alignment on the 
comprehensive strategy review completed over the last seven 
months to December 2015. The Board is delighted to see 
André’s purposeful, thoughtful and energetic leadership 
producing an improvement in business performance and 
constructive board dynamics. There is a clear plan looking 
forward with timescales and milestones and priorities for 
implementation and review at the Board. 
The Board recognise the scale of the challenges and 
opportunities in realising the value they can deliver for 
shareholders and are optimistic that it can be done. This  
is based on the work done inter alia on the ‘differentiated  
value proposition’ and the ‘good to great accelerators’.
Alongside the Strategy, André has led a detailed review with  
his management team of the vision, core purpose, mission and 
values which is a key element of alignment and ensuring good 
execution right across the Group. 
The Board recognises the importance of People in our business 
and André has been quick to lead a strong focus on strategic 
capability in HR, people processes and talent development. 
The Board processes were reviewed in terms of the 
construction, composition, and dynamics of their Committees. 
The connections between the Board and the Committees are 
good with its Executives and Non-Executives Directors working 
well together. Governance overall is seen to be sound. An 
exception, and a surprise, was the voting down of last year’s 
Remuneration Report. The Board took this very seriously and 
has carried out a detailed review of the underlying reasons.  
In particular our new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
Gill Rider, together with our new external remuneration 
advisers have as required engaged with shareholders on our 
response to their concerns. The Board believe on the basis of 
this constructive engagement and changes we have made that 
our 2015 Remuneration Report will receive a positive vote from 
our Shareholders at this year’s AGM.
Lastly, and importantly, the Board believe the Company is 
entering a new era of opportunity. We have a good strategy  
for growth. We have a capable, motivated, and energised team 
and an excellent CEO to lead them to deliver shareholder value. 
In conclusion, the review has shown that the Board and its 
Committees continue to operate in an efficient and effective 
manner.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, conducted a performance review of  
the Chairman. They considered his leadership, performance  
and overall contribution to be of a high standard and he 
continues to have their full support. 
The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to  
discuss individual contributions and performance, together  
with training and development needs. The Board has confirmed 
that the contribution of each of the Directors continues to be 
effective and recommends that shareholders should be 
supportive of their election or re-election to the Board. 
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND BOARD COMMITTEES
The Group has a clear Governance Framework, as set out in  
the diagram below, which explains how authority is delegated 
from the Board.
The principal Board Committees comprise the Audit  
& Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and  
the Remuneration Committee.
Each of the Board’s Committees has received delegated 
authority to carry out the business defined in its respective 
Terms of Reference. The Board is satisfied that the Terms of 
Reference for each of these Committees reflect current best 
practice and satisfy the terms of the Code. The Terms of 
Reference for these principal Committees are available on  
our website at www.intertek.com.
At each Board Meeting, the Chair of each Committee provides 
the Board with a brief summary of the work carried out by  
their Committee, if any, between Board meetings and makes 
recommendations to the Board for approval. Further 
information on the responsibilities and activities of each of the 
Committees can be found on pages 63 to 77 (Remuneration 
Committee), pages 78 to 82 (Audit & Risk Committee) and  
on pages 83 and 84 (Nomination Committee).
The Board also delegates certain responsibilities  
to management and this is governed by the Authorities  
Cascade which is regularly reviewed and updated  
to meet business needs.
Intertek Group plc Shareholders
Intertek Board of Directors
Audit & Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Investment
Committee
Executive
Management
Team
Risk Control
and Assurance
Committee
Divisional & Country
Management
Support Functions
Risks Controls
 Board Committees
 Operational Committees  DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 62
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES
Executive Management Team
The Executive Management Team, which comprises the 
Executive Directors, the senior Group and Executive Vice-
Presidents and other senior management, meet regularly  
to discuss and decide business and operational issues.  
The biographical details of the members of the Committee  
can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Investment Committee
The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing 
significant contracts, leases and acquisitions, undertaking  
post investment appraisal reviews, and overseeing capital 
expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities 
Cascade and forms part of the Intertek Corporate  
Governance Framework. The membership of the Investment 
Committee consists of the Chief Executive Officer and  
the Chief Financial Officer. The Committee is serviced  
by the Deputy Company Secretary. 
Risk Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’) 
There are two key elements to the work of the RCA:
1.  To oversee the development and improvement of the 
Group’s risk management, internal controls and assurance 
framework and the related procedures and systems; and
2.  To oversee the operation and implementation of the 
procedures and systems identified.
The RCA is comprised of the Chief Financial Officer, Group 
Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Executive  
Vice-President Human Resources, Group Financial Controller, 
Group General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
More information on the RCA is available in the report of the 
Audit & Risk Committee on page 81.
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
Shareholder engagement
The views and opinions of our shareholders are important to 
the Company and we maintain an ongoing engagement 
programme for major shareholders. 
An independent Investor Study for Intertek was undertaken 
during April and May 2015. This involved a quantitative 
assessment of the business based on past performance and 
forecasts of the future, together with a qualitative assessment 
based on interviews with 19 leading institutional investors in 
the UK and North America controlling an identified 45% of  
the issued share capital of the Company between them.  
The findings of the study were then presented to the Board  
in July 2015.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director are available to meet with shareholders. The other 
Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet with 
institutional shareholders to discuss any matters relating to  
the Company. The Company’s website has an investors section 
which includes a wealth of information that may be of interest 
to our shareholders and investors. 
Our largest shareholders are invited annually to meet with the 
Chairman to share their views. In 2015 we invited shareholders 
holding more than 40% of the share register collectively to 
these meetings. The Company has also consulted extensively 
with shareholders in relation to remuneration following the 
2015 AGM. There was engagement and meetings held 
between the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and 
shareholders representing over 50% of the share register.
2015 Investor Relations Calendar
February Chairman shareholder meetings
March Annual Results Roadshows
April Investor site visit 
Testing, Inspection & Assurance Conference
May Annual General Meeting 
AGM Trading Update 
New CEO introductory shareholder meetings
June European Business Services Conference 
Independent shareholder study with UK and 
US investors
August Interim Results Roadshows
September Support & Business Services Conference 
European Large Cap Conference 
Private Wealth Management Roadshow 
Shareholder consultation on remuneration
November T r a d i n g S t a t e m e n t
December US Business Services Conference
Annual General Meeting 
This year the AGM will be held on 25 May 2016 at 9.00am  
in the Park Room at the Westbury Hotel, Conduit Street, 
London, W1S 2FY. The AGM provides the opportunity for all 
shareholders to develop their understanding of the Company’s 
strategy and operations, to ask questions of the full Board on 
the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report 
and Accounts. All Board members attend the AGM and, in 
particular, the Chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions. 
The Company proposes a resolution on each separate issue  
and does not combine resolutions inappropriately. The  
Notice of the AGM (‘Notice’) is sent to shareholders by 
e-communications or by post. 
A copy of the Notice is available on the website at  
www.intertek.com. 63 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Bonuses will continue to be subject to a quality of earnings  
review at the end of the year to ensure that pay-outs are 
appropriate based on the underlying performance of the  
Group and to ensure that any awards are commensurate with  
the Group’s culture and values. 
The Committee has also updated the policy to reflect the minor 
changes in benefits included in the terms and conditions of the 
new CEO following his appointment in 2015. Benefits provided will 
remain within the maximum opportunity of 12% of base salary. 
As outlined in the 2014 Remuneration report, the Committee 
deferred the setting of performance targets and the award of the 
2015 LTIP; the award was made in September 2015, following the 
appointment of André Lacroix as CEO and consultation with 
shareholders. Details of the final targets are provided on page 72.
Given the increasing focus from some investors on the time 
horizons for long-term incentive plans, the Committee had 
substantial debate on the matter of extending the holding period 
for our Long Term Incentive Plan beyond the current six month 
post-vesting. In our view, given the nature of our customer facing 
business, the new management team now in place, the new 
business growth strategy and direction and also the recent history 
of LTIP pay-outs at Intertek – we felt it prudent to keep the holding 
period as it is for now. The Committee will review this next year 
and has provided itself with the flexibility within the policy report 
to increase the time horizons for LTIP awards.
With respect to 2015, the Company delivered solid financial 
performance, illustrated by 5.9% growth in adjusted operating 
profit over 2014, 6.5% growth in adjusted diluted EPS and a return 
on capital employed of 16.9%, with strong cash conversion. In 
light of the financial performance delivered during the year by the 
management team, the Committee approved bonus pay-outs 
relating to financial performance of 95.7% of the maximum. The 
bonus payments of André Lacroix and Wolfhart Hauser have been 
pro-rated for time in service.
As the performance targets attached to the 2013 LTIP, which was 
measured based on EPS and relative TSR performance over the 
three-year period to 31 December 2015, were not met, this award 
will lapse in full in 2016.
An additional change being made by the Committee is  
the introduction of a new all employee share plan to increase 
alignment to shareholders across the Group. The new plan,  
the Intertek Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(comprising the UK tax-advantaged scheme and the International 
Scheme – the ‘SRS’), will be operated in all of the jurisdictions 
within which the Group operates (subject to feasibility and minor 
changes for tax and legal purposes as required). The SRS will be 
subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
I hope you will find that you are able to support the level of 
remuneration we have determined for 2015 and our remuneration 
policy as submitted for your approval at this year’s AGM. Once 
again I would like to thank you for your engagement and guidance 
during our consultation rounds this year.
Yours sincerely,
GILL RIDER
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Gill Rider – Chair of the Remuneration Committee
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
2015 has been a year of change, in which we have experienced 
the retirement of Wolfhart Hauser after 10 years as CEO and the 
appointment of André Lacroix as his successor, whilst responding 
positively to the continued economic challenge in key markets.
This is my first report to you and I want to start by emphasising 
that the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) takes the 
views of the Group’s shareholders very seriously. We are sorry  
that our Report on Remuneration last year did not receive our 
shareholders’ support. I would like to extend our thanks to all  
of our shareholders who have taken the time over the recent 
months to provide us with their views on executive remuneration 
matters. Taking into account the feedback that we received,  
the Committee has worked to ensure that the approach  
to executive remuneration at Intertek is in the best interests  
of both the Group and its shareholders.
The main concern for many of our shareholders last year was the 
approach taken to the joining arrangements for the new CEO, 
André Lacroix, and in particular the guaranteed bonus. Following 
the feedback and opposition from shareholders to this element of 
guarantee, and as we communicated at the time of the result of 
the AGM, the Board, in consultation with André Lacroix, 
determined that his 2015 Bonus is subject to the usual 
performance criteria and a compensatory award in this regard  
will no longer be made. In future, the Committee will ensure that 
we take into account the views of shareholders when considering 
and agreeing the remuneration arrangements for new recruits.
Following the AGM, the Committee undertook a ‘deep dive’ 
review of all of the components of the remuneration policy  
to ensure that they continue to support the Group’s strategy  
and the objective of delivering sustainable long-term returns  
to shareholders.
Overall, the Committee determined that the core remuneration 
policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, 
remained appropriate and this is reflected in the largely unchanged 
policy presented on the following pages for approval at our  
2016 AGM. 
The key area that the Committee considered appropriate to 
change was the approach to the annual incentive. As you will see 
in this year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, we have simplified 
our measures for 2016 and aligned them more closely to the 
delivery of the growth strategy of the business and shareholder 
feedback. In line with the growth strategy of the new CEO, the 
annual incentive will be based solely on financial performance  
as follows, with effect from 1 January 2016:
• 80% – a matrix based on revenue growth and operating  
profit growth; and
• 20% – based on return on invested capital performance.
The elements specifically required to be audited within  
the shaded sections of pages 70 to 74 have been audited  
by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the requirements  
of the Regulations. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 64
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ Remuneration  
Policy Report
The section below sets out the Remuneration policy for 
executive and non-executive Directors, which is subject to a 
binding vote of shareholders and will, if applied, be effective 
from the date of the 2016 AGM.
POLICY OVERVIEW
We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration policy 
is appropriate for the nature, size and complexity of the Group, 
encourages our employees in the development of their careers 
and is directed to deliver continued profitable growth.
Our remuneration strategy is to:
• align and recognise the individual’s contribution to help us 
succeed in achieving our growth strategy and long-term 
business goals;
• attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available people 
by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive in the 
relevant market and in line with the ability of the business to 
pay;
• reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities 
and performance; and
• motivate high performers to increase shareholder value and 
share in the Group’s success.
Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy 
for the Group and considers the individual remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and certain senior executives. 
The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and 
performance-related remuneration against the key objectives 
and targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately 
rewarded. This also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection  
of the underlying performance of the Group.
As a global service business, our success is critically dependent 
on the performance and retention of our key people around 
the world. Employment costs represent the major element  
of Group operating costs. As a global Group our pay 
arrangements take into account both local and international 
markets and we operate a global remuneration policy 
framework to achieve our reward strategy.
Our peer groups for the majority of our employees consist  
of international industrial or business service organisations  
and similar-sized businesses. For our more senior executives  
we base our remuneration comparisons on a blend of factors, 
including sector, job complexity, location, responsibilities  
and performance, whilst recognising the Company is listed  
in the UK.
We believe that a significant proportion of remuneration for 
senior executives should be related to performance, with part 
of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares and 
subject to continued employment and longer-term 
performance. We also believe that share-based remuneration 
should form a significant element of senior executives’ 
compensation, so that there is a strong link to the sustained 
future success of the Group. 
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS
The following table sets out the key aspects of the remuneration policy for Directors:
ELEMENT  
OF PAY
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM  
OPPORTUNITY
PERFORMANCE 
MEASURES
BASE 
SALARY
To attract and retain 
high performing 
Executive Directors to 
lead the Group.
The Committee reviews salaries 
annually, taking account of the scale  
of responsibilities, the individual’s 
experience and performance.
Whilst the Committee takes 
benchmarking information into 
account, its decisions are based 
primarily on the performance of  
the individual concerned against the 
above factors to ensure that there  
is no unjustified upward ratchet in 
base salary.
There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. 
The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the employee 
population but on occasions may need 
to recognise other factors including, 
but are not limited to, development in 
role, change in responsibility and/or 
variance to market levels of 
remuneration.
Individual performance is 
taken into account when 
salary levels are reviewed.
BENEFITS
To provide competitive 
benefits to ensure the 
well-being of 
employees.
Benefits include, but are not limited to, 
annual medicals, life assurance cover 
of up to six times base salary, 
allowances in lieu of a company car  
or other benefits, private medical 
insurance (for the individual and his 
dependants) and other benefits 
typically provided to senior executives.
Executive Directors can participate in 
the all-employee share plans operated 
by the Company on the same basis as 
all other employees.
The total value of these benefits 
(excluding the all-employee plans)  
will not exceed 12% of salary.
The maximum opportunity under  
any all-employee share plan is in  
line with all other employees and  
is as determined by the prevailing 
HMRC rules. 
n/a
PENSION
To provide competitive 
retirement benefits.
Executive Directors can elect to join  
the Company’s defined contribution 
pension scheme, receive pension 
contributions into their personal 
pension plan or receive a cash sum  
in lieu of pension contributions.
Up to 30% of salary. n/a 65 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ELEMENT  
OF PAY
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM  
OPPORTUNITY
PERFORMANCE 
MEASURES
ANNUAL 
INCENTIVE 
PLAN (‘AIP’)
To drive the short-term 
strategy and recognise 
annual performance 
against targets which 
are based on business 
objectives. 
Awards are based on Group annual 
financial performance targets, with 
performance targets set annually  
by the Committee.
Normally, 50% of any bonus is paid  
in cash and 50% deferred into shares 
which will vest after a period of three 
years subject to continued 
employment.
Accrued dividends on deferred shares 
during the deferral period are paid in 
in cash or shares at the end of the 
deferral period. 
Not pensionable.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
The maximum opportunity is 200% of 
salary for all Executive Directors.
The Committee has the ability to 
reduce bonus payments if it believes 
that short-term performance has been 
achieved at the expense of the Group’s 
long-term future success. 
The Committee can adjust upwards the 
bonus outturn (up to the maximum set 
out above) to recognise very 
exceptional circumstances or to 
recognise that circumstances have 
occurred which were beyond the direct 
responsibility of the executive and the 
executive has managed and mitigated 
the impact of any loss.
The annual bonus will be 
measured against a range of 
key Group financial measures. 
The current intention is that 
none of the bonus will be 
subject to non-financial 
measures or personal 
performance measures. The 
Committee however retains 
the discretion to introduce 
such measures in the future, 
up to a maximum of 20% of 
the bonus. Where the 
Committee were to introduce 
such measures, it would 
normally consult with the 
Company’s largest 
institutional shareholders.
The stretch targets, when 
met, reward exceptional 
achievement and contribution. 
There is no bonus pay-out if 
threshold targets are not met.
LONG-TERM 
INCENTIVE 
PLAN 
(‘LTIP’)
To retain and reward 
Executive Directors for 
the delivery of long-term 
performance.
To support the 
continuity of the 
leadership of the 
business.
To provide long-term 
alignment of Executives’ 
interests with 
shareholders by linking 
rewards to Intertek’s 
performance.
Annual grant of conditional shares 
which vest after three years, subject to 
Company performance and continued 
employment. 
Awards may be made in other forms 
(e.g. nil-cost options) if considered 
appropriate.
The shares will also be subject to a 
six-month holding period after vesting. 
The Committee has the discretion to 
increase the length of the holding 
period in future years.
Performance targets are set annually 
for each three-year performance cycle 
by the Committee.
Accrued dividends during the vesting 
period to be paid in cash or shares at 
vesting, to the extent that shares vest.
The Committee may adjust and  
amend awards in accordance with  
the LTIP rules.
Up to 250% of salary in respect of any 
financial year.
LTIP awards are subject to 
performance conditions based 
on Earning Per Share (‘EPS’) 
growth and relative Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’). 
At least a quarter of each 
award will be based on each 
of these measures, with the 
split determined each year by 
the Committee.
25% of an award will vest  
for achieving threshold 
performance, increasing 
pro-rata to full vesting for  
the achievement of stretch 
performance targets.
Awards under the TSR 
element of the LTIP are also 
subject to the satisfaction  
of a financial underpin.
SHARE 
OWNERSHIP 
GUIDELINES
To increase alignment 
between executives  
and shareholders.
Executive Directors are required to 
retain any vested shares (net of tax) 
under the Group’s share plans until the 
guideline is met.
The guideline should be met within 
five years of the guideline being set.
CEO: 200% of salary.
CFO: 200% of salary.
n/a
NON-
EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS’ 
FEES
To attract and retain 
high calibre Non-
Executive Directors 
through the provision of 
market competitive fees.
A proportion of the fees (at least 50%) 
are paid in cash, with the remainder 
used to purchase shares.
Fees are determined based on the 
responsibility and time committed to 
the Group’s affairs and appropriate 
market comparisons.
With the exception of benefits-in-kind 
arising from the performance of 
duties, no other benefits are provided, 
other than to the Chairman, who 
receives a car allowance of £25,000 
per annum.
As for the Executive Directors, there  
is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided by 
the general increase for the employee 
population but on occasions may need 
to recognise other factors including, 
but not limited to, change in 
responsibility and/or variance  
to market levels of remuneration.
n/a
CHANGES TO THE POLICY TABLE
All changes made to our policy are detailed in the Chair’s statement. Minor wording changes have also been made to ensure  
that the policy can be implemented as intended by the Remuneration Committee. 
SELECTION OF PERFORMANCE METRICS
The annual bonus is based on performance against a mix of financial measures. The mix of financial measures is aligned to the 
Group’s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that they remain 
appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead. The targets are set for each KPI to encourage continuous 
improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch performance.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 66
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
The LTIP is based on EPS growth and TSR performance. EPS is a measure of the Group’s overall financial success and TSR provides 
an external assessment of the Company’s performance against the market. It also aligns the rewards received by executives with 
the returns received by shareholders. A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for each measure. The Committee 
reviews the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant. The 
Committee reserves the discretion to set different targets for future awards, without consulting with shareholders. The targets  
for awards granted under this remuneration policy are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
When setting the targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee takes into account a range of factors, 
including the business plan, prior year performance, market conditions and consensus forecasts.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The charts below illustrate how the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages vary at different levels of performance under  
the ongoing policy, which will apply in 2016 for both the Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’) and Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’): 
Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance 
100% 37% 23%
100%
38% 24%
28%
34%
43%
35%
31%
38%
38%
31%
£1,216
£3,270
£5,324
£513
£1,329
£2,145
Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum
LTIP award
Bonus
Base salary, beneﬁts and pension  
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
£’000
A Lacroix, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer E Leigh, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Points relating to the above table: 
1. Salary levels are based on those applying on 1 April 2016.
2. The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the year ended 31 December 2015.
3. The value of pension receivable by the CEO and CFO in 2016 is taken to be 30% of salary and 20% of salary respectively.
4. The on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
5. The on-target level of the LTIP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant.
6. Share price movement and dividend accrual have not been incorporated into the values shown above.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTIONS
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director – base salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive 
awards – would be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time of 
appointment. The Committee may set the base salary at a value to reflect the calibre, experience and earnings potential of a 
candidate, subject to the Committee’s judgement that the level of remuneration is in the Company’s best interest. The maximum 
level of variable pay (annual bonus and long-term incentive awards) which may be awarded to a new executive director at or 
shortly following recruitment shall be limited to 450% of salary. These limits exclude buy-out awards and are in line with the 
‘Remuneration Policy for Directors’ set out previously. 
The Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements to take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving 
the former employer when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company (and therefore shareholders) (‘buy-outs’). 
Any such awards would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration it is 
intended to replace. Where appropriate the Committee retains the flexibility to utilise Listing Rule 9.4.2 for the purpose of making 
an award to ‘buy out’ remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses and 
continuing allowances as appropriate. Additionally, in the case of any Executive Director being recruited from overseas, or being 
recruited by the Company to relocate overseas to perform their duties, the Committee may offer expatriate benefits on an 
ongoing basis subject to their aggregate value to the individual not exceeding 50% of salary per annum.
  67 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable  
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant 
to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other 
ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue.
If a new Chairman or non-executive Director is appointed, 
remuneration arrangements will be in line with those detailed 
in the remuneration policy for non-executive directors set out  
in the Remuneration Policy for Directors above.
SERVICE CONTRACTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The service agreements of the Executive Directors are not fixed-
term and are terminable by either the Company or the Director 
on 12 months’ notice and make provision, at the Board’s 
discretion, for early termination by way of payment of salary 
and pension contributions in lieu of 12 months’ notice. In 
calculating the amount payable to a Director on termination of 
employment, the Board would take into account the 
commercial interests of the Company and apply usual common 
law and contractual principles. Any payments in lieu of notice 
may be paid in a lump sum or may be paid in instalments and 
reduce if the director finds alternative employment. The service 
contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. The Committee reviews the contractual terms 
for new Executive Directors to ensure these reflect best 
practice. In summary, the contractual provisions are:
Provision Detailed Terms
Notice period 12 months
Common law and contractual 
principles
Common law and contractual 
principles apply
Remuneration entitlements A bonus may be payable (pro-rata 
where relevant) and outstanding 
share awards may vest (see below)
Change of control No Executive Director’s contract 
contains provisions or additional 
payments in respect of change of 
control. The treatment of bonus 
awards and outstanding share 
awards will be treated in line with 
the relevant plan rules. 
The annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of 
the financial year served. Any share-based entitlements granted 
to an Executive Director under the Company’s share plans will 
be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
The default treatment under the 2011 LTIP is that any 
outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death,  
ill-health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be 
applied. For good leavers, awards will normally vest on the 
original vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions at that time and reduced pro-rata to 
reflect the proportion of the performance period actually 
served. However, the Committee has discretion to determine 
that awards vest at an earlier date and/or to disapply time pro-
rating, although it is envisaged that this would only be applied 
in exceptional circumstances. Any such incidents, where 
discretion is applied by the Committee in relation to  
executive Directors, will be disclosed in the following  
Annual Report on Remuneration.
The default treatment for deferred bonus awards is that  
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances (as described 
under the 2011 LTIP above), awards will vest in full on the 
original vesting date, unless (as permitted under the plan  
rules) the Committee determines that awards should vest  
at an earlier date.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as  
a good leaver or not, the Committee will take into account  
the reasons for their departure.
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT FOR NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
The Letter of Appointment for each Non-Executive Director 
states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years 
and all appointments are terminable by one month’s notice on 
either side. At the end of the initial period and after rigorous 
review the appointment may be renewed for a further period, 
usually three years, if the Company and the Director agree and 
subject to annual re-election at the AGM. Each letter of 
appointment states that if the Company were to terminate the 
appointment, the Director would not be entitled to any 
compensation for loss of office. 
The table below sets out the terms for all current members of 
the Board.
Date of 
Appointment
Notice Period/
unexpired term as 
at 31 December 2015
Sir David Reid 1 December 2011
Reappointed: 
1 December 2014
One month/
23 months 
Edward Astle
*
1 September 2009
Reappointed:
1 September 2012
Reappointed: 
1 September 2015
One month/
32 months
Alan Brown 15 April 2011
Reappointed: 
15 April 2014
One month/
15 months 
Dame Louise Makin 1 July 2012
Reappointed: 
1 July 2015
One month/
30 months 
Gill Rider 1 July 2015 One month/
30 months
Michael Wareing 15 April 2011
Reappointed: 
15 April 2014
One month/
15 months 
Mark Williams 1 September 2013 One month/
8 months 
Lena Wilson 1 July 2012
Reappointed:
1 July 2015
One month/
30 months
* Edward Astle will be stepping down from the Board at the AGM on 25 May 2016. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 68
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 
ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
When setting the remuneration policy for executive directors, 
the Remuneration Committee takes into account the pay and 
employment conditions elsewhere within the Group. When 
considering the remuneration arrangements for the executive 
directors for the year ahead, the Committee is informed  
of salary increases across the wider group. The Committee  
also approves the overall reward strategy in operation  
across the Group.
The remuneration strategy set out at the beginning of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report reflects the strategy  
in place across all employees across the Group. Although this 
remuneration strategy applies across the Group, given the size 
of the group and the geographical spread of its operations,  
the way in which the remuneration policy is implemented varies 
across the Group. For example bonus deferral applies at  
the more senior levels within the Group and participation  
in the LTIP is at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion  
and is typically limited to senior executives employed within  
the Group.
Given the geographical spread of the Group’s operations,  
the Remuneration Committee does not consider it appropriate 
to consult employees on the remuneration policy in operation 
for Executive Directors.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the Group’s 
shareholders very seriously, and as highlighted in both the 
Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement and the 
Chairman’s statement, following the vote on the Annual 
Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM, has taken considerable 
time to engage with and listen to shareholders over the course 
of 2015 and early 2016 on their views and the remuneration 
policy going forward. The policy that is being put to 
shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM reflects the policy 
discussed with shareholders during the consultation process.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS
For avoidance of doubt, through this approved Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Report, authority is given to the Company 
to honour any commitments entered into with current or 
former Directors (such as the vesting of past share awards)  
that were agreed:
(i) before the policy set out above, or any previous policy,  
came into effect;
(ii) at a time when a previous policy approved by shareholders 
was in place provided that the payment is in line with the terms 
of that policy; and
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of 
the Company and the payment was not in consideration for the 
individual becoming a director of the Company.
Annual Report on Remuneration
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE
Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Committee Members Number of meetings held in 2015
Eligible to attend Attendance
Christopher Knight
1
 
(Committee Chair)
4 4
Gill Rider
2
 
(Committee Chair)
3 3
Alan Brown
3
5 4
Dame Louise Makin 8 8
Mark Williams
4
4 4
1. Christopher Knight retired from the Committee on 15 May 2015.
2. Gill Rider was appointed to the Committee as Chair on 1 July 2015.
3.  Alan Brown stepped down from the Committee on 1 July 2015, having missed one 
meeting called at very short notice due to outside commitments.
4.  Mark Williams was appointed to the Committee on 15 May 2015 and acted as Chair 
for the period 15 May to 30 June 2015.
The Chairman, CEO, and the Executive Vice President, Human 
Resources may, by invitation, attend the Committee meetings, 
except when their own remuneration is discussed. No Director 
is involved in determining his or her own remuneration. None 
of the Committee members has had any personal financial 
interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided. The 
Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
THE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
On behalf of the Board, the Committee:
• determines the Company’s policy on the remuneration  
of the Chairman, the CEO, the Executive Directors and  
senior executives;
• determines the remuneration packages of the above, including 
any compensation on termination of office;
• reviews the remuneration arrangements for the wider 
employee population and considers issues relating  
to remuneration that may have a significant impact  
on the Group;
• provides advice to, and consults with, the CEO on major policy 
issues affecting the remuneration of other executives; and 
• keeps remuneration policy under review in the light of 
regulatory and best practice developments and shareholder 
expectations. Due regard is given to the interests of 
shareholders and the requirements of the Listing Rules  
and associated guidance. 
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on  
our website at www.intertek.com. 
THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee met eight times and considered: 
• the 2015 Reward Strategy; 
• the salary for senior management and the determination  
of the bonus payments for 2015;
• the TSR and EPS performance results for the 2012 – 2015 
share plan award cycles; 
• the 2015 bonus targets and performance measures;
• share plan awards for 2015 – 2018 and TSR and EPS 
performance criteria;
• feedback from shareholders and corporate governance 
organisations in respect of the vote on the Remuneration 
report at the 2015 AGM, the Remuneration Policy and the  69 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
amendment of the LTIP performance conditions for the 2015 
share award to ensure that the targets remain realistic and 
incentivising;
• the remuneration proposals for the new CEO, CFO and other 
new senior employees;
• the departure terms for senior executives;
• the remuneration advisers; 
• motivation & retention;
• the review of the Directors’ Remuneration report to ensure 
compliance with Remuneration Reporting Regulations; and
• the Remuneration Policy for Directors.
ADVISERS 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices drive and 
support achievement of strategies and are market competitive, 
the Committee obtains advice from various independent sources. 
During 2015, the Committee received advice on remuneration 
matters from New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), a trading name of Aon 
plc, which provided no other services to the Committee during 
the year under review. 
Following the AGM, the Committee also received advice from 
Deloitte LLP. Deloitte provided no other services to the 
Committee during the year under review.
NBS and Deloitte are members of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation 
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. 
NBS and Deloitte were both selected for their particular expertise 
both at a local and global level due to the worldwide operations 
of the Group. 
The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive 
remuneration over the financial year under review were £57,280. 
The fees paid to Deloitte in the year were £26,700.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Company recognises that, during their employment with 
the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become 
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such 
duties can broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive 
Directors may, with the written consent of the Company, 
accept such appointments outside the Company, and the  
policy is that any fees may be retained by the Director. 
André Lacroix
André is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for which his earnings from 16 May 
2015 to 31 December 2015 were £76,118 which he retained. 
He is also Chairman of Good Restaurants AG for which he 
received no earnings for the period 16 May 2015 to 31 
December 2015. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Wolfhart Hauser is a Non-Executive Director of RELX Group 
(previously Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV), and his 
earnings for this appointment from 1 January to 15 May 2015, 
which he retained, were £33,750 with taxable benefits of 
£780. He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of 
Associated British Foods plc with effect from 14 January 2015 
and his earnings for the period from appointment to the  
15 May 2015 were £24,556 which he retained. 
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING
At the 2015 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders 
to approve the Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2014. This resolution received the following  
votes from shareholders: 
Remuneration report
In favour 57,723,515 48.32%
Against 61,739,614 51.68%
Total 119,463,129 74.03%
Withheld 1,092,723
On 15 May 2015 we announced the AGM voting figures  
and advised that, noting the outcome of the vote on the 
Remuneration report, the Committee had engaged with  
major shareholders and had taken into account their feedback. 
As a result, the Board, in consultation with André Lacroix, 
determined that his 2015 Bonus would be subject to the usual 
performance criteria. Further details on actions taken by the 
Committee are provided in the Remuneration Committee 
Chair’s statement.
RETIREMENT AND APPOINTMENT OF CEO
Retirement of CEO: Wolfhart Hauser retired from the position 
of CEO on 15 May 2015; he continued as an employee until 
31 December 2015, with no change to his terms and 
conditions.
Appointment of new CEO: André Lacroix joined the 
Company as CEO on 16 May 2015. His remuneration 
arrangements on appointment were within the defined 
structure and limits of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. He received an 
annual salary of £895,000, a pension allowance of 30% of 
salary, and standard benefits commensurate with his position. 
He is eligible to be considered for a discretionary bonus of up to 
200% of salary with half of any bonus paid being deferred into 
shares which will vest three years later. Following engagement 
with shareholders, it was agreed his bonus in 2015 was subject 
to the normal structure and limits, with the payment adjusted 
pro-rata for the proportion of the year from his date of 
appointment. He was also eligible to participate in the Intertek 
LTIP and an award in shares equal to 250% of his salary was 
made in September 2015.
To compensate André Lacroix for the loss of payments that 
would have been made to him by Inchcape plc under its annual 
and long-term incentive plans if he had not resigned, share 
awards have been made to him of 91,575 shares to vest in  
May 2016 and 91,574 shares to vest in May 2017 both with  
no performance conditions other than continued service. In 
determining the level of compensatory awards, the Company 
has taken account of the value of the awards forfeited as well 
as the performance hurdles attached to them. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 70
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION EARNED IN 2015
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2015 and the prior year for comparison. 
Base salary
or fees
£’000
Benefits
1
£’000
BIK arising
from
performance
of duties
8
£’000
Pension
£’000
Annual
 bonus
4
£’000
Long-term
incentives
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
André Lacroix
9
2015 557 20 – 167 1,080 – – 1,824
Wolfhart Hauser 2015 274 23 – 84
2
495 – – 876
2014 725 72 – 181
2
644 389
6
– 2,011
Edward Leigh
3
2015 390 24 – 78
7
772 –
5
– 1,264
2014 90 5 – 18
7
69 –
6
– 182
Non-Executive 
Directors
Edward Astle 2015 71 – 1 – – – – 72
2014 71 – 1 – – – – 72
Alan Brown 2015 67 – – – – – – 67
2014 66 – – – – – – 66
Christopher Knight 2015 38 – – – – – – 38
2014 86 – – – – – – 86
Dame Louise Makin 2015 66 – 1 – – – – 67
2014 66 – – – – – – 66
Gill Rider 2015 32 – – – – – – 32
Sir David Reid 2015 320 25 3 – – – – 348
2014 320 25 6 – – – – 351
Michael Wareing 2015 93 – 7 – – – – 100
2014 93 – 7 – – – – 100
Mark Williams 2015 65 – 4 – – – – 69
2014 58 – 8 – – – – 66
Lena Wilson 2015 68 – 6 – – – – 74
2014 68 – 6 – – – – 74
1.  Benefits include allowances in lieu of company car, annual medicals, life assurance and private medical insurance, and the use of a car and driver for the CEO. With respect to the  
Non-Executive Directors, other than Sir David Reid, who receives a car allowance of £25,000 per annum, no other benefits are provided.
2. Pension contributions for Wolfhart Hauser were made into his personal scheme.
3. Information for Edward Leigh for 2014 is for remuneration from 1 October 2014 on his appointment as CFO.
4. This relates to the payment of the annual bonus and Deferred Bonus Share Award for the financial year end. Further details of this payment are set out on the following pages.
5.  This relates to the vesting of the 2013 LTIP award. The performance period for this award ended on 31 December 2015. 
6. This figure has been updated to show the actual value of the vested 2012 LTIP award based on the share price of £25.7967 as the 2014 Report included figures based on £24.75. 
7. The pension contributions for Edward Leigh include the sum of £39,600 (2014: £9,900) which was paid into the Intertek Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
8.  Following a review by HMRC, certain expenses relating to the performance of a director’s duties (not included in the Benefits in Kind column above) in carrying out the activities such as travel 
to and from Company meetings and related accommodation have now been classified as taxable. In such cases, the Company will ensure that the director is not out of pocket by settling the 
related tax via the PSA. In line with current regulations, these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the benefits arising from performance of duties column. The figures 
shown are the cost of the taxable benefit. 
9. Information for Andre Lacroix for 2015 is for remuneration from 16 May 2015, on his appointment as CEO.
ANNUAL BONUS
The annual bonus for the 2015 financial year was based on performance against adjusted diluted EPS growth, adjusted operating 
profit growth, cash conversion, return on invested capital and general contribution. Performance against the financial targets is set 
out below:
Financial measures
% 
Weighting
2013
Actual
2014
Actual
2015
Target
2
2015
Actual
%
Achieved
3
% 
Weighted
achievement
Adjusted diluted EPS growth
1
50% 128.8p 132.1p 134.8p 139.2p 100% 50%
Adjusted operating profit growth
1
25% £320.6m £324.4m £333.6m £340.1m 82.9% 20.7%
Operating cash flow % of adjusted operating profit 15% 72.8% 91.0% 93.0% 103.7% 100% 15%
Return on invested capital 10% 18.4% 16.3% 16.0% 16.9% 100% 10%
Total 100% 95.7%
1.  Calculated using constant 2014 exchange rates. Adjusted results exclude the impact of Separately Disclosed Items, which includes the impairment of Industry Services  
(see note 3 to the financial statements).
2. Target is equivalent to 50% pay-out.
3. Percentage achieved against stretch target.  71 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
General Contribution is a qualitative award taking into account the overall personal contribution of the Executive Director  
to developing the strategy for the Group, ensuring sustainability, team building and leadership. 
The Remuneration Committee discussed and assessed the general contribution of André Lacroix and Edward Leigh to be  
100% for the year, and 70% for Wolfhart Hauser.
The combined bonus outturn for both the financial and General Contribution elements is as follows:
Financial targets General contribution Total
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
André Lacroix 160.0% 153.2% 40.0% 40.0% 200.0% 193.2%
Wolfhart Hauser 160.0% 153.2% 40.0% 28.0% 200.0% 181.2%
Edward Leigh 160.0% 153.2% 40.0% 40.0% 200.0% 193.2%
The annual bonus outturn in cash and shares is as follows:
Payable
in cash
£’000
Deferred 
Share
Award
£’000
LTIP
Share
Award
£’000
André Lacroix 540.1 540.1 2,237.5
2
Wolfhart Hauser
1
247.5 247.5 –
Edward Leigh 386.2 386.2 800
2
1. As a result of his retirement as a Director on 16 May 2015 and ceasing employment with Intertek on 31 December 2015, it was determined that no LTIP would be awarded for 2015.
2. See page 76: LTIP awards to be granted later in 2016.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the final bonus outcome downwards if it considers short-term performance has been 
achieved at the expense of long-term future success. The Committee may also adjust the final bonus outcome upwards to 
recognise exceptional circumstances that were beyond the direct responsibility of the Executive Director and the Executive has 
managed and mitigated the impact of any loss. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in respect of the above bonus 
outturn.
Both the cash and share elements of the bonus are subject to malus and clawback. Overpayments may be reclaimed in the  
event of performance achievements being found to be significantly misstated.
VESTING OF LTIP SHARE AWARDS
The LTIP Share awards granted in 2013 are based on performance for the three-year period ended 31 December 2015.  
The performance conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these conditions is as follows:
Metric Performance condition
Threshold
 target
Stretch 
target
Actual
 performance
Vesting 
level
Earnings Per Share Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS 
growth, calculated on the basis of foreign 
exchange rates adopted at the start of the 
performance cycle
6% 16% 4.1% 0%
Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR performance against the 
FTSE 31 to 130 (excluding banks and 
investment trusts)
Median Upper
quartile
Below
median
1
0%
Total vesting 0%
1. TSR performance calculation was calculated by Deloitte; Intertek was ranked 68th of the 92 members of the comparator group of companies.
The LTIP Share awards granted in 2013 to the Executive Directors were as follows:
Executive Director
Number 
of shares
at grant
Number of 
shares based 
on accrued 
dividends
Total number
of shares 
Number
of shares
to lapse
Number
of shares
to vest
1
Value
£
Wolfhart Hauser
2
41,378 2,079 43,457 (43,457) – –
Edward Leigh
3
1,755 88 1,843 (1,843) – –
Total vesting
1. The 2013 award includes accrual of dividends paid and payable during the vesting period.
2.  Awards granted on 5 March 2013 to be pro-rated to reflect 33 months employment out of 36 month term. 
3.  Awards granted on 20 May 2013 which reflect awards made prior to Edward Leigh’s appointment as CFO on 1 October 2014.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 72
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
LTIP SHARE AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR
The following LTIP Share awards were granted to the Executive Directors on 22 September 2015:
Type of award
Basis of 
award
granted
Share price
at date
of grant
 £
Number
of shares
over which 
award was 
granted
Face value of
award 
£’000
% of face
value that 
would vest 
at threshold 
performance
Vesting
determined by 
performance 
over
André Lacroix LTIP Share
Award
250%
of salary 
24.74 90,440 2,237 25% Three 
years to 31 
December 
2017
Edward Leigh LTIP Share
Award
200% 
of salary
24.74 32,336 800 25%
The LTIP Share awards granted in 2015 are based on performance for the three-year period ended 31 December 2017.  
During 2015, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Group’s largest shareholders on the EPS performance targets  
for the 2015 LTIP awards.
Following a review of the challenging trading environment within which the Company is operating in, particularly within the oil 
and gas capex and minerals business, and having reviewed external expectations over the performance period, the Remuneration 
Committee considered it appropriate to re-position the EPS targets that apply for the 2015 awards (which will apply to 50% of the 
award). In line with this consultation, the performance conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these 
conditions is as follows:
Metric Performance condition
Threshold
 target
Stretch 
target
Earnings Per Share Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS growth, 
calculated on the basis of foreign exchange rates 
adopted at the start of the performance cycle
4% 10%
Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR performance against the FTSE 31 to 130 
(excluding banks and investment trusts)
Median Upper 
quartile
MIRROR SHARE AWARDS 
On 20 May 2015 André Lacroix was granted conditional rights to acquire 183,149 shares under a one-off arrangement as a 
condition of his recruitment as CEO of the Company. The principal terms of the award are summarised below. The award 
comprised two parts, tranche A and B, with tranche A vesting on 20 May 2016 and tranche B vesting on 20 May 2017. 
Type of award
Granted
in 2015
Number
of shares
Award price
 £
Dividend
accrued 
in 2015 
Vested in 
2015
Number of
shares 
Lapsed in 
2015
Number 
of shares
31 December
2015
Number 
of shares
Date of 
vesting
Mirror Award Tranche A 91,575 28.006 1,810 – – 93,385 May 2016
Mirror Award Tranche B 91,574 28.006 1,810 – – 93,384 May 2017
Total 183,149 – 3,620 – – 186,769
Shares were awarded at a share price of £28.006, being the average closing mid-market price of an ordinary share of 1p on the 
trading days during the first 10 calendar days of September 2014 (being the date used for the calculation of the mirror awards in 
the negotiations with the Director). Each tranche will ordinarily vest on its normal vesting date subject to André Lacroix’s continued 
employment with Intertek. The awards may only be satisfied with market purchased shares or cash. No newly issued shares or 
treasury shares will be used in connection with the awards. The Mirror Share awards attract dividend equivalent shares. 73 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
SHARE PLAN AWARDS
The table below shows the Directors’ interests in the Intertek share plans:
Type 
of 
Award 
31 December 
2014
Number
of shares
Granted in
2015
Number
of shares
Award 
price
1
£
Dividend
accrued in
2015
9
Vested in
2015
Number
of shares
2
Lapsed in
2015
Number
of shares
31 December
2015
Number
of shares
Date of
vesting
André Lacroix
2015
7
LTIP Share – 90,440 24.74 – – – 90,440 Sep 2018
Dividend – – – 612 – – 612
Total – 90,440 – 612 – – 91,052
Edward Leigh
2013
4
Share 1,755 – 34.17 – – – 1,755 May 2016
Dividend 53 – – 35 – – 88
Performance 1,755 – 34.17 – – – 1,755 May 2016
Dividend 53 – – 35 – – 88
2014
5
Deferred 
Share
1,331 – 30.41 – – – 1,331 Mar 2017
Dividend 22 – – 26 – – 48
LTIP Share 6,576 – 30.41 – – – 6,576 Mar 2017
Dividend 111 – – 130 – – 241
2015 Deferred 
Share
6
 
– 5,405 25.572 – – – 5,405 Mar 2018
Dividend – – – 106 – – 106
LTIP Share
7
– 32,336 24.74 – – – 32,336 Sep 2018
Dividend – – – 218 – – 218
Total 11,656 37,741 – 550 – – 49,947
Wolfhart Hauser
2012 Share 28,696 – 23.24 – (28,696) – – Mar 2015
Dividend 1,258 – – – (1,258) – –
Performance 57,392 – 23.24 – (14,462) (42,930) – Mar 2015
Dividend 2,517 – – – (634) (1,883) –
2013 Share
8
20,689 – 33.528 – – – 20,689 Jan 2016
Dividend 630 – – 409 – – 1,039
Performance
3
41,378 – 33.528 – – – 41,378 Mar 2016
Dividend 1,261 – – 818 – – 2,079
2014 Deferred 
Share
8
 
10,507 – 30.41 – – – 10,507 Jan 2016
Dividend
8
177 – – 208 – – 385
LTIP Share
5
46,991 – 30.41 – – – 46,991 Mar 2017
Dividend 794 – – 929 – – 1,723
2015 Deferred 
Share
8
 
– 12,585 25.572 – – – 12,585 Jan 2016
Dividend
8
– – – 248 – – 248
Total 212,290 12,585 – 2,612 (45,050) (44,813) 137,624
1. Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. 
2. Awards vested on 6 March 2015, on which date the closing market price of shares was £25.7967 having been granted on 6 March 2012 on which date the closing market price was £22.62. 
3.  Awards will vest on 5 March 2016, subject to performance and continued employment, having been granted on 5 March 2013 on which date the closing market price was £34.40. 50% of 
awards are subject to EPS and 50% are subject to relative TSR. The EPS threshold level was set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 16% per annum. Under the TSR condition, the 
Company’s TSR ranking is measured relative to the FTSE index members 31 to 130 (excluding banks and investment trusts).
4.  Awards will vest on 20 May 2016, subject to performance and continued employment, having been granted on 20 May 2013 on which date the closing market price was £33.27. 50%  
of awards are subject to EPS and 50% are subject to relative TSR. The EPS threshold level was set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 16% per annum. Under the TSR condition,  
the Company’s TSR ranking is measured relative to the FTSE index members 31 to 130 (excluding banks and investment trusts).
5.  Awards will vest on 10 March 2017, subject to performance and continued employment, having been granted on 10 March 2014 on which date the closing market price was £30.46. 50%  
of awards are subject to EPS and 50% are subject to relative TSR. The EPS threshold level was set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 14% per annum. Under the TSR condition, the 
Company’s TSR ranking is measured relative to the FTSE index members 31 to 130 (excluding banks and investment trusts).
6. Awards will vest on 9 March 2018, subject to continued employment, having been granted on 9 March 2015 on which date the closing market price was £25.70. 
7.  Awards will vest on 22 September 2018, subject to performance and continued employment, having been granted on 22 September 2015 on which date the closing market price was £23.94. 
50% of awards are subject to EPS and 50% are subject to relative TSR. The EPS threshold level was set at 4% per annum and the upper target at 10% per annum. Under the TSR condition, 
the Company’s TSR ranking is measured relative to the FTSE index members 31 to 130 (excluding banks and investment trusts).
8. Awards vested in January 2016, and will be held until the original vesting dates.
9.  The dividend shares are accrued on the date the dividend is paid and determined using the closing market price of the shares on that date. The dividend accruals relate to share awards made 
in lieu of not receiving cash dividends during the vesting period. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 74
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
MALUS AND CLAWBACK 
Malus and clawback will operate in circumstances where there is reasonable evidence of misbehaviour or material error, conduct 
considered gross misconduct, breach of any restrictive covenants by participants, conduct which resulted in (a) significant loss(es) 
to the Company, failure to meet appropriate standards of fitness and proprietary; a material failure of management in the 
Company; a discovery of a material misstatement in the audited consolidated accounts or the behaviour of a Director has a 
significant detrimental impact on the reputation of the Group.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year end, or date of retirement, are set out below. Save as 
stated in this report, during the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her immediate family had any other 
interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Beneficially
owned at 
31 December
2014 or on
appointment
Beneficially
owned at
31 December
2015 or on
retirement
7
 
Outstanding
LTIP
Share
Awards
Outstanding
Deferred
 Shares/
Mirror Awards
Outstanding
Share Award
dividends
Shareholding
as a % of
salary
3
Shareholding
guideline
met?
André Lacroix
1
– 100,000 90,440 183,149 4,232 310
3
Yes
Edward Leigh 1,000 1,000 40,667 8,491 789 7
3
No
2
Edward Astle 1,220 1,443 – – – n/a n/a
Alan Brown 1,391
8
1,623 – – – n/a n/a
Dame Louise Makin 342 546 – – – n/a n/a
Sir David Reid 2,192 2,828 – – – n/a n/a
Gill Rider
4
 – – – – – n/a n/a
Michael Wareing 3,578 3,801 – – – n/a n/a
Mark Williams 2,172 2,384 – – n/a n/a
Lena Wilson 326 530 – – – n/a n/a
Wolfhart Hauser
5
139,777 150,554 88,369 43,781 2,862 557
6
Yes
Christopher Knight
5
7,601 7,813 – – – n/a n/a
1. Appointed 16 May 2015.
2.  Appointed on 1 October 2014 with the guideline to hold 150% of base salary in shares by 1 October 2019. This guideline is to be increased to 200% once the remuneration policy is  
approved by shareholders in 2016 and must be met five years after that point. 
3. Based on a share price of £27.77 as at 31 December 2015.
4. Appointed 1 July 2015.
5. As at date of retirement, 15 May 2015.
6. As at date of retirement, based on a share price as at 15 May 2015 of £26.95.
7. No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report 
8. The number of shares beneficially owned at 31 December 2014 have been restated to include an additional 21 ordinary shares acquired as part of a dividend reinvestment scheme.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS 
Wolfhart Hauser
After retiring as CEO and Executive Director on 15 May 2015, Wolfhart Hauser remained an employee and was available to provide 
support to André Lacroix as required until 31 December 2015. Wolfhart Hauser received his full salary and benefits for the period 
15 May 2015 until 31 December 2015. No payment was made in lieu of notice.
He was eligible for an annual bonus in 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 15 May 2015 which was calculated according  
to the usual full year criteria and pro-rated. It will be paid in 2016 and is disclosed in the single figure of remuneration. No bonus 
was paid for the period from 16 May 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Wolfhart Hauser did not receive an LTIP Share Award for 2015. The 2011 LTIP awards made in 2013 and 2014 will vest as follows: 
his Deferred Share Awards were released in full (after 31 December 2015) and will be held until the original vesting dates, his LTIP 
Share Awards will vest according to the original dates and criteria and be pro-rated for time served. The Performance Shares 
awarded in 2012 vested on 6 March 2015. As noted earlier in the report, following a review of the performance criteria,  
the 2013 LTIP award will lapse in full.
Christopher Knight
No remuneration payments were made following his retirement and no payments have been made for loss of office.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE 
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2015.  75 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION LEVELS 
The table below shows the average movement in salary and annual bonus for UK employees between the 2014 and 2015 financial 
years. In 2015 Wolfhart Hauser’s salary was unchanged from his 2014 award of £729,000 as part of the Group’s salary review.  
On taking up his appointment as CEO on 16 May 2015, André Lacroix’s salary was £895,000 for 2015.
Salary Bonus Benefits
CEO (W Hauser
1
) 0% (23.1)% (68.1)%
CEO (A Lacroix
2
) – – –
Average pay based on Intertek’s UK employees 2.8% 16% 1.2%
1. The percentage change for bonus and benefits for Wolfhart Hauser are based on actual amounts earned as set out on page 70.
2. There were no salary, bonus and benefits in the comparative period for André Lacroix.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs between the 2014 and 2015 financial years, compared to dividends.
2015
£m
2014
£m % change
Staff costs* 956.2 921.5 3.8%
Dividends 80.7 75.5 6.9%
* Staff costs are shown at actual rates, which include a 0.2% foreign exchange impact.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over the last seven financial years, compared with the TSR for the FTSE 
100 Index. TSR, reflecting the change in the value of a share and dividends paid, can be represented by the value of a notional 
£100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
TSR performance
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
50
0
100
150
200
250
300
Intertek Group v FTSE 100 Intertek Group
FTSE 100
£
CEO TOTAL REMUNERATION 
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during each of the past six financial years are shown in the table below. Consistent 
with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total 
annual bonus and Deferred Share Award based on that year’s performance and LTIP Share awards based on the three-year 
performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus pay-out and LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the 
maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
Year ended 31 December
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
2015
W Hauser
2015
A Lacroix
Total remuneration £’000 2,451 3,164 4,554 5,298 3,195 2,011
1
876 1,824
Annual bonus (%) 100 96.6 92.3 83.1 34.6 38.4 90.6 96.6
LTIP award vesting (%) 100 100 100 100 81.8 25.2 – –
1. The total remuneration figure for 2014 has been updated to include the actual value of the vested 2011 LTIP share award. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 76
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
CEO TOTAL REMUNERATION
The graph below shows the total remuneration of the Intertek CEO over the seven year period from 2009 to 2015. 
CEO total remuneration figure
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (WH)
1
2015 (AL)
2
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
Annual Bonus
Pension
LTIP (share price increase)
4
LTIP (award share price)
3
Proportion based on
share price increase
Beneﬁts
Salary
£’000
1. Shows W Hauser remuneration based on period to 15 May 2015.
2. Shows A Lacroix remuneration for the period from appointment as CEO on 16 May 2015.
3. LTIP (award share price) shows the proportion of the LTIP value received which resulted from the share price on award date.
4. LTIP (share price increase) shows the proportion of the LTIP value received which resulted from increase in the share price over the vesting period.
THE IMPACT OF SHARE PRICE ON THE VALUE OF THE CEO’S LTIP AWARD
The table below shows the change in share price from the date of award to the vesting of LTIP share awards for the 2010 to 2015 
financial years for Wolfhart Hauser.
LTIP award
share price
£
LTIP vesting
share price
£
Share price
change 
over the
 performance
period
2010 9.15 19.06 108.3%
2011 8.34 24.34 191.8%
2012 13.33 34.37 157.8%
2013 18.99 30.59 61.1%
2014 23.24 25.80 11.0%
2015 33.53 26.57
1
(20.8)%
1. The value shown for the 2015 vesting share price is the average price during the three months to 31 December 2015; this will be updated to actual vesting share price in the 2016 Report.
REMUNERATION DECISIONS TAKEN IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2016
Base salary
Following a review of each individual’s performance in the year, the Remuneration Committee approved salary increase of 2%  
for the Executive Directors. This is in line with the increase provided to UK employees in the Group.
The Executive Directors’ salaries are:
 
Base salary
from 
1 April 2015
£’000
Base salary 
from 
1 April 2016
£’000 % increase
André Lacroix
1
895 913 2.0%
Edward Leigh 400 408 2.0%
1. The 2015 base salary for André Lacroix is shown as the annual salary awarded on taking up the role of CEO.
Annual Bonus and LTIP awards to be granted in 2016
For 2016, the annual bonus opportunity expressed as a percentage of base salary will be 200% for the CEO and CFO.  
The Committee has determined that the Annual Bonus will be based on financial performance as follows:
• 80% will be determined by a matrix (illustration provided below) based on revenue growth and operating profit growth; and
• 20% will be based on return on invested capital performance.
Annual Bonus will continue to be subject to a quality of earnings review at the end of the year to ensure that pay-outs are 
appropriate based on the underlying performance of the Group and to ensure that any awards are commensurate with the 
Group’s culture and values.  77 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Overview of the matrix (80% of the award)
Operating profit performance (£m)
Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum
Revenue  
performance  
(£m)
Maximum 0% 40% 65% 100%
Target 0% 30% 50% 75%
Threshold 0% 25% 35% 60%
Below threshold 0% 0% 0% 0%
Straight line pay-outs occur between each of the points noted above. 
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include  
items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. In accordance with good governance, the Committee is however 
committed to providing insightful and transparent disclosure to our shareholders. In this regard, and in line with the Investment 
Association’s position regarding bonus target disclosure, the Committee will disclose the performance targets for the annual 
incentive as soon as they are no longer considered to be commercially sensitive.
For 2016, the LTIP opportunity for the CEO and CFO will be 250% and 200% of salary respectively. The Committee reviewed  
the performance targets for awards to be made in 2016, and in line with the targets set for the 2015 LTIP award, the Committee 
considered it appropriate to appropriate to set the following targets for the 2016 LTIP awards:
Metric Performance condition
Threshold
target
Stretch
target
Earnings Per Share Annualised fully diluted, adjusted EPS growth, calculated  
on the basis of foreign exchange rates adopted at the start  
of the performance cycle
4% 10%
Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR performance against the FTSE 31 to 130  
(excluding banks and investment trusts)
Median Upper
quartile
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES
As detailed in the remuneration policy, fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board, based on the 
responsibility and time committed to the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual Non-Executive  
Directors do not take part in discussions regarding their own fees. A summary of current fees is as follows:
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
Board membership
Chairman 320 320
Non-Executive Director 58 58
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 12 12
Committee membership 
Chair Audit & Risk Committee 20 20
Chair Remuneration Committee 15 15
Chair Nomination Committee – –
Member Audit & Risk Committee 10 10
Member Remuneration Committee 7.5 7.5
Member Nomination Committee 2.5 2.5
Pursuant to the policy of aligning Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, £10,000 of the fees paid to the Non-Executive 
Directors and £30,000 of the fees paid to the Chairman are used each year to purchase shares in the Company. 
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration report
The Directors’ Remuneration report, including both the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report and Annual Report  
on Remuneration, was approved by the Board on 1 March 2016.
GILL RIDER
Chair of the Remuneration Committee DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 78
Directors’ report
Audit & Risk Committee
Michael Wareing – Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to present this year’s report of the Audit & Risk 
Committee (‘Committee’). The report outlines the activities and 
the responsibilities of the Committee, on behalf of the Board,  
in scrutinising the conduct of the business, its management  
and auditors to protect the interests of shareholders. During  
the year the Committee continued to draw on the 
recommendations in last year’s review of the Group’s total 
assurance and risk management framework. One of the 
changes introduced in the 2014 version of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘Code’) is focused on risk management and 
internal control. In light of this, we reviewed the Committee’s 
procedures to ensure that the Group continues to comply  
with the requirements of the Code.
A further key aspect of the Committee’s work during the  
year was to oversee a formal and comprehensive tender process 
for the external auditor appointment. Following the completion 
of the tender process, the Board agreed to recommend to 
shareholders, for approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’), the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(‘PwC’) as the Group’s auditor for the year ending 31 December 
2016. The Group’s current auditor, KPMG Audit Plc (‘KPMG’), 
has continued in the role and has undertaken the audit of the 
Group’s consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2015. On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank KPMG 
for their significant contribution as the Group’s auditor over 
many years. We expect an orderly transition and look forward 
to working with PwC in the future. The audit tender process is 
described in more detail in the following pages, together with 
the Committee’s other activities during the year, which include 
a thorough review of the internal audit function. During the 
year the Committee also ensured that separate meetings with 
the CFO, Group General Counsel, Head of Internal Audit and 
the external auditor without management present took place  
in order to provide a forum for any issues to be raised. 
Finally, there have been a number of changes during the year  
to the membership of the Committee. As announced, 
Christopher Knight retired at the 2015 AGM and Alan Brown 
joined the Committee on 1 July 2015. I am pleased to welcome 
Alan as a member of the Committee, and his relevant industry 
experience adds breadth and knowledge. 
The external evaluation of the performance of the Committee 
was conducted during the year and it was shown that the 
Committee is able and effective in discharging its duties in 
accordance with its Terms of Reference and the requirements  
of the Code. 
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE
Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Committee Members Number of meetings held in 2015 
Eligible to attend Attendance 
Michael Wareing
(Committee Chair) 
5 5
Edward Astle 5 5
Christopher Knight
1
2 2
Alan Brown
2
3 3
Lena Wilson 5 5
1. Christopher Knight retired from the Committee on 15 May 2015 
2. Alan Brown joined the Committee on 1 July 2015
Throughout 2015, the composition of the Committee was in 
compliance with the Code and all members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board had determined that 
Michael Wareing has recent and relevant financial experience. 
Alan Brown also has relevant financial experience as detailed  
in his biography on page 57.
New Committee members receive an appropriate induction, 
consisting of the review of the Terms of Reference, previous 
Committee meeting papers, information on the Company’s 
financial and operational risks and also have access to senior 
operational staff and the Group’s internal and external auditors.
The business of the Committee is linked to the Group’s financial 
calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.  
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, 
Group Financial Controller, Group General Counsel, the Head  
of Internal Audit and the audit partner and audit lead from 
KPMG attended all meetings. Other senior executives were 
invited to attend the Committee meetings as required. The 
Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website at www.intertek.com. 
ROLE AND ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE
The Board has authorised the Committee to review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s financial reporting and  
internal controls and risk management systems together with 
procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting  
of key risks. A summary of the key matters considered by the 
Committee during 2015 is set out below and on the next page.
Audit & Risk Committee agenda items 2015
Financial statements and reports Feb May Jul Sep Dec
Full year results 2014
• Annual Report and Accounts 2014
• Management highlights memorandum
• • Going concern assessment
• • Fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment
• Review of significant accounting policies
• Half year results 2015
• Viability Statement Methodology
• Internal Controls sign-off
• Review of models and methodology for 
impairment testing
• 79 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
External audit Feb May Jul Sep Dec
Audit strategy & plan 2015
• Audit fee proposal 2015
• Engagement letter
• Non-audit fees review of policy,  
spend and cap
• Update on non-audit fees
• Report on interim findings
• KPMG highlights/review memorandum
• • KPMG effectiveness
• Letter of representation to the auditors
• • External audit tender – update & auditor 
presentations
• • Internal audit
2016 Internal Audit plan
• Internal audit reports
• • • • Internal audit effectiveness
• Governance, risk and assurance
Group risk register review
• • Compliance and operational risk report
• • • • Key claims report
• • • • Other
2015 rolling Committee agenda
• Discussion on Finance Systems,  
Controls and Transformation
• Review and endorsement  
of Tax and Treasury policies
• SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE 
In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews  
the significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements  
to be applied in the financial statements and discusses their 
application with management. The external auditor also 
considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part  
of the external audit. 
In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares  
a report for the Committee on both the half year and full  
year results, which summarises the approach to key risks  
in the external audit and highlights any issues arising out  
of their work on those risks, or any other work undertaken  
on the audit. During the year, the Committee reviewed and 
considered the following areas of judgement to be exercised  
in the application of the accounting policies:
Claims
From time to time the Group is involved in various claims and 
lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business. The 
Committee considered the claims provision which reflects  
the estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified 
claims from customers, former employees and others. The 
Committee noted that once claims have been notified the 
finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether  
a provision is required, based on IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent 
liabilities and Contingent assets‘ (‘IAS 37‘). 
The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular 
basis with the Group General Counsel, taking into account the 
advice of external legal counsel. The Group General Counsel 
briefs the Committee at every meeting on the latest status  
of key claims and the level of provision. The Committee, 
following assurance from management and review of the 
report presented by the external auditor, considered and agreed 
that the claims provision was appropriate given the size, status 
and number of claims reported during the year.
Taxation 
The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated 
according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation 
and application of which can be uncertain. In addition, deferred 
tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the 
amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the 
timing and level of future taxable income. The main areas  
of judgement in the Group tax calculation are the expected 
central tax provisions for the full year and the recognition of  
the UK deferred tax asset. Twice a year, the Committee receives 
a report from management providing an evaluation of existing 
risks and tax provisions which is reviewed and rigorously 
challenged by the Committee. The Committee also considered 
reports presented by the external auditor before determining 
that the levels of tax provisioning were appropriate.
Restructuring
In reviewing the provision for restructuring, details of which  
are contained in the financial review on page 36 and in note  
3 to the financial statements, the Committee reviewed details 
of each of the activities pursued as part of the restructuring  
to ensure that the appropriate level of provision is put in place. 
The Committee also sought confirmation from the external 
auditor that the restructuring plan met the criteria for 
recognising a provision under IAS 37 before determining  
that the provision was appropriate.
Accounting for acquisitions
In November 2015, the Group made the significant acquisition 
of PSI in the US. The recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, 
other assets and liabilities and estimates of the fair value  
of consideration transferred are all based on a number of 
assumptions. The Committee considered the valuation of these 
assets and liabilities, and reviewed management’s assumptions 
underpinning the valuations. Management is required to 
estimate the fair value of the consideration transferred and 
 to estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, 
including any separately identifiable intangible assets, and 
engaged external advisers as necessary to support this process. 
The Committee has reviewed management’s accounting papers 
on the acquisition, and taken into account the report presented 
by the external auditor, before determining that the acquisition 
accounting is appropriate.
Impairment
The Group’s strategy includes acquisition-led growth to 
generate new services and expand into new locations. These 
acquisitions, being in the service sector, generate significant 
goodwill that benefits the Group as a whole and specifically  
the business to which the acquisition relates. Goodwill, 
aggregated at the business line level, must be tested annually 
for impairment under IAS 36 ‘Impairment‘ (‘IAS 36‘), or when 
there are indicators of impairment. These indicators include 
poor performance compared to budget.  DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 80
Directors’ report
Audit & Risk Committee continued
The Committee reviewed the impairment consideration and 
calculations prepared by management considering the trading 
assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities 
included by management, details of which are contained in 
note 9 to the financial statements. The Committee also took 
into account the work undertaken by the external auditor in 
respect of impairment and is satisfied that the impairment 
recorded against the Industry Services cash-generating unit 
(‘CGU‘) is appropriate, and that no impairment is required 
against any other CGU.
The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation 
to the financial statements were consistent, with the exception 
of restructuring, with those identified by the external auditor  
in their report on pages 138 to 140.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT
Further to the request of the Board, the Committee has 
reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts with the intention  
of providing advice to the Board on whether, as required by  
the Code, the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary 
information for shareholders and other readers of the Annual 
Report and Accounts to assess the Group’s position and 
performance for 2015, its business model and strategy.  
In justifying this statement, the Committee has considered  
the robust process that underpins it, which includes: 
• Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, 
including at business line level; 
• Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements were 
monitored on a regular basis;
• Pre year-end discussions held with the external auditor in 
advance of the year-end reporting process;
• Pre year-end input provided by senior management and 
corporate functions;
• A verification process dealing with the factual content of the 
reports to ensure accuracy and consistency;
• Comprehensive review by the senior management team to 
ensure overall consistency and balance;
• Review conducted by external advisers and the external 
auditor on best practice with regard to the content and 
structure of the Annual Report and Accounts;
• Review and consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts 
by the Committee; and
• Final sign-off provided by the Board.
The results are presented to the Committee to ensure 
compliance with the Code. The Committee challenge 
judgemental statements to ensure that they are reasonable 
within the context of the report. 
This process enabled the Committee, and then the Board,  
to confirm that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER
In November 2014, the Committee agreed to start the process 
for the formal tender of the external audit with the intention  
of selecting a new external auditor to be appointed for the  
year ending 31 December 2016 following the completion  
of the 2015 year end process and recommending their 
appointment at the 2016 AGM.
KPMG were not invited to participate in the audit tender.  
The process was led by an audit tender team comprising the 
Committee Chair, the CFO, the Group Financial Controller and 
the Deputy Group Financial Controller. It included a Request  
for Proposal, interviews with management and the Committee, 
and site visits followed by an assessment of the proposals.  
The Committee reviewed and approved the tender process, 
governance and selection criteria. Following the first stage  
of the process, two shortlisted firms were invited to respond  
to specific questions from the Committee and then to present 
to the Committee, followed by a Q&A session. At the 
conclusion of the second stage of the process, the Committee 
discussed their findings and the audit tender team made  
a recommendation to the Committee. The Committee  
then made a recommendation to appoint PwC which  
was approved by the Board. 
Following the conclusion of the formal tender process,  
a resolution proposing the appointment of PwC as auditor  
of the Group for the year ending 31 December 2016 and  
giving authority to the Directors to determine its remuneration 
will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM. 
INDEPENDENCE
The Terms of Reference of the Committee include ensuring the 
continued independence and objectivity of the Group’s external 
auditors. This is achieved through:
• The annual approval of the policy for the engagement  
of external auditors for audit and non-audit services;
• Setting limits and a budget for non-audit spend for the 
external auditors;
• An annual review of the auditors performance in conducting 
the external audit; and
• Where appropriate, audit tendering and rotation. 
AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The Company has set out a policy on the provision of non-audit 
work by the external auditors to make sure that the auditors’ 
independence is safeguarded. The policy was reviewed during 
the year and is consistent with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards No. 5 – Non Audit Services. The policy  
is designed to ensure that the provision of such services  
does not create a threat to the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the external 
auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and 
actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting 
estimates for the financial statements, appraisal or valuation 
services, tax services in relation to marketing, planning or 
opining in favour of a transaction and any other services that, 
locally, are prohibited through regulation. An annual cap for 
non-audit services is presented to the Committee for approval, 
which should not ordinarily exceed 50% of the audit fee. Caps 
are also assigned to each category, compared to spend in the 
previous two years and prior approval is required for all items 
over an agreed level.
A report is presented to the Committee twice a year showing 
year to date spend against each category of the annual cap 
previously approved by the Committee. 
The policy also recognises that there are some types of  
work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed 
understanding of the Group’s business is advantageous.   81 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The policy is designed to ensure that the external auditor is only 
appointed to provide a non-audit service where it was subject 
to a competitive tender and is considered to be the most 
suitable supplier of the service. 
A summary of the fees paid for non-audit fees is set out in  
the table below and further information is contained in note  
4 to the financial statements on page 100:
Auditor fee breakdown
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total non-audit fees, of which 0.6 0.6
– audit related services – –
– tax services 0.4 0.4
– other non-audit services 0.2 0.2
Audit fee 2.5 2.3
% of audit fee 25% 26%
The Committee remains satisfied with KPMG’s independence 
and their overall challenge to management with respect to the 
work undertaken in 2015 and in respect of this Annual Report 
and Accounts. PwC have confirmed their independence in 
preparation for their appointment as auditor following the  
2016 AGM.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee conducts an annual assessment of the 
effectiveness of the external audit. During the year KPMG 
presented its approach to maintaining audit quality to the 
Committee and a questionnaire was circulated to those within 
the Group who were involved in the audit process seeking their 
views on the service provided as to adequacy of planning, 
resources, fieldwork and quality of reporting. The Committee 
considered in detail the feedback received from the internal 
review, KPMG’s performance and independence and the 
effectiveness of the overall audit process.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is responsible for monitoring the Group’s system  
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing  
their effectiveness. Risk management and internal controls are 
embedded in the running of each business line, country and 
support function. The risk register process follows the global 
organisation, and risk registers are produced for significant 
countries and for each business line and support function, and 
then consolidated at Group level. The time commitment and 
breadth of data gathering in completing the risk registers have 
been expanded and have been reviewed in the context of the 
wider controls framework initiatives. The Committee reviews 
the Group risk register twice a year and presents the register  
to the Board for final approval in December.
A detailed verification programme assists the Committee to 
check that all the statements made in the Annual Report and 
Accounts are accurate. Intertek’s Manual of Accounting Policies 
and Procedures is issued to all finance staff and gives 
instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting and 
reporting that apply to the Group. The Intertek Core Control 
Framework is a key Group-wide framework that provides an 
easy reference to the core elements of the Group’s Governance 
Framework. It includes those mandatory policies applying 
across the Group in all locations and provides a single place 
where each employee has easy access to mandatory policies. 
This is reviewed and refreshed on a regular basis to reflect  
the changes in the risk and governance environments.
Group Core Control Framework
Approved by the Board
Mission Statement
Group Strategy
Focus on Customer 
& Shareholders
Mission & Strategy Group Policies
Approved by Executive 
Management Team
RCA review new policies
Mandatory across 
the Group
Dedicated Policy Owners
Change Control Process
Business Line Policies 
Support Function 
Policies
Approved by Strategy 
Unit COO
Non-Mandatory 
at Group Level
Business Line Policies 
(Technical)
Support Function 
Policies (Non-Technical)
Any material breaches of the Group’s systems of internal and 
risk management controls that are identified by the Group’s 
control review procedures are reported to the Committee and 
corrective action is taken. The Committee endeavours to ensure 
that the Group has in place the most appropriate and effective 
controls, checks, systems, and risk management techniques so 
as to be in line with best practice. The control environment 
within the Group is further strengthened by two internal 
Committees. The Risk Control and Assurance Committee 
(‘RCA’) has the remit of overseeing the development of the 
internal control and an Investment Committee (‘IC’) is in place 
with the remit of reviewing and approving material expenditure 
and other key actions throughout the business within certain 
limits as outlined in the Board Approval Matrix. Further 
information on the membership and remit of the RCA  
and IC is on page 62.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND REPORTING 
In order to provide assurance that the Intertek controls and 
policy framework is being adhered to, a self-certification 
exercise is undertaken across the Group’s global operations. 
This process is facilitated by Company Secretariat. An online 
questionnaire requesting confirmation of adherence to financial 
and operation controls is sent to all Intertek country operations. 
Where corrective actions are needed, the country is required to 
provide an outline and a confirmed timeline. These items are 
monitored closely to ensure timely completion. 
Once reviewed and signed-off at country level, a consolidated 
assessment is made at regional level for further approval.  
An evaluation is undertaken with Executive Vice-Presidents 
following which a company-wide position is submitted to the 
CEO and the CFO. A final summary assessment is provided  
to the Committee.
The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the Group’s 
internal controls and risk management systems and concluded 
that there was a sound and effective control environment in 
place across the Group during 2015 and up to the date upon 
which these financial statements were approved. No material 
weaknesses had been identified. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 82
Directors’ report
Audit & Risk Committee continued
AUDIT AND RISK STRATEGY
The Audit and Risk Strategy was presented to the Committee 
during the year. The strategy has focused on ensuring that the 
programme is annually strengthened and enhanced to reflect 
the size and global reach of the Intertek Group. The Group has 
a programme of training and on-line courses for compliance 
matters, covering topics such as health and safety, anti-bribery, 
and integrity. The Group has a zero-tolerance policy to any 
bribery. Every employee is required to sign a zero-tolerance 
document confirming their understanding that any breaches  
of the Group’s Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action 
that may include summary dismissal. Each year as part of the 
appraisal process every employee is asked to confirm their 
understanding of and adherence to the Code of Ethics. 
As highlighted, our Code of Ethics was reviewed and updated 
in 2014 to simplify and consolidate Intertek’s approach to 
compliance. This has reinforced the Intertek Compliance 
Principles in respect of integrity, conflicts of interest, 
confidentiality, anti-bribery and fair marketing and 
strengthened our approach to protecting our environment.  
The Code of Ethics is available on the Group’s website.  
An on-line training programme was developed for the new 
Code of Ethics and was rolled out to employees during 2015. 
The Code of Ethics is available in 28 languages.
CONFIDENTIAL HOTLINE
We are committed to maintaining a culture where issues  
of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed. 
There is a global hotline system, which is operated by an 
independent third party, providing a web-based system in  
24 languages, for the confidential reporting of any suspected  
or real breaches in compliance by any employee, contractor, 
customer or other stakeholder. There is also a telephone hotline 
where calls are answered 24/7 by trained specialists. This 
underpins the ethics programme and also helps the business 
protect itself against any unethical behaviour. The details of the 
hotline have been communicated to staff through the Group’s 
main intranet page and by posters at Intertek locations. All 
reports are investigated thoroughly, with action taken when 
required. Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines 
are also provided to the Committee, if appropriate.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The annual Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the 
Committee. Where there is no internal expertise to perform a 
specialised audit, a third party auditor with the requisite skills  
is appointed to undertake the audit, the findings of which  
are reported to the Committee. In its quarterly reports to  
the Committee, Internal Audit provided summaries of each 
audit performed, with commentary on the robustness of  
risk management activities and internal control design and 
operating effectiveness. In 2015 there was a varied plan of 
work across key risk areas, including reviews of businesses, 
functions and projects, as well as regular follow-up activities. 
As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed  
the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.  
In addition a more detailed external benchmarking review  
was performed in July by Deloitte. This was the first such review 
performed, and led to the conclusion that the function was 
effective. It also provided useful input for the future direction  
of the department. 
COMPLIANCE
We have dedicated compliance officers across the Group’s 
markets who undertake investigations of issues that arise either 
from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as 
routine compliance questions. Reports of significant findings 
are presented to the Committee which monitors and reviews 
the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control 
activities across the Company.
PRIORITIES FOR 2016
The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months  
are as follows:
• Oversee an orderly transition to the new external auditor; 
• Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors 
on the Group and its financial position; and
• Monitor any relevant changes in the corporate governance 
and regulatory arena.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from the 
date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts, and have 
therefore assessed that the going concern basis of accounting is 
appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there 
are no material uncertainties to disclose. 
This conclusion is based on a review and an assessment of the 
levels of facilities expected to be available to the Group, based 
on levels of cash held, Group Treasury funding projections, and 
the Group’s financial projections for a period to 31 December 
2020. With the exception of £91m of facilities maturing in 
2016, all the current borrowing facilities are expected to be 
available at 31 December 2016.
In making this assessment, management has considered the 
covenants attached to the Group’s borrowing facilities and 
performed downside scenarios on the Group’s financial 
projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast. 
Even in these circumstances, there is significant headroom on 
the debt covenants.
After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation based upon current financial projections and bank 
facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Group’s financial statements. 
MICHAEL WAREING
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee 83 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Nomination Committee
Sir David Reid – Chair of the Nomination Committee
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
I am pleased to report on how the Nomination Committee 
(‘Committee’) has continued to undertake its role during  
2015. Following the extensive work undertaken in 2014 to 
successfully fill the roles of the CEO and CFO, the Committee’s 
focus continued to be on succession planning and the review  
of the composition of the Board and the Committees. 
Following a rigorous selection process the Committee was 
pleased to recommend the appointment of Gill Rider to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 July 2015. Her 
successful career in both the Non-Executive and Executive 
worlds adds further valuable experience to our Board.
The Committee continues to ensure that the composition  
of the Board retains the right balance of skills, experience, 
industry and technical knowledge and diversity to provide the 
quality of leadership necessary to implement the strategy and 
achieve the strategic objectives necessary for the long-term 
success of the Company. 
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on  
the website at www.intertek.com. I will be available at the 
forthcoming AGM to answer any questions on the work  
of the Committee during the year.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE
Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Committee Members Number of meetings held in 2015
Eligible to attend Attendance
Sir David Reid
(Committee Chairman) 
4 4
Edward Astle
1
4 3
Christopher Knight
2
2 2
Dame Louise Makin
3
1 1
Michael Wareing 4 4
Mark Williams
4
2 2
1.  Edward Astle was unable to attend one Committee Meeting due to an  
unavoidable commitment. 
2. Christopher Knight retired from the Committee on 15 May 2015.
3. Dame Louise Makin was appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2015. 
4.  Mark Williams was appointed to the Committee on 15 May 2015.
The Group Company Secretary attends all meetings of the 
Committee. 
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
• Review the structure, size and composition of the Board  
and its Committees.
• Identify, review and nominate candidates to fill  
Board vacancies.
1
 
• Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience  
and diversity on the Board and Committees.
• Review the results of the performance evaluation process 
that relate to the composition of the Board and 
Committees. 
• Review the time commitment required from  
Non-Executive Directors.
1.  Neither the Chairman nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their own successor.
THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR
Composition of the Board, the Committees  
and appointments
In the first half of 2015 the Committee spent a significant 
amount of time considering the succession requirements of the 
Board and its Committees and subsequently overseeing the 
process which led to Gill Rider joining the Board as 
Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015. 
The Committee considered a number of factors including the 
experience, competency and personal qualities that would be 
required for this position. We also considered the current 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and 
whether the candidate would be able to allocate sufficient time 
to the Company to discharge their responsibilities. We worked 
with the external search firm Egon Zehnder to identify suitable 
candidates. We can confirm that they have no other connection 
to the Company apart from in relation to the 2015 Board 
evaluation and search consultancy services.
Gill Rider was deemed to be the most suitable candidate based 
on merit and her biography is available on page 57. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 84
Directors’ report
Nomination Committee continued
With the retirement of Christopher Knight at the 2015 AGM 
each of the principal Committees was left with a vacancy.  
This gave us the opportunity to appoint Mark Williams to the 
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee with 
effect from 15 May 2015. To ensure compliance with the Code, 
Mark acted as Interim Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
until Gill’s appointment. With effect from 1 July 2015, Alan 
Brown moved from the Remuneration Committee and became 
a member of the Audit & Risk Committee given his financial 
background and experience in the industry. Dame Louise Makin 
was also appointed to the Nomination Committee with effect 
from 1 December 2015.
Also during 2015, the Board, upon the recommendation  
of the Committee, took the decision to reappoint Dame Louise 
Makin and Lena Wilson CBE as Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company for a further three years. Where the reappointment 
of a member of the Committee is being discussed, they are 
precluded from any involvement in the discussions and the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director would chair  
the Committee when the reappointment of the Chairman  
is discussed. 
DIVERSITY ON THE BOARD
The Board continues to endorse the recommendations made by 
Lord Davies in his report issued in 2011 on ‘Women on Boards’ 
and our policy of diversity is available at www.intertek.com. 
The Committee is committed to achieving a Board which 
includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, 
gender, skills, background, regional and industry experience  
as well as other qualities. All of these factors are considered  
by the Committee in determining the composition of the Board  
as outlined on the previous page. With the appointment of  
Gill Rider during the year, the Company has exceeded Lord 
Davies’ recommendation of 25% gender diversity ratio and 
now has 30% women on the Board. Whilst the Board’s wish  
is to maintain at least 25% female representation at Board 
level, the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the 
Board to maintain the correct balance of skills, knowledge  
and experience remains paramount. 
An analysis of the diversity of the Board by gender as at 
31 December 2015 is provided below. Details of our total 
workforce by gender can be found in the Sustainability  
and CSR report on page 48. 
Board of Directors
30% 70%
Female
Male
 
SIR DAVID REID
Chair of the Nomination Committee 85 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Other statutory information
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 (‘Act’) and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 
(‘DTR’) of the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’), the following 
section describes the matters that are required for inclusion in 
the Directors’ report and were approved by the Board. Further 
details of matters required to be included in the Directors’ 
report that are incorporated by reference into this report  
are set out below.
DIRECTORS 
The Directors who held office during the year are set  
out below:
Director Position
Sir David Reid Chairman
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer
(retired 15 May 2015)
André Lacroix Chief Executive Officer 
(appointed 16 May 2015)
Edward Leigh Chief Financial Officer 
Edward Astle Non-Executive Director
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director
(retired 15 May 2015)
Dame Louise Makin Non-Executive Director
Gill Rider Non-Executive Director
(appointed 1 July 2015)
Michael Wareing Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Mark Williams Non-Executive Director
Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director
The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are 
set out on pages 56 and 57.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions 
relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors 
but, in accordance with best practice, all continuing Directors 
will stand for election or re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’).
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the 
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, 
the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of 
the Board and general meetings. Copies are available upon 
request from the Group Company Secretary and are available at 
the Company’s AGM. Further powers are granted by members 
in general meeting and those currently in place are set out in 
detail within the appropriate section of this report.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to 
attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 
directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, 
including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with 
the applicable statutory provisions. In accordance with the 
Articles of Association, the Company has executed deed polls 
of indemnity for the benefit of Directors of the Company.
These provisions which are deemed to be qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act), 
were in force during the financial year ended 31 December 
2015, for the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this 
report, remain in force in relation to certain losses and liabilities 
which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection with their 
duties, powers or office.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the 
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions 
of the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ 
Service Agreements and the Directors’ interests in the shares 
and share awards of the Company, in respect of which 
transactions are notifiable to the Company under Rule 3 of  
the DTR of the FCA are disclosed in the Remuneration report 
on pages 63 and 77.
DIRECTORS’ POWERS 
The Directors are responsible for the strategic management  
of the Company and their powers to do so are determined  
by the provisions of the Act and the Company’s Articles  
of Association. 
DIVIDEND
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 35.3p  
per ordinary share (2014: 33.1p) making a full year dividend  
of 52.3p per ordinary share (2014: 49.1p) which will, if 
approved at the AGM, be paid on 3 June 2016 to shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 20 May 2016. 
SHARE CAPITAL
The issued share capital of the Company and details of the 
movements in the Company’s share capital during the year  
are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
when declared, to receive the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the 
Company, to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights. A 
waiver of dividend exists in respect of 514,938 shares held by 
the Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘Trust’)  
as at 31 December 2015. Details of the shares purchased by the 
Trust during the year are outlined within note 15 to the financial 
statements. There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in the Company.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by 
the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced 
by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general 
meeting. The Directors’ powers are conferred on them by UK 
legislation and by the Company’s Articles of Association.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting 
rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect 
of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully 
paid. There are no arrangements known to the Company by 
which financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are 
held by a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are 
there any arrangements between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights known to the Company. All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange 
and may be traded through the CREST system. DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 86
Directors’ report
Other statutory information continued
ALLOTMENT OF SHARES
At the AGM held in 2015 the shareholders generally and 
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant 
securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal 
amount of issued share capital. It is the Directors’ intention  
to seek renewal of this authority in line with guidance issued  
by The Investment Association. The resolution will be set  
out in the Notice of AGM.
Also at the AGM in 2015 the Directors were empowered  
by the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of  
the Company’s issued share capital, for cash under section  
570 of the Act. It is intended that this authority be renewed,  
up to 10%, at the forthcoming AGM. This limit has increased 
from the authority given at last year’s AGM to reflect the  
Pre-Emption Group’s revised Statement of Principles issued  
in March 2015. It is the Company’s intention that the extra  
5% would be used only for the purpose of an acquisition  
or a specified capital investment. 
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company  
to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market 
purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year. 
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10%  
of the Company’s issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM. 
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied 
that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the 
ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and 
accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of 
shareholders. The Directors will also give careful consideration 
to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial 
position. Any shares purchased in this way may be held in 
treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company 
with flexibility in the management of its share capital. Where 
treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, they 
will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% 
limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a ten-
year period under our relevant share plan rules.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS – CHANGE OF CONTROL
The Company is not a party to significant agreements which 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 
following a takeover bid apart from a number of credit facilities 
with banks together with certain senior notes issued by the 
Company. The total amount owing under such credit facilities 
and senior note agreements as at 31 December 2015 is shown 
in note 14 to the financial statements. These agreements 
contain clauses such that, in the event of a change of control, 
the Company can offer to or must repay all such borrowings 
together with accrued interest, fees and other sums owing  
as required by the individual agreements.
The rules of the Company’s incentive plans contain clauses 
relating to a change of control resulting from a takeover and  
in such an event awards would vest subject to the satisfaction 
of any associated performance criteria.
MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES
Up to 23 February 2016, being the latest practicable date 
before the publication of this report, the following disclosures 
of major holdings of voting rights have been made (and have 
not been amended or withdrawn) to the Company pursuant to 
the requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA:
At date of notification
Shareholder
Number
of voting rights
% of voting
rights
BlackRock, Inc. 11,865,413 7.35
MFS Investment Management 9,547,182 5.92
Marathon Asset Management LLP 8,024,521 4.97
Mawer Investment Management Ltd 4,857,399 3.01
EMPLOYMENT
Information about the Group’s employees, employment of 
disabled persons and employment practices is contained  
within the Sustainability and CSR report on pages 48 and 49. 
Information on employee share schemes appears in note  
17 to the financial statements. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (‘GHG’)
Details regarding the Group’s Greenhouse Gas emissions  
are given in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 50.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
At the AGM in 2015 shareholders passed a resolution,  
on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to  
make donations to EU political organisations and to incur  
EU political expenditure (as such terms are defined in the Act) 
not exceeding £90,000. During the year the Group did not 
make any political donations (2014: £nil). It is the Company’s 
policy not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what  
are commonly regarded as donations to any political party. 
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, 
shareholders’ approval will again be sought to authorise  
the Group to make political donations and/or incur political 
expenditure (as such terms are defined in sections 362 to  
379 of the Act). Further information is contained in the  
Notice of AGM.  87 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BRANCHES
The Company, through various subsidiaries has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business 
operates. The list of subsidiaries is available on pages 129 to 132.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details about the Group’s use of financial instruments are outlined in note 14 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
Following the audit tender process, PwC have expressed their willingness to be appointed as auditors of the Company. Upon  
the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, resolutions to appoint them as auditors and to authorise the Directors  
to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with section 485(4) of the Act.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Notice of AGM, to be held on 25 May 2016, is available for download from the Company’s website at  
www.intertek.com/investors. The Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting and includes information  
concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he  
or she ought to have taken as a Director of the Company to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information  
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH LISTING RULE (‘LR’) 9.8.4 R
The Board has prepared a Strategic report (pages 4 to 51) which provides an overview of the development and performance  
of the Company’s business during the year ended 31 December 2015 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers 
likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.5 R(2) and DTR 4.1.8 R, the required content of the ‘Management Report’ can be 
found in the Strategic report and this Directors’ report (pages 52 to 88), including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 
incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R can be found in the following locations:
Topic Location
1. Amount of interest capitalised Not applicable
2.  Any information required by LR 9.2.18 R (Publication  
of unaudited financial information)
Not applicable
3. Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors’ Remuneration report (pages 63 to 77)
4. Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable
5. Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable
6. Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
7.  Information required by (6) above for any unlisted major  
subsidiary undertaking of the Company 
Not applicable
8. Company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
9. Any contracts of significance Other statutory information (page 86)
10. Any contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
11. Shareholder waivers of dividends Other statutory information (page 85)
12. Shareholder waivers of future dividends Other statutory information (page 85)
13. Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 88
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND  
THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.  
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Parent Company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ Remuneration report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN 
RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed on 
pages 56 and 57, confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
• the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the Company’s 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors’ report comprising pages 52 to 88 and the Group 
Strategic report comprising pages 4 to 51 have been approved 
by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
1 March 2016
Registered Office 
25 Savile Row 
London 
W1S 2ES
Registered Number: 04267576 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial statements
Contents 
90 Consolidated income statement
91  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
92  Consolidated statement of financial position
93 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
94  Consolidated statement of cash flows
95  Notes to the financial statements
133  Intertek Group plc – Company balance sheet
134  Intertek Group plc – Company statement of  
changes in equity
135 Notes to the Company financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
 Note
95 1 Significant accounting policies
97 2 Operating segments and presentation of results
99 3 Separately Disclosed Items
100 4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
101 5 Employees
101 6 Taxation
105 7 Earnings per ordinary share
105 8 Property, plant and equipment
107 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
111 10 Acquisitions
112 11 Trade and other receivables
113 12 Trade and other payables
113 13 Provisions
114 14 Borrowings and financial instruments
121 15 Capital and reserves
122 16 Employee benefits
126 17 Share schemes
127 18 Subsequent events
127 19 Capital management
128 20 Non-controlling interest
128 21 Related parties
128 22 Contingent liabilities
129 23 Principal Group Companies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 90
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 Disclosed 
Items * 
£m
Total
2015 
£m
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 Disclosed 
Items * 
£m
Total
2014 
£m
Revenue 2 2,166.3 – 2,166.3 2,093.3 – 2,093.3
Operating costs (1,822.9) (626.9) (2,449.8) (1,768.9) (47.8) (1,816.7)
Group operating profit/(loss) 2 343.4 (626.9) (283.5) 324.4 (47.8) 276.6
Finance income 14 1.0 – 1.0 1.8 – 1.8
Finance expense 14 (25.2) – (25.2) (26.0) (0.2) (26.2)
Net financing costs (24.2) – (24.2) (24.2) (0.2) (24.4)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 319.2 (626.9) (307.7) 300.2 (48.0) 252.2
Income tax expense 6 (77.5) 38.2 (39.3) (72.0) 10.2 (61.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year 2 241.7 (588.7) (347.0) 228.2 (37.8) 190.4
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 228.2 (588.7) (360.5) 214.1 (37.8) 176.3
 Non-controlling interest 20 13.5 – 13.5 14.1 – 14.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 241.7 (588.7) (347.0) 228.2 (37.8) 190.4
Earnings per share
**
Basic 7 (224.2)p 109.5p
Diluted 7 (224.2)p 108.8p
* See note 3.
** Earnings per share on the adjusted results is disclosed in note 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year 2 (347.0) 190.4
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes 16 (2.2) (12.9)
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 6 – (0.1)
Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (2.2) (13.0)
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 14 2.0 31.9
Net exchange loss on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 14 (33.1) (42.9)
Gain on fair value of cash flow hedges 14 – 0.2
Tax on items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 6 3.0 (7.8)
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (28.1) (18.6)
Total other comprehensive expense for the year (30.3) (31.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year (377.3) 158.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company (391.8) 144.0
 Non-controlling interest 20 14.5 14.8
Total comprehensive income for the year (377.3) 158.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 92
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2015 Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 365.3 363.3
Goodwill 9 471.1 779.9
Other intangible assets 9 160.4 174.9
Investments in associates 0.3 1.4
Deferred tax assets 6 42.7 24.6
Total non-current assets 1,039.8 1,344.1
Inventories 16.1 14.7
Trade and other receivables 11 583.5 526.5
Cash and cash equivalents 14 116.0 119.5
Current tax receivable 15.6 14.1
Total current assets 731.2 674.8
Total assets 1,771.0 2,018.9
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (96.7) (89.8)
Current taxes payable (52.6) (53.4)
Trade and other payables 12 (356.6) (301.8)
Provisions 13 (30.7) (23.4)
Total current liabilities (536.6) (468.4)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (794.7) (663.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (51.7) (35.2)
Net pension liabilities 16 (26.9) (25.3)
Other payables 12 (17.3) (16.1)
Provisions 13 (4.4) (4.0)
Total non-current liabilities (895.0) (743.8)
Total liabilities (1,431.6) (1,212.2)
Net assets 339.4 806.7
Equity
Share capital 15 1.6 1.6
Share premium 257.8 257.8
Other reserves (58.0) (25.9)
Retained earnings 110.2 547.1
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 311.6 780.6
Non-controlling interest 20 27.8 26.1
Total equity 339.4 806.7
The financial statements on pages 90 to 132 were approved by the Board on 1 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium 
£m
Other reserves
Retained
 earnings *
£m
Total 
before 
non-
controlling
 interest 
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
Other 
£m
At 1 January 2014 1.6 257.8 (20.6) 6.4 487.4 732.6 24.1 756.7
Total comprehensive income  
for the year
Profit – – – – 176.3 176.3 14.1 190.4
Other comprehensive income – – (11.7) – (20.6) (32.3) 0.7 (31.6)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – (11.7) – 155.7 144.0 14.8 158.8
Transactions with owners of the 
company recognised directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to the owners of the company
Dividends paid 15 – – – – (75.5) (75.5) (12.8) (88.3)
Purchase of own shares 15 – – – – (20.6) (20.6) – (20.6)
Tax paid on share awards vested** – – – – (6.8) (6.8) – (6.8)
Equity-settled transactions 17 – – – – 7.6 7.6 – 7.6
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 – – – – (0.7) (0.7) – (0.7)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to the owners of the company – – – – (96.0) (96.0) (12.8) (108.8)
At 31 December 2014 1.6 257.8 (32.3) 6.4 547.1 780.6 26.1 806.7
At 1 January 2015 1.6 257.8 (32.3) 6.4 547.1 780.6 26.1 806.7
Total comprehensive income  
for the year
(Loss)/profit – – – – (360.5) (360.5) 13.5 (347.0)
Other comprehensive income – – (32.1) – 0.8 (31.3) 1.0 (30.3)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – (32.1) – (359.7) (391.8) 14.5 (377.3)
Transactions with owners of the 
company recognised directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to the owners of the company
Dividends paid 15 – – – – (80.7) (80.7) (13.3) (94.0)
Purchase of non-controlling interest – – – – (0.7) (0.7) 0.5 (0.2)
Purchase of own shares 15 – – – – (5.2) (5.2) – (5.2)
Tax paid on share awards vested** 17 – – – – (3.0) (3.0) – (3.0)
Equity-settled transactions 17 – – – – 12.9 12.9 – 12.9
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 – – – – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Total contributions by and distributions 
to the owners of the company – – – – (77.2) (77.2) (12.8) (90.0)
At 31 December 2015 1.6 257.8 (64.4) 6.4 110.2 311.6 27.8 339.4
*  After £244.1m for goodwill written off to retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 in relation to subsidiaries acquired prior to 31 December 1997.  
This figure has not been restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
**  The tax paid on share awards vested is related to settlement of the tax obligation on behalf of employees by the Group via the sale of a portion of the equity-settled  
shares. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 94
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year 2 (347.0) 190.4
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 8 75.1 69.0
Amortisation of software 9 10.1 7.3
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 9 21.4 20.8
Impairment of goodwill and other assets 8,9 589.4 –
Equity-settled transactions 17 12.9 7.6
Net financing costs 14 24.2 24.4
Income tax expense 6 39.3 61.8
Loss on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 0.2 0.4
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and operating provisions 425.6 381.7
Change in inventories (1.0) (2.1)
Change in trade and other receivables (10.8) (2.6)
Change in trade and other payables 24.9 8.8
Change in provisions 6.4 1.9
Special contributions into pension schemes 16 (2.8) (0.9)
Cash generated from operations 442.3 386.8
Interest and other finance expense paid (26.4) (27.9)
Income taxes paid (70.8) (67.4)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 345.1 291.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and software 1.3 1.0
Interest received 1.0 1.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 (231.3) (40.2)
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 13 – (0.3)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 (0.3) –
Sale of associate 1.1 –
Acquisition of property, plant, equipment and software 8,9 (112.2) (109.5)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (340.4) (147.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of own shares 15 (5.2) (20.6)
Tax paid on share awards vested (3.0) (6.8)
Drawdown of borrowings 169.0 103.8
Repayment of borrowings (63.5) (129.5)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 20 (13.3) (12.8)
Equity dividends paid 15 (80.7) (75.5)
Net cash flow used in financing activities 3.3 (141.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 14 8.0 2.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 119.5 116.4
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14 (11.5) 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 116.0 119.5
The notes on pages 95 to 132 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Cash outflow relating to Separately Disclosed Items was £23.4m for year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £16.9m). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the financial statements
1 Significant accounting policies
BASIS OF PREPARATION
Accounting policies applicable to more than one section of the financial statements are shown below. Where accounting policies 
relate to a specific note in the financial statements, they are set out within that note, to provide readers of the financial statements 
with a more useful layout to the financial information presented.
Statement of compliance
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2015 consolidate those of the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and include the Group’s interest in associates. The Group financial statements have 
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(‘IFRSs’). The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its 
Group. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 133 to 137.
IFRS’s announced but not yet effective
The following IFRS’s have been announced but are not yet effective in the preparation of these financial statements.  
Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements, unless otherwise indicated:
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (effective 1 January 2016).
Annual Improvements to IFRS’s – 2012-2014 Cycle (effective 1 January 2016).
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers (effective 1 January 2018, not yet endorsed by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’)).
IFRS 16 Leases (effective 1 January 2019, not yet endorsed by the IASB) – management has not yet completed its analysis  
of this standard.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (not yet endorsed by the IASB) – management has not yet completed its analysis of this standard.
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as discussed in the relevant accounting policies.
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All information 
presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied consistently to all years presented.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2015 but do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Going concern
The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions. The Board has also 
reviewed the Group’s funding requirements and the available debt facilities. As a result of these reviews the Board remains 
satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position and believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully. In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described 
in note 14, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has power to direct the relevant activities, 
exposure to variable returns from the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of investor 
returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. 
For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary 
and the non-controlling interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position 
at the date of acquisition, is reflected directly in shareholders’ equity. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group 
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same  
way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 96
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
FOREIGN CURRENCY
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (for example cash, trade receivables, trade payables) 
denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation are generally recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction. For the policy on hedging of foreign currency transactions see note 14.
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated 
to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the 
year. Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve. 
They are released to the income statement upon disposal. For the policy on net investment hedging see note 14.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates:
Value of £1 
Assets and liabilities
Actual rates
Income and expenses
Cumulative average rates
31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 2015 2014
US dollar 1.48 1.55 1.53 1.65
Euro 1.36 1.28 1.38 1.24
Chinese renminbi 9.61 9.65 9.62 10.15
Hong Kong dollar 11.48 12.04 11.87 12.80
Australian dollar 2.03 1.91 2.04 1.83
USE OF JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements and estimates that 
affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
JUDGEMENTS
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a significant 
impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Income tax
The tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations 
is unclear, judgements are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid; see note 6.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with 
consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income; see note 6.
Basis of consolidation
Judgement is applied when determining if the Group controls a subsidiary or associate. In assessing control, the Group considers 
whether it has power over the investee to affect the amount of investor returns; see page 95 ‘Basis of consolidation’ policy.
Intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management determines whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately 
from goodwill, and the amounts at which to recognise those assets; see note 9.
Restructuring
In making a provision for restructuring, management has based its estimate of future costs on the specific circumstances of each 
local and regional restructuring plan, including estimated costs and timing of completion.
ESTIMATES
Discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have 
a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Claims
In making provision for claims, management bases its estimate on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and 
external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents; see note 13. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired. This requires an estimation of the future cash flows  
of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated; see note 9.
Contingent consideration
When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts 
payable on agreed post completion dates. These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed 
performance targets. At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business and 
estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due; see note 13.
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations
For material defined benefit plans, the actuarial valuation includes assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets,  
salary progression and mortality rates; see note 16.
Recoverability of trade receivables
Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses. This provision considers the past payment 
history and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid; see note 11.
Accounting policies relating to a specific note in the financial statements are set out within that note as follows: 
Note
Revenue 2
Separately Disclosed Items 3
Taxation 6
Property, plant and equipment 8
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9
Trade and other receivables 11
Trade and other payables 12
Provisions 13
Borrowings and financial instruments 14
Capital and reserves 15
Employee benefits 16
Share schemes 17
Non-controlling interest 20
2 Operating segments and presentation of results
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Revenue from services rendered on short-term projects is generally recognised in the income statement when the relevant service 
is completed, usually when the report of findings is issued.
On long-term projects the Group records transactions as sales on the basis of value of work done, with the corresponding amount 
being included in trade receivables if the customer has been invoiced or in accrued income if billing has yet to be completed.  
Long-term projects consist of two main types: a) time incurred is billed at agreed rates on a periodic basis, such as monthly; or b) 
staged payment invoicing occurs, requiring an assessment of percentage completion, based on services provided and revenue 
accrued accordingly. Expenses are recharged to clients where permitted by the contract.
Payments received in advance from customers are recognised in deferred income where services have not yet been rendered.
OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group is organised into business lines, which are the Group’s operating segments and are reported to the CEO, the chief 
operating decision maker. These operating segments are aggregated into the five divisions, which are the Group’s reportable 
segments based on similar nature of the products and services, and type of customer. The five divisions, each of which offer 
services to different industries and are managed separately, are: Consumer Goods; Commercial & Electrical; Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals; Commodities and Industry & Assurance. The costs of the corporate head office and other costs which  
are not controlled by the five divisions are allocated appropriately.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no significant seasonality in the Group’s operations.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
The performance of the segments is assessed based on adjusted operating profit which is stated before Separately Disclosed Items. 
A reconciliation to operating profit by division and Group profit for the year is included overleaf. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 98
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Principal activities are as follows:
Consumer Goods – the division is a market leading provider of services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines and retail 
industries. As a partner to retailers, manufacturers and distributors the Company offers expertise on quality issues ranging from 
restricted hazardous substances and sustainability, to supply chain security and legislation relating to environmental, ethical and 
trade security issues. Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance and hazardous substance 
testing. Our customers include the world’s leading retailers, their partners and suppliers.
Commercial & Electrical – Our global network of accredited facilities provides manufacturers and retailers with a comprehensive 
scope of safety, performance and quality testing and certification services. The division supports a wide range of industries 
including home appliances, consumer electronics, information and communication technology, transportation, lighting, medical, 
building products, industrial and renewable energy products. Our customers include the world’s leading brands and manufacturers 
of a wide range of consumer electrical and industrial products and components.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals – Serving a wide range of industries, including chemicals and refined products, pharmaceutical, 
healthcare and beauty, and automotive and aerospace, the division offers advanced laboratory measurement and expert 
consultancy related technical support services and sustainability solutions. It has an established track record of success in laboratory 
outsourcing with many large, internationally recognised companies. The division’s world leading technical experts also support 
internal technical development. Our customers include leading brands and suppliers of products and R&D to the pharma 
industries, makers of healthcare and beauty products, and a wide range of industrial and consumer-facing corporations who  
use our expertise to help them develop the materials and chemicals of the future.
Commodities – Provides independent cargo inspection, analytical assessment, calibration and related research and technical 
services to the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and biofuels industries. The division also provides services to governments  
and regulatory bodies to support trade activities that help the flow of goods across borders. Our customers are global and  
national commodities retailers, traders and storage companies, and government ministry clients in the Middle East, Africa  
and South America.
Industry & Assurance – Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, 
chemical and agricultural industries, the division provides a diverse range of services to help customers optimise their assets and 
meet global quality standards for their products. Our services provide clients with independent verification of the integrity of new 
assets being constructed, and existing assets being maintained, with key services that include technical inspection, asset integrity 
management, analytical testing, and consulting and training services. The division also provides quality and safety services to the 
Food and Agri sectors, certification services, second-party supplier auditing, sustainability data verification and process 
performance analysis. Our customers include the owners, operators and developers of new and existing industrial infrastructure, 
global food and hospitality brands and their suppliers, and the world’s agricultural trading companies and growers.
The results of these divisions for the year ended 31 December 2015 are shown below:
Year ended 31 December 2015 
Revenue
from
 external
 customers
£m
Depreciation
 and
 software
amortisation *
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 Disclosed
 Items 
£m
Operating
 profit/(loss)
£m
Consumer Goods 404.3 (11.9) 136.1 (6.3) 129.8
Commercial & Electrical 411.7 (25.2) 60.5 (10.2) 50.3
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 183.8 (5.0) 22.3 (2.8) 19.5
Commodities 554.8 (20.5) 79.1 (6.4) 72.7
Industry & Assurance 611.7 (13.4) 45.4 (601.2) (555.8)
Total 2,166.3 (76.0) 343.4 (626.9) (283.5)
Group operating profit/(loss) 343.4 (626.9) (283.5)
Net financing costs (24.2) – (24.2)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 319.2 (626.9) (307.7)
Income tax expense (77.5) 38.2 (39.3)
Profit/(loss) for the year 241.7 (588.7) (347.0)
* Depreciation and software amortisation of £85.2m (2014: £76.3m) includes unallocated charges of £9.2m (2014: £6.6m). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2014
Revenue
from
 external
 customers
£m
Depreciation
 and
 software
amortisation *
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 Disclosed
 Items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Consumer Goods 375.3 (11.3) 124.8 (2.4) 122.4
Commercial & Electrical 359.6 (21.4) 51.0 (5.6) 45.4
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 173.1 (4.9) 18.6 (6.9) 11.7
Commodities 542.4 (21.7) 65.5 (10.5) 55.0
Industry & Assurance 642.9 (10.4) 64.5 (22.4) 42.1
Total 2,093.3 (69.7) 324.4 (47.8) 276.6
Group operating profit 324.4 (47.8) 276.6
Net financing costs (24.2) (0.2) (24.4)
Profit before income tax 300.2 (48.0) 252.2
Income tax expense (72.0) 10.2 (61.8)
Profit for the year 228.2 (37.8) 190.4
GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS
Although the Group is managed through a divisional structure, which operates on a global basis, under the requirements of IFRS 8 
the Group must disclose any specific countries that are important to the Group’s performance. The Group considers the following 
to be the material countries in which it operates; China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating 
that revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue from external 
customers Non-current assets
 2015
£m
 2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
China (including Hong Kong) 422.6 389.6 51.0 48.9
Other 358.6 341.6 93.3 121.3
Total Asia Pacific 781.2 731.2 144.3 170.2
United States 609.1 541.5 552.8 590.3
Other 154.9 164.9 53.0 36.8
Total Americas 764.0 706.4 605.8 627.1
United Kingdom 171.7 179.9 131.9 384.5
Other 449.4 475.8 132.3 151.4
Total Europe, Middle East and Africa 621.1 655.7 264.2 535.9
Unallocated – – 25.5 10.9
Total 2,166.3 2,093.3 1,039.8 1,344.1
MAJOR CUSTOMERS
No revenue from any individual customer exceeded 10% of total Group revenue in 2014 or 2015.
3 Separately Disclosed Items
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Adjusted results
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed 
separately on the face of the income statement.
Separately Disclosed Items are items which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from 
the adjusted result to provide readers with a clear and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its 
operating divisions.
When applicable, these items include amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit 
or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost of any 
fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity to the 
income statement and unrealised gains/losses on financial assets/liabilities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 100
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
3 Separately Disclosed Items (continued)
SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS
The Separately Disclosed Items are described in the table below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating costs:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (a) (21.4) (20.8)
Acquisition costs (b) (5.8) (3.5)
Restructuring costs (c) (6.7) (23.5)
Impairment of goodwill and other assets (d) (589.4) –
Material claims and settlements (e) (3.6) –
Total operating costs (626.9) (47.8)
Net financing costs – (0.2)
Total before income tax (626.9) (48.0)
Income tax credit on Separately Disclosed Items 38.2 10.2
Total (588.7) (37.8)
(a)  Of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles in the current year, £13.4m (2014: £13.3m) relates to the customer contracts 
and customer relationships acquired with the purchase of Moody International Limited (‘Moody’) in 2011.
(b)  Acquisition costs comprise £5.2m (2014: £1.3m) for transaction costs in respect of current year acquisitions, and £0.6m  
in respect of prior years’ acquisitions (2014: £2.2m).
(c)  Restructuring costs relate to asset write-offs and staff redundancies in certain regions in which the Group operates.
(d)  Impairment of goodwill and other assets of £589.4m (2014: £nil) comprises £577.3m for the Industry Services CGU (consisting 
of £481.4m relating to goodwill, £60.3m relating to the customer contracts and customer relationships and £35.6m relating to 
property, plant & equipment) and £12.1m in respect of computer software.
(e)  Material claims and settlements relate to a commercial claim that is separately disclosable due to its nature.
4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
An analysis of operating costs by nature is outlined below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employee costs 956.2 921.5
Depreciation and software amortisation 85.2 76.3
Impairment of goodwill and other assets 589.4 –
Other expenses 819.0 818.9
Total 2,449.8 1,816.7
Certain expenses are outlined below, including fees paid to the auditors of the Group: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses:
Property rentals 65.6 59.2
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment 17.1 15.2
Depreciation and software amortisation 85.2 76.3
Impairment of goodwill and other assets 589.4 –
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.2 0.4
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Audit of these financial statements 0.5 0.4
Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: 
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.0 1.9
 Total audit fees payable pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.3
 Taxation compliance services 0.3 0.3
 Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1
 Other 0.2 0.2
Total 3.1 2.9
The auditors and their associates were paid £11,000 (2014: £16,000) in respect of the audit of Group pension schemes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 Employees
Total employee costs are shown below: 
Employee costs 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 814.3 785.0
Equity-settled transactions 12.9 7.6
Social security costs 89.4 91.8
Pension costs (note 16) 39.6 37.1
Total employee costs 956.2 921.5
Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled transactions are set out in notes 16 and 17 respectively. 
Average number of employees by division 2015 2014
Consumer Goods 10,898 10,789
Commercial & Electrical 5,812 5,442
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 1,770 1,745
Commodities 9,879 10,252
Industry & Assurance 10,305 9,690
Central 271 244
Total average number for the year ended 31 December 38,935 38,162
Total actual number at 31 December 41,434 38,407
The total remuneration of the Directors is shown below: 
Directors’ emoluments 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Directors’ remuneration 4.6 2.9
Amounts charged under the long-term incentive scheme – 0.4
Company contributions to the defined contribution schemes 0.2 0.3
Total Directors’ emoluments 4.8 3.6
6 Taxation
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the same primary statement as the 
accounting transaction to which it relates.
Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become  
due. Amounts are accrued based on management’s interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. Where  
the outcome of discussions with tax authorities is different from the amount initially recorded, this difference will impact the  
tax provisions in the period the determination is made.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for:
•  initial recognition of goodwill;
• the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit; and
• differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint ventures, the reversal of which 
is under the control of the Group and where it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, for the periods 
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset current tax liabilities and assets and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable 
entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and 
liabilities will be realised simultaneously. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 102
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
6 Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax (continued)
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary difference can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay  
the related dividend.
TAX EXPENSE
The Group operates across many different tax jurisdictions. Income and profits are earned and taxed in the individual countries  
in which they occur.
The income tax expense for the loss before tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 is £39.3m (2014: £61.8m). The Group’s 
consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2015 is (12.8)% (2014: 24.5%).
The income tax expense for the adjusted profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 is £77.5m (2014: £72.0m).  
The Group’s adjusted consolidated effective tax rate for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 is 24.3% (2014: 24.0%).
Differences between the consolidated effective tax rate of (12.8)% and notional statutory UK rate of 20.25% include, but are  
not limited to; the mix of profits, the effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, non-deductible expenses, the effect of utilised  
tax losses and under/over provisions in previous periods.
The Group receives tax incentives in certain jurisdictions, resulting in a lower tax charge to the income statement. Without these 
incentives the adjusted effective tax rate would be 26.7% (2014: 27.1%). There is no guarantee that these reduced rates will 
continue to be applicable in future years (see note 22).
Following the acquisition of the US businesses, PSI and the MT Group (see note 10), our expectation is that our effective tax rate 
for the forthcoming year is likely to increase. 
Tax charge
The total income tax charge, comprising the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax, recognised in the income 
statement is analysed as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax charge for the period 72.6 65.1
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities (2.6) –
Current tax 70.0 65.1
Deferred tax movement related to current year (35.1) (6.3)
Deferred tax movement related to prior year 4.4 3.0
Deferred tax movement (30.7) (3.3)
Total tax in income statement 39.3 61.8
Tax on adjusted result 77.5 72.0
Tax on Separately Disclosed Items (38.2) (10.2)
Total tax in income statement 39.3 61.8
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The following table provides a reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation tax rate to the effective tax rate of the Group on 
profit before taxation.
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (307.7) 252.2
Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) (62.3) 54.2
Differences in overseas tax rates (2.6) (5.6)
Tax on dividends 7.0 7.5
Non-deductible expenses 3.5 6.8
Tax exempt income (3.9) (6.7)
Impairment losses with no tax effect 97.3 –
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax 0.5 4.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 3.0
Other* (2.0) (1.4)
Total tax in income statement 39.3 61.8
* The Other category contains R&D tax credits £0.9m (2014: £nil). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 Taxation (continued)
Reconciliation of effective tax rate (continued)
During 2015, the UK Government announced a phased reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 20% to 18% over  
a period of three years from 1 April 2017. The reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18%  
from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in October 2015.
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’)
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax 
recognised on items recorded in other comprehensive income is shown below:
Before tax
2015
£m
Tax credit
2015
£m
Net of tax
2015
£m
Before tax
2014
£m
Tax charge
2014
£m
Net of tax
2014
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of 
foreign operations 2.0 – 2.0 31.9 – 31.9
Net exchange (loss)/gain on hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations (33.1) – (33.1) (42.9) – (42.9)
Gain on fair value of cash flow hedges – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension 
schemes (2.2) – (2.2) (12.9) (0.1) (13.0)
Deferred tax assets recognised in other 
comprehensive income – 3.0 3.0 – (7.8) (7.8)
Total other comprehensive income for the year (33.3) 3.0 (30.3) (23.7) (7.9) (31.6)
Income tax recognised directly in equity
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax on items 
recognised in equity is shown below:
Before tax
2015
£m
Tax charge
2015
£m
Net of tax
2015
£m
Before tax
2014
£m
Tax credit
2014
£m
Net of tax
2014
£m
Equity-settled transactions 12.9 (0.5) 12.4 7.6 (0.7) 6.9
DEFERRED TAX
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:  
Assets
2015
£m
Assets
2014
£m
Liabilities 
2015
£m
Liabilities 
2014
£m
Net
2015
£m
Net
2014
£m
Intangible assets 0.4 0.6 (67.6) (51.2) (67.2) (50.6)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 19.1 5.7 (5.6) (3.3) 13.5 2.4
Pensions 1.3 1.0 – – 1.3 1.0
Equity-settled transactions 4.3 4.6 – – 4.3 4.6
Provisions and other temporary differences 29.2 32.2 (1.9) (3.7) 27.3 28.5
Tax value of losses 11.8 3.5 – – 11.8 3.5
Total 66.1 47.6 (75.1) (58.2) (9.0) (10.6)
As shown on balance sheet:
Deferred tax assets
* 42.7 24.6
Deferred tax liabilities
* (51.7) (35.2)
Total (9.0) (10.6)
*  The deferred tax by category shown above is not netted off within companies or jurisdictions. The balance sheet shows the net position within companies 
or jurisdictions. The difference between the two asset and liability totals is £23.4m, but the net liability of £9.0m is the same in both cases. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 104
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
6 Taxation (continued)
Movements in deferred tax temporary differences during the year
The movement in the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
1 January 
2015
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI
£m
31 December
 2015
£m
Intangible assets (50.6) (3.0) (26.2) 12.6 – (67.2)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.4 (0.7) – 11.8 – 13.5
Pensions 1.0 – – 0.3 – 1.3
Equity-settled transactions 4.6 0.1 – (0.8) 0.4 4.3
Provisions and other temporary differences 28.5 0.6 – (1.8) – 27.3
Tax value of losses 3.5 (0.3) – 8.6 – 11.8
Total (10.6) (3.3) (26.2) 30.7 0.4 (9.0)
1 January 
2014
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI
£m
31 December
 2014
£m
Intangible assets (51.4) (2.2) (0.1) 3.3 (0.2) (50.6)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 4.3 0.9 – (2.8) – 2.4
Pensions 0.9 – – 0.2 (0.1) 1.0
Equity-settled transactions 6.8 – – (0.2) (2.0) 4.6
Provisions and other temporary differences 23.7 1.4 – 3.4 – 28.5
Tax value of losses 9.9 (0.4) – (0.6) (5.4) 3.5
Total (5.8) (0.3) (0.1) 3.3 (7.7) (10.6)
UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items shown below. The numbers shown are the gross temporary 
differences, and to calculate the potential deferred tax asset it is necessary to multiply these by the tax rates in each case:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 46.4 24.2
Pensions 18.4 19.2
Intangibles 22.8 –
Equity-settled transactions – 0.5
Provisions and other temporary differences 12.1 21.9
Tax losses 71.9 67.4
Total 171.6 133.2
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be 
available in certain jurisdictions against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of £206.1m (2014: £214.6m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings. 
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group  
and there is no intention to either repatriate from, or sell, the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. 
Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease 
earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations. Basic loss per share in 2015 is therefore equal to diluted 
loss per share.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has also been 
calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and other 
Separately Disclosed Items. It has been calculated to allow shareholders a better understanding of the trading performance of the 
Group. Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (360.5) 176.3
Separately Disclosed Items after tax (note 3) 588.7 37.8
Adjusted earnings 228.2 214.1
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 160.8 161.0
Potentially dilutive share awards 1.4 1.1
Diluted weighted average number of shares 162.2 162.1
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (224.2)p 109.5p
Potentially dilutive share awards – (0.7)p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (224.2)p 108.8p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 141.9p 133.0p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.2)p (0.9)p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 140.7p 132.1p
8 Property, plant and equipment
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Where  
land and buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the 
buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases
These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property,  
plant and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the expected lease term and their useful lives. Land  
is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years
Short leasehold buildings Term of lease 
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of assets are reassessed at each reporting date.
Impairment
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated to determine the level of any impairment. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 106
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The property, plant and equipment employed by the business is analysed below: 
Land and
buildings
£m
Fixtures,
fittings,
plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 67.7 680.1 747.8
Exchange adjustments (0.7) 12.5 11.8
Additions 3.9 86.1 90.0
Impairments – (0.7) (0.7)
Disposals (0.2) (13.4) (13.6)
Transfer to assets held for resale – (1.2) (1.2)
Businesses acquired (note 10) – 3.4 3.4
At 31 December 2014 70.7 766.8 837.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 13.9 396.8 410.7
Exchange adjustments (0.3) 7.9 7.6
Charge for the year 2.8 66.2 69.0
Impairments – (0.4) (0.4)
Disposals (0.1) (12.1) (12.2)
Transfer to assets held for resale – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 2014 16.3 457.9 474.2
Net book value at 31 December 2014 54.4 308.9 363.3
Cost
At 1 January 2015 70.7 766.8 837.5
Exchange adjustments 3.2 (7.2) (4.0)
Additions 2.1 93.3 95.4
Disposals (0.4) (14.6) (15.0)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 6.8 13.9 20.7
At 31 December 2015 82.4 852.2 934.6
Depreciation
At 1 January 2015 16.3 457.9 474.2
Exchange adjustments 0.5 (2.6) (2.1)
Charge for the year 2.8 72.3 75.1
Impairments (note 9) 1.3 34.3 35.6
Disposals (0.1) (13.4) (13.5)
At 31 December 2015 20.8 548.5 569.3
Net book value at 31 December 2015 61.6 303.7 365.3
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment include assets in the course of construction of £34.9m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £27.3m), 
mainly comprising laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated until they are available for use.
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Freehold 55.5 47.7
Long leasehold 2.3 2.3
Short leasehold 3.8 4.4
Total 61.6 54.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Commitments
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected term  
of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over 
the term of the lease.
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
Land and
 buildings
2015
£m
Other
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Land and
 buildings
2014
£m
Other
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Within one year 51.5 5.0 56.5 50.8 7.9 58.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 84.5 5.0 89.5 85.3 5.5 90.8
Over five years 62.6 – 62.6 47.8 – 47.8
Total 198.6 10.0 208.6 183.9 13.4 197.3
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements 
which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the financial statements amounted to £4.4m (2014: £6.2m).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and  
the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) 
and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
From 1 January 2010, the Group has prospectively applied IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (revised 2008)’. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which  
control is obtained.
The Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred less the net recognised amount (generally fair 
value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in Separately Disclosed Items.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised 
in profit or loss.
If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be 
established provisionally, then these values are used. Adjustments to the fair values can be made within 12 months of the 
acquisition date and are taken as adjustments to goodwill.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition 
over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree. 
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection 
with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 
1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount 
recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 108
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Other intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible 
assets should be recognised separately from goodwill. If, based on management’s judgement, such an asset is identified, then it is 
valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. 
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of 
whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives 
are as follows:
Computer software Up to 7 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years 
Know-how 
Trade names
Up to 5 years
Up to 5 years 
Licences Contractual life 
Covenants not to compete Contractual life
Impairment
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment and when circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the amount carried in the statement of financial position may be less than its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each asset or group of assets, i.e. cash generating unit, to which the goodwill relates. A CGU represents an  
asset grouping at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in 
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The estimation process is complex due to the inherent 
risks and uncertainties and if different estimates were used this could materially change the projected value of the cash flows. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
109 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
INTANGIBLES
The intangibles employed by the business are analysed below:
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Licences
£m
Other
 acquisition
 intangibles
£m
Computer
 software
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 750.4 220.8 7.9 16.7 78.2 323.6
Exchange adjustments 17.5 3.9 0.2 0.4 5.4 9.9
Additions – – – – 19.5 19.5
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 24.9 7.6 – – – 7.6
At 31 December 2014 792.8 232.3 8.1 17.1 103.0 360.5
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2014 13.6 101.8 7.2 15.5 28.6 153.1
Exchange adjustments (0.7) 1.9 0.3 0.4 1.9 4.5
Charge for the year – 20.3 0.2 0.3 7.3 28.1
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 12.9 124.0 7.7 16.2 37.7 185.6
Net book value at 31 December 2014 779.9 108.3 0.4 0.9 65.3 174.9
Cost
At 1 January 2015 792.8 232.3 8.1 17.1 103.0 360.5
Exchange adjustments 14.6 3.7 0.2 0.4 4.9 9.2
Additions – – – – 16.8 16.8
Disposal – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 157.9 59.8 – 5.7 1.4 66.9
At 31 December 2015 965.3 295.8 8.3 23.2 126.0 453.3
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2015 12.9 124.0 7.7 16.2 37.7 185.6
Exchange adjustments (0.1) 1.4 0.2 0.4 1.5 3.5
Charge for the year – 21.1 0.2 0.1 10.1 31.5
Disposal – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Impairment 481.4 60.3 – – 12.1 72.4
At 31 December 2015 494.2 206.8 8.1 16.7 61.3 292.9
Net book value at 31 December 2015 471.1 89.0 0.2 6.5 64.7 160.4
In accordance with accounting standards, an impairment of £577.3m against the Industry Services CGU has been allocated across 
the different asset classes of £481.4m to goodwill, £60.3m to intangible assets and £35.6m relating to property, plant and 
equipment (see note 8).
Other intangible assets 
The other acquisition intangibles of £6.5m (2014: £0.9m) consist of covenants not to compete, know-how, trade names and 
guaranteed income. The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is seven years (2014: six years).
Computer software net book value of £64.7m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £65.3m) includes software in construction  
of £30.5m (2014: £35.5m).
Impairment review
Other intangible assets were reviewed for impairment in addition to the goodwill impairment review, which included a strategic 
review of IT and the systems landscape for potential obsolescence. As a result, an impairment of £12.1m of IT assets related to 
computer software has been recorded in the year.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to reportable segments as follows: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Commercial & Electrical 141.3 –
Industry & Assurance 16.6 24.9
At 31 December 157.9 24.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 110
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is as follows, which is also used for the disclosure of the Group’s 
impairment review:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Industry Services 13.2 467.4
Exploration & Production 3.5 3.6
Business Assurance 6.2 3.1
Food & Agriculture Services 17.8 17.7
Cargo & Analytical Assessment 17.2 18.5
Government & Trade Services 0.2 0.2
Minerals 45.3 46.9
Softlines 3.4 3.5
Hardlines 6.5 7.5
Product Intelligence 2.4 2.6
Electrical & Wireless 46.3 43.0
Transportation Technologies 12.2 13.0
Building Products 194.5 52.4
Chemicals & Pharma/Health, Environmental & Regulatory 102.4 100.5
Net book value at 31 December* 471.1 779.9
*   All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end 
of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment review
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each operating segment 
or CGU. The calculation is based on projecting future cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to incorporate 
expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions include the rate of revenue and profit growth within each of the territories and business lines in which the 
Group operates. These are based on the Group’s approved budget and five year Strategic Plan. The long-term growth rate is also 
key since it is used in the perpetuity calculations. Finally, the discount rate used to bring the cash flow back to a present value 
varies depending on the location of the operation and the nature of the operations. The estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money  
and the risks specific to the asset.
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to long-term growth rates and discount rates. Long-term growth rates predict 
growth beyond the Group’s planning cycle, and range from 1.7% to 3.5% (2014: 2.5% to 4.5%). The higher long-term  
growth rates reflect the weighting of a CGU’s operations within China. The discount rate for each CGU reflects the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU. Discount rates ranged from 8.4% to 10.3%  
(2014: 9.1% to 12.7%).
Sensitivity analysis
None of the reasonable downside sensitivity scenarios on key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of each CGU  
to exceed its recoverable amount, with the exception of Industry Services. The sensitivities modelled by management include:
i)  Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2017 to 2020 from the 2016 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing  
with base assumptions.
ii)  Assuming zero growth in operating profit margins in 2016 to 2020 with revenues increasing per base assumptions. 
iii) Assuming an increase in the discount rates used by 1%.
Management considers that the likelihood of any or all of the above scenarios occurring is low. 
Impairment
At 31 December 2015, before impairment testing, goodwill of £494.6m was allocated to the Industry Services CGU. The oil and 
gas sector in which this CGU operates has experienced a significant downturn with a material reduction in capital and operating 
expenditure by its main customers. As a result, the Group revised its cash flow forecasts for Industry Services and has therefore 
reduced the CGU value to its recoverable amount. This has resulted in an impairment loss against goodwill of £481.4m, against 
intangible assets of £60.3m and against property, plant and equipment of £35.6m, in total £577.3m. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Acquisitions
ACQUISITIONS IN 2015
On 23 November 2015, the Group completed the significant acquisition of Professional Service Industries, Inc., for a purchase price 
of £220.0m (£215.4m net of cash acquired), generating goodwill of £146.1m. PSI is a provider of industry-leading testing and 
assurance services to the commercial and civil construction markets and non-destructive testing for onshore pipelines in the USA.
On 3 February 2015, the Group acquired Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Ltd, an Australian-based business providing non-
destructive testing and associated services to the power generation, construction, oil, gas and mining industries. On 10 September 
2015, the Group acquired Dansk Institut for Certificering A/S, a Danish company that provides business assurance services to a 
wide range of industries including Hospitality, Transport and Food. On 8 October 2015, the Group acquired MT Group LLC and 
Materials Testing Lab, Inc, (together ‘MT’), a leading provider in the US of materials testing and inspection services to the building 
industry. Cash consideration for these three acquisitions was £17.2m (£15.9m net of cash acquired) generating goodwill of £11.8m.
Provisional details of the net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out in the following tables. These analyses are 
provisional and amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of acquisition.
2015
Professional Service Industries, Inc. 
Total
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Provisional
 fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 15.9 3.8 19.7
Goodwill 108.1 38.0 146.1
Other intangible assets 66.1 0.1 66.2
Trade and other receivables 50.7 (0.8) 49.9
Trade and other payables (24.6) (2.7) (27.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (13.2) (13.2)
Deferred tax liabilities (26.8) 0.8 (26.0)
Net assets acquired 189.4 26.0 215.4
Cash outflow (net of cash and debt assumed) 215.4
Contingent consideration –
Total consideration 215.4
2015 2014
Other acquisitions 
Total
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Provisional
 fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.0 – 1.0 3.3 0.1 3.4
Goodwill – 11.8 11.8 – 24.9 24.9
Other intangible assets – 0.7 0.7 – 7.6 7.6
Inventories 0.2 – 0.2 0.3 (0.3) –
Trade and other receivables 4.8 – 4.8 12.3 (3.5) 8.8
Trade and other payables (2.4) – (2.4) (3.4) (1.0) (4.4)
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.1) (0.1)
Net assets acquired 3.6 12.3 15.9 12.5 27.7 40.2
Cash outflow (net of cash and debt assumed) 15.9 40.2
Contingent consideration – –
Total consideration 15.9 40.2
Goodwill and intangible assets
The total goodwill arising on acquisitions made during 2015 was £157.9m. There was no change to goodwill in respect of prior 
years’ acquisitions. The goodwill arising represents the value of the assembled workforce and the benefits the Company expects  
to gain from increasing its presence in the relevant sectors in which the acquired businesses operate. The intangible assets of 
£66.9m primarily represent the value placed on customer relationships and the deferred tax thereon was £26.2m.
Consideration paid
The total cash consideration paid for the acquisitions in the year was £237.2m (2014: £43.1m). Including cash and debt acquired  
of £5.9m, the purchase price was £231.3m.
Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits
In total acquisitions made during 2015 contributed revenues of £26.8m and a net profit after tax of £2.0m from their respective 
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2015. The Group revenue and loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 would 
have been £2,377.0m and £330.5m respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2015. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 112
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
11 Trade and other receivables
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts 
considered recoverable (amortised cost).
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. Based on 
historic default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific 
circumstances such as the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable.
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable, and 25%  
of balances six to 12 months old. Where recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific trade receivable until such 
time as the Group believes the amount to be irrecoverable. At that time the trade receivable is written off.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables are analysed below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 413.7 368.1
Other receivables 57.9 60.0
Prepayments and accrued income 111.8 97.7
Fixed assets held for resale 0.1 0.7
Total trade and other receivables 583.5 526.5
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £20.0m (2014: £18.3m) and are all expected to be 
recovered within 12 months. Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of operating costs was £6.9m (2014: £8.4m).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their 
short-term duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number 
of customers who are internationally dispersed.
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Under 3 months 342.0 302.4
Between 3 and 6 months 50.1 46.9
Between 6 and 12 months 26.5 24.5
Over 12 months 15.1 12.6
Gross trade receivables 433.7 386.4
Allowance for impairment (20.0) (18.3)
Trade receivables, net of allowance 413.7 368.1
Included in trade receivables under three months of £342.0m (2014: £302.4m) are trade receivables of £185.1m (2014: £164.7m) 
which are not yet due for payment under the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 18.3 16.6
Exchange differences (0.7) 0.3
Acquisitions 1.6 2.0
Cash recovered 0.6 (0.4)
Impairment loss recognised 6.9 4.6
Receivables written off (6.7) (4.8)
At 31 December 20.0 18.3
There were no material individual impairments of trade receivables. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12 Trade and other payables
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier. The carrying value of trade payables  
is considered approximate to fair value.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade and other payables are analysed below:
Current
2015
£m
Current
2014
£m
Non-current
2015
£m
Non-current
2014
£m
Trade payables 64.7 42.5 – –
Other payables 41.6 33.0 9.5 9.1
Accruals and deferred income 250.3 226.3 7.8 7.0
Total trade and other payables 356.6 301.8 17.3 16.1
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 14.
13 Provisions
ACCOUNTING POLICY
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated 
reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
PROVISIONS
Contingent
consideration
£m
Claims
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 4.0 6.8 16.6 27.4
Exchange adjustments (0.3) 0.2 (0.2) (0.3)
Provided in the year: – 0.9 10.5 11.4
 in respect of current year acquisitions – 13.2 – 13.2
 in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.7 – – 0.7
Released during the year – – – –
Utilised during the year – (2.6) (14.7) (17.3)
At 31 December 2015 4.4 18.5 12.2 35.1
Included in:
Current liabilities – 18.5 12.2 30.7
Non-current liabilities 4.4 – – 4.4
At 31 December 2015 4.4 18.5 12.2 35.1
The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome of such litigation 
and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings. Based on information 
currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is 
unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The provision for claims of £18.5m (2014: £6.8m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified 
claims from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outflow relating 
to the provisions is uncertain, but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out  
in note 22.
The other provision of £12.2m (2014: £16.6m) includes restructuring provisions. The timing of the cash outflow is uncertain,  
but is likely to be within one year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 114
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Borrowings and financial instruments
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Accounting policy
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign 
exchange gains or losses, interest income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities and gains and losses on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they accrue 
using the effective interest rate method.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables. Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses (including bad debt provision).
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form  
an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose  
of the statement of cash flows. Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, to hedge 
economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised 
in profit or loss when incurred. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value at each period end is recognised immediately  
in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value  
of the difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract.
Hedging
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary 
asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income 
statement in the same caption as the foreign exchange on the related item.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that  
is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion  
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group has external borrowings denominated in foreign currencies which are used to hedge the net investment  
in its foreign operations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Impairment
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. 
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect 
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs are shown below:
Recognised in income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 1.0 1.8
Total finance income 1.0 1.8
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings (26.2) (26.7)
Net pension interest cost (note 16) (0.8) (0.5)
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities 3.1 2.5
Facility fees and other
* (1.3) (1.5)
Total finance expense* (25.2) (26.2)
Net financing costs* (24.2) (24.4)
* Includes £nil (2014: £0.2m) relating to SDIs.
Recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 2.0 31.9
Net exchange loss on hedges of net investment in foreign operations (33.1) (42.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – (0.1)
Gain on fair value of cash flow hedges – 0.3
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (31.1) (10.8)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (32.1) (11.5)
Non-controlling interest 1.0 0.7
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (31.1) (10.8)
Recognised in:
Translation reserve and non-controlling interest (31.1) (11.0)
Retained earnings – 0.2
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (31.1) (10.8) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 116
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Analysis of net debt
The components of net debt are outlined below:
1 January 
2015
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Cash 119.5 8.0 (11.5) 116.0
Borrowings:
Revolving credit facility US$800m 2020 (124.1) (123.9) (5.8) (253.8)
Bilateral term loan facilities US$100m 2017 (25.8) (39.8) (1.9) (67.5)
Bilateral term loan facilities US$60m 2016 (38.6) – (1.8) (40.4)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (64.4) 63.5 0.9 –
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (48.3) – (2.3) (50.6)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (64.4) – (3.0) (67.4)
Senior notes US$20m 2019 (12.9) – (0.6) (13.5)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (96.7) – (4.5) (101.2)
Senior notes US$15m 2021 (9.7) – (0.4) (10.1)
Senior notes US$140m 2022 (90.2) – (4.3) (94.5)
Senior notes US$40m 2023 (25.8) – (1.2) (27.0)
Senior notes US$125m 2024 (80.6) – (3.8) (84.4)
Senior notes US$40m 2025 (25.8) – (1.2) (27.0)
Senior notes US$75m 2026 (48.3) – (2.3) (50.6)
Other
* 2.6 (6.2) 0.2 (3.4)
Total borrowings (753.0) (106.4) (32.0) (891.4)
Total net debt (633.5) (98.4) (43.5) (775.4)
* Other borrowings of £6.2m (2014: £0.7m) and facility fees.
1 January 
2014
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2014
£m
Cash 116.4 2.9 0.2 119.5
Borrowings:
Revolving credit facility US$800m 2019 (191.7) 78.2 (10.6) (124.1)
Bilateral multi-currency facility 2016 (37.3) 36.1 1.2 –
Bilateral term loan facilities US$40m 2015 (12.1) (12.1) (1.6) (25.8)
Bilateral term loan facilities US$60m 2016 (12.1) (24.1) (2.4) (38.6)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (15.1) 15.1 – –
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (60.7) – (3.7) (64.4)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (45.5) – (2.8) (48.3)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (60.7) – (3.7) (64.4)
Senior notes US$20m 2019 (12.1) – (0.8) (12.9)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (91.0) – (5.7) (96.7)
Senior notes US$15m 2021 – (8.7) (1.0) (9.7)
Senior notes US$140m 2022 (84.9) – (5.3) (90.2)
Senior notes US$40m 2023 (24.3) – (1.5) (25.8)
Senior notes US$125m 2024 (63.7) (11.7) (5.2) (80.6)
Senior notes US$40m 2025 (24.3) – (1.5) (25.8)
Senior notes US$75m 2026 – (47.1) (1.2) (48.3)
Other
* 0.9 1.8 (0.1) 2.6
Total borrowings (734.6) 27.5 (45.9) (753.0)
Total net debt (618.2) 30.4 (45.7) (633.5) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Borrowings
Borrowings are split into current and non-current as outlined below:
Current
2015
£m
Current
2014
£m
Non-current
2015
£m
Non-current
2014
£m
Senior term loans and notes 90.5 89.1 794.7 663.2
Other borrowings 6.2 0.7 – –
Total borrowings 96.7 89.8 794.7 663.2
Analysis of debt
2015
£m
2014
£m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less 96.7 89.8
Between one and two years 134.2 86.4
Between two and five years 367.0 199.9
Over five years 293.5 376.9
Total borrowings 891.4 753.0
Description of borrowings
Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2015 were £286m (2014: £391m).
US$800m revolving credit facility
The Group’s principal bank facility comprises a US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility. In July 2015 the facility was 
extended to June 2020. The Group has the option to extend for a further year in 2016, subject to the agreement of lenders. 
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or their local currency equivalent, plus a margin, depending  
on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2015 were £253.8m (2014: £124.1m).
Bilateral term loan facility 1
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan which was increased on 4 April 2014 to US$40m. This 
facility was further increased in November 2015 to US$100m, and the maturity of this facility was also extended for two years  
to November 2017. Advances under this facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin depending on the Group’s 
leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2015 were £67.5m (2014: £25.8m).
Bilateral term loan facility 2
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan which was increased on 4 April 2014 to US$60m.  
The extended maturity of this facility is March 2016. Advances under this facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a 
margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2015 were £40.4m (2014: £38.6m). 
Private placement bonds
In June 2008 the Group issued US$100m of senior notes. The notes, which were repaid on 26 June 2015, paid a fixed annual 
interest rate of 5.54%.
In December 2008 the Group issued US$100m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$25m repayable 
on 21 January 2014 at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.5% and US$75m repayable on 10 June 2016 at a fixed annual interest  
rate of 8.0%.
In December 2010 the Group issued US$250m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$100m repayable 
on 15 December 2017 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.2% and US$150m repayable on 15 December 2020 at a fixed annual 
interest rate of 3.91%.
In October 2011 the Group issued US$265m of senior notes. These notes were issued in three tranches with US$20m repayable  
on 18 January 2019 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.0%, US$140m repayable on 18 January 2022 at a fixed annual interest  
rate of 3.75% and US$105m repayable on 18 January 2024 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.85%.
In February 2013 the Group issued US$80m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$40m repayable  
on 14 February 2023 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.10% and US$40m repayable on 14 February 2025 at a fixed annual 
interest rate of 3.25%.
In July 2014 the Group issued US$110m of senior notes. These notes were issued in four tranches with US$15m repayable on  
31 July 2021 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.37%, US$20m repayable on 31 July 2024 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.86%, 
US$60m repayable on 31 October 2026 at a fixed annual interest rate of 4.05% and US$15m repayable on 31 December 2026  
at a fixed annual interest rate of 4.10%. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 118
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
FINANCIAL RISKS
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, 
interest rate and currency risk are set out below, and in the Strategic Report – Financial Review that starts on page 34.
Credit risk Exposure to credit risk
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group 
monitors the creditworthiness of customers on an ongoing basis. The Group’s credit risk is diversified due to the large number 
of entities, industries and regions that make up the Group’s customer base.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. At the reporting date this was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables, net of allowance (note 11) 413.7 368.1
Cash and cash equivalents 116.0 119.5
Total 529.7 487.6
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Asia Pacific 111.5 101.4
Americas 160.2 123.6
Europe, Middle East and Africa 142.0 143.1
Total 413.7 368.1
Counterparty risk
Cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing facilities are at risk in the event that the counterparty is not able to meet 
its obligations in regards to the cash held or facilities available to the Group. The Group also enters into transactions with 
counterparties in relation to derivative financial instruments. If the counterparty was not able to meet its obligations, the  
Group may be exposed to additional foreign currency or interest rate risk.
The Group, wherever possible, enters into arrangements with counterparties who have robust credit standing, which the Group 
defines as a financial institution with a credit rating of at least A-. The Group has existing banking relationships with a number 
of ‘relationship banks’ that meet this criterion, and seeks to use their services wherever possible while avoiding excessive 
concentration of credit risk. Given the diverse geographic nature of the Group’s activities, it is not always possible to use a 
relationship bank. Therefore the Group has set limits on the level of deposits to be held at non-relationship banks to minimise  
the risk to the Group. It is also Group policy to remit any excess funds from local entities back to Intertek Group Treasury  
in the UK. Given the controls in place, and based on a current assessment of our banking relationships, management does  
not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as and when they fall due. The Group’s policy is to:
• ensure sufficient liquidity is available to Group companies in the amounts, currencies and locations required to support the 
Group’s operations;
• ensure the Group has adequate available sources of funding to protect against unforeseen internal and external events; and
•  avoid excess liquidity which restricts growth and impacts the cost of financing.
To ensure this policy is met, the Group monitors cash balances on a daily basis, projects cash requirements on a rolling basis 
and funds itself using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities/(assets) including interest (for floating rate instruments, interest 
payments are based on the interest rate at 31 December 2015):
2015
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 885.2 1,014.7 52.9 62.8 173.0 420.5 305.5
Other loans 6.2 6.2 – 6.2 – – –
Trade payables (note 12) 64.7 64.7 63.2 1.5 – – –
956.1 1,085.6 116.1 70.5 173.0 420.5 305.5
Derivative financial liabilities/(assets)
Forward exchange contracts:
 Outflow – 423.4 366.5 56.9 – – –
 Inflow (1.6) (425.0) (367.7) (57.3) – – –
(1.6) (1.6) (1.2) (0.4) – – –
Total 954.5 1,084.0 114.9 70.1 173.0 420.5 305.5
2014
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 752.3 990.5 13.2 103.4 320.4 197.2 356.3
Other loans 0.7 0.7 – 0.7 – – –
Trade payables (note 12) 42.5 42.3 42.1 0.2 – – –
795.5 1,033.5 55.3 104.3 320.4 197.2 356.3
Derivative financial liabilities/(assets)
Forward exchange contracts:
 Outflow – 368.5 368.5 – – – –
 Inflow (4.1) (372.6) (372.6) – – – –
(4.1) (4.1) (4.1) – – – –
Total 791.4 1,029.4 51.2 104.3 320.4 197.2 356.3
Interest rate risk
The Group’s objective is to manage the risk to the business from movements in interest rates, and to provide stability and 
predictability of the near term (12 month horizon) interest expense. Under the Group’s Treasury policy, management may fix the 
interest rates on up to 80% of the Group’s debt portfolio for the period of the current financial year. The Group’s debt portfolio 
beyond this period is to be managed within the range of a 20%-60% fixed to floating rate ratio. To do this the Group uses 
hedging instruments where considered appropriate. 
Sensitivity
At 31 December 2015, it is estimated that the impact on variable rate net debt of a general increase of 3% in interest rates would 
be a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax of approximately £4.5m (2014: £6.0m). This analysis assumes all other variables 
remain constant. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 120
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s objective in managing foreign currency risk is to safeguard the Group’s financial assets from economic loss due to 
fluctuations in foreign currencies, and to protect margins on cross currency contracts and operations. To achieve this, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge its foreign currency exposures where appropriate. 
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial 
percentage of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high 
proportion of international activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: 
(i) translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign 
assets and liabilities into sterling and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on 
the value of the Group’s commercial cash flows in various currencies.
The foreign currency profiles of cash, trade receivables and payables subject to translation risk and transaction risk, at the reporting 
date were as follows:
2015
Carrying
 amount 
£m
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Chinese
 renminbi 
£m
Hong Kong
 dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Other 
currencies 
£m
Cash 116.0 6.2 13.6 16.4 2.2 1.3 76.3
Trade receivables (note 11) 413.7 37.7 138.1 37.6 11.2 40.9 148.2
Trade payables (note 12) 64.7 11.0 15.3 9.0 2.1 8.8 18.5
2014
Cash 119.5 12.8 7.9 25.3 2.4 4.6 66.5
Trade receivables (note 11) 368.1 39.7 98.1 36.0 10.3 37.5 146.5
Trade payables (note 12) 42.5 4.6 7.0 4.6 1.6 9.8 14.9
RECOGNISED ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign 
currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.
HEDGE OF NET INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective 
subsidiaries. The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2015 was £885.2m (2014: £752.3m).
A foreign exchange loss of £33.1m (2014: loss £42.9m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these 
loans to sterling.
SENSITIVITY
It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar (the main currency impacting the Group) 
would have decreased the Group’s profit before tax for 2015 by approximately £15.9m (2014: £15.2m). This analysis assumes  
all other variables remain constant.
FAIR VALUES
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments 
by class.
Book value
2015
£m
Fair value
2015
£m
Book value
2014
£m
Fair value
2014
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 116.0 116.0 119.5 119.5
Trade receivables (note 11) 413.7 413.7 368.1 368.1
Forward exchange contracts* 1.6 1.6 4.1 4.1
Total financial assets 531.3 531.3 491.7 491.7
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings* 891.4 900.6 753.0 790.6
Trade payables (note 12) 64.7 64.7 42.5 42.5
Forward exchange contracts* – – – –
Total financial liabilities 956.1 965.3 795.5 833.1
*  Interest bearing loans and borrowing, and derivative liabilities are categorised as Level 2 under which the fair value is measured using inputs other than quoted prices 
observable for the liability, either directly or indirectly. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15 Capital and reserves
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement  
in equity in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’)
Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases  
of shares in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
Share capital
Group and Company
2015
Number
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 161,361,777 1.6 1.6
Share options exercised – – –
Share awards – – –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 161,361,777 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company. 
During the year, all share options vesting were settled via the ESOT and as a result the Company issued nil (2014: nil) ordinary 
shares in respect of all share plans. 
Purchase of own shares for trust
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company financed the purchase of 200,126 (2014: 705,537) of its own shares  
with an aggregate nominal value of £2,001 (2014: £7,055) for £5.2m (2014: £20.6m) which was charged to retained earnings  
in equity and was held by the ESOT. This trust is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. During the year, 
295,908 shares were utilised to satisfy the vesting of share awards and share options (note 17). At 31 December 2015, the ESOT 
held 514,938 shares (2014: 610,720 shares) with an aggregate nominal value of £5,149 (2014: £6,107). The associated cash 
outflow of £5.2m (2014: £20.6m) has been presented as a financing cash flow.
Dividends
2015
£m
2015
Pence per
 share
2014
£m
2014
Pence per
 share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 – – 49.9 31.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 – – 25.6 16.0
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 53.3 33.1 – –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 27.4 17.0 – –
Dividends paid 80.7 50.1 75.5 47.0
After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 35.3p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2015, which is expected to amount to £57.0m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial 
statements. If approved, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 3 June 2016.
RESERVES
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Other
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 122
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
16 Employee benefits
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Pension schemes
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into  
a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions  
to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Group’s net obligation in respect of material defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by  
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years;  
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. The fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
In calculating the defined benefit deficit, the discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that  
have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency  
in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the  
Projected Unit credit method. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period  
is charged to the operating profit in the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest  
on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance  
expense respectively.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined contribution 
arrangements. However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland. 
The United Kingdom and Hong Kong schemes are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds  
and the Switzerland scheme is an insured scheme. The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new 
entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively. Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are 
therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The Group recognises all actuarial remeasurements in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income.
In June 2011, the International Accounting Standards Board issued revisions to IAS 19 Employee Benefits (‘IAS 19’) that  
provide changes in the recognition, presentation and disclosure of post-employment benefits. The Group has adopted  
the revised accounting standard from 1 January 2013.
TOTAL PENSION COST
The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Defined contribution schemes (36.3) (34.3)
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost and administration expenses (3.3) (2.8)
Pension cost included in operating profit (note 5) (39.6) (37.1)
The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.  
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom (‘United Kingdom Scheme’)  
was carried out as at 1 April 2013, and for accounting purposes has been updated to 31 December 2015 for IAS 19 purposes.  
The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2013, for local accounting purposes 
but this has been updated to 31 December 2015 for IAS 19 purposes. The Swiss scheme was actuarially valued for IAS 19  
purposes at 31 December 2013 and for accounting purposes has been updated to 31 December 2015 for IAS 19 purposes.  
The average duration of the schemes are 20 years, 10 years and 15 years for the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland 
schemes respectively. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Employee benefits (continued)
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES
The cost of defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current service cost (2.9) (2.6)
Scheme administration expenses (0.4) (0.2)
Net pension interest cost (note 14) (0.8) (0.5)
Total charge (4.1) (3.3)
The current service cost and scheme administration expenses are included in operating costs in the income statement and pension 
interest cost and interest income are included in net financing costs.
Included in Other Comprehensive Income:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Remeasurements arising from:
 Demographic assumptions 0.7 (0.3)
 Financial assumptions (0.5) (14.1)
 Experience adjustment (0.5) (1.2)
 Asset valuation (1.6) 3.1
Other (0.3) (0.4)
Total (2.2) (12.9)
Company contributions
The Company assessed the triennial actuarial valuation and its impact on the scheme funding plan in 2016 and future years.  
In 2016 the Group expects to make normal contributions of £0.6m (2015: £1.3m) and a special contribution of £2.8m 
(2015: £2.8m) to the United Kingdom scheme. The next triennial valuation is due to take place as at 1 April 2016. 
The Hong Kong scheme has an annual actuarial valuation, identifying the funding requirements for 2016. 
Pension liability for defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for defined benefit schemes were as follows:
United
 Kingdom
 Scheme
£m
Hong Kong
 Scheme
£m
Switzerland
Scheme
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 89.4 17.6 13.9 120.9
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (107.8) (22.7) (17.3) (147.8)
Deficit in schemes (18.4) (5.1) (3.4) (26.9)
The fair value changes in the scheme assets are shown below: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 120.1 113.3
Interest income 3.7 4.4
Normal contributions by the employer 1.6 1.7
Special contributions by the employer 2.8 0.9
Contributions by scheme participants 0.5 0.7
Benefits paid (7.5) (4.4)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes 1.5 0.4
Remeasurements (1.6) 3.1
Scheme administration expenses (0.4) –
Contribution to fund scheme administration expenses 0.2 –
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 120.9 120.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 124
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
16 Employee benefits (continued)
ASSET ALLOCATION:
Investment statements were provided by the Investment Managers which showed that, as at 31 December 2015 the invested 
assets of the United Kingdom Scheme totalled £89.4m (2014: £87.8m) and of the Hong Kong Scheme totalled £17.6m (2014: 
£18.0m) broken down as follows:
United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme
Asset class
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equities 41.8 45.7 11.3 11.5
Property 8.4 1.5 – –
Bonds – 14.8 6.2 6.2
Absolute Return Fund
* 23.0 17.1 – –
Liability Driven Investment
** 13.0 2.8 – –
Cash 3.2 5.9 0.1 0.3
Total 89.4 87.8 17.6 18.0
*  The Absolute Return Fund aims to provide positive investment returns in all conditions over the medium to long-term. The investment managers have a wide 
investment remit and look to exploit market inefficiencies through active allocation to a diverse range of market positions. The Fund uses a combination of 
traditional assets and investment strategies based on derivatives and is able to take long and short-term positions in markets.
**  The LDI Fund provides the hedge against adverse movements in inflation and interest rates. It seeks to match the sensitivity of the Scheme’s liability cash  
flow to changes in interest rates and inflation; it is invested in gilts, swaps, futures, repo contracts and money market instruments.
The United Kingdom Scheme had bank account assets of £0.1m as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £0.2m).
All unvested assets of the United Kingdom and Hong Kong Schemes are unquoted. The Switzerland Scheme is fully insured 
therefore there are no invested assets.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 145.4 126.4
Current service cost 2.9 2.6
Interest cost 4.5 4.9
Contributions by scheme participants 0.5 0.7
Benefits paid (7.5) (4.4)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes 1.7 (0.4)
Remeasurements 0.3 15.6
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 147.8 145.4
Principal actuarial assumptions:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Switzerland Scheme
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
Discount rate 3.7 3.6 1.6 1.9 0.8 1.5
Inflation rate (based on CPI) 2.5 2.3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Rate of salary increases 3.3 3.1 4.0 4.0 1.0 1.0
Rate of pension increases:
CPI subject to a maximum of 5% p.a. 2.5 2.3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Increases subject to a maximum of 2.5% p.a. 1.9 1.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a
The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension and the Switzerland Scheme is an 
insured plan. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Employee benefits (continued)
Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme * Switzerland Scheme
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Male aged 40 47.2 47.0 n/a n/a 41.6 41.6
Male aged 65 22.2 22.2 n/a n/a 18.9 18.9
Female aged 40 49.1 49.0 n/a n/a 44.6 44.6
Female aged 65 24.5 24.4 n/a n/a 21.4 21.4
*  The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension at the point of retirement. Since the amount of the lump sum is not 
related to the life expectancy of the member, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong Scheme.
  The table above shows, for the United Kingdom Scheme, the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at 
31 December. The mortality tables adopted in both 2015 and 2014 for the United Kingdom Scheme are the S1PA projected by year of birth, based on the CMI 2013 
mortality projection model with a 1.25% long-term annual rate for future improvements. For the Switzerland Scheme, the mortality table adopted for both 2015 
and 2014 is the BVG 2010, an industry standard in Switzerland which is based on statistical evidence of major Switzerland pension funds.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the United Kingdom and Hong Kong pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 
2015 of the two main assumptions:
UK Scheme Hong Kong Scheme
Change in assumptions
Liabilities
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in deficit
£m
Liabilities
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in deficit
£m
No change 107.8 – 22.7 –
0.25% rise in discount rate 102.0 (5.8) 22.2 (0.5)
0.25% fall in discount rate 113.7 5.9 23.3 0.6
0.25% rise in inflation 110.6 2.8 22.7 –
0.25% fall in inflation 104.8 (3.0) 22.7 –
The United Kingdom Scheme is also subject to the mortality assumption. If the mortality tables used are rated up/down one year, 
the value placed on the liabilities increases by £3.0m and decreases by £2.9m respectively.
FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS 
United Kingdom Scheme
The trustees use the Projected Unit credit method with a three-year control period. Currently the scheme members pay 
contributions at the rate of 8.5% of salary. The employer pays contributions of 16.4% of salary, plus £0.2m per year to 
fund scheme expenses, and is due to make an additional contribution of £2.8m in 2016 to reduce the deficit disclosed by  
the 2013 valuation.
Hong Kong Scheme
The Trustees use the Attained Age funding method. The last actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2013. Scheme  
members do not contribute to the scheme. The employer pays contributions of 8.5% of salaries including 0.6% in respect  
of scheme expenses.
Funding Risks
The main risks for the Schemes are:
Investment return risk: If the assets underperform the returns assumed in setting the funding targets then additional 
contributions may be required at subsequent valuations.
Investment matching risk: 
 
The Schemes invest significantly in equities, whereas the funding targets are closely related to 
the returns on bonds. If equities fall in value relative to the matching asset of bonds, additional 
contributions may be required.
Longevity risk: If future improvements in longevity exceed the assumptions made for Scheme funding then 
additional contributions may be required.
Role of Third Parties
The United Kingdom Scheme is managed by Trustees on behalf of its members. The Trustees take advice from appropriate third 
parties including investment advisors, actuaries and lawyers as necessary. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 126
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
17 Share schemes
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value 
of the employee services, received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and 
expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award. The charge for the share options and for the 
Share Awards is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting for service conditions. The expense of the Performance 
Awards (previously Matching Awards) is calculated using the Black-Scholes method and is adjusted for the probability of EPS 
performance conditions being achieved.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, 
and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and awards granted since 7 November 2002.
SHARE OPTION SCHEMES
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that 
can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group 
plc 2002 Share Option Plan (‘2002 Plan’) and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan (‘Approved Plan’) were 
established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also 
been discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
 2015 2014
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
At beginning of year 778p 44,286 710p 86,917
Exercised 778p (26,008) 646p (38,067)
Forfeited 762p (18,278) 612p (4,564)
Outstanding options at end of year – – 778p 44,286
Exercisable at end of year – – 778p 44,286
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 2,501p (2014: 2,944p). There were 
no options outstanding at the year end.
Share Plans
The Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 was replaced in 2011 with the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan. Deferred Share Awards 
(previously Share Awards) and LTIP Share awards (previously Performance Awards) have been granted under this plan. The first 
awards were granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under these plans vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of  
the performance conditions.
Outstanding Awards
2015 2014
Deferred
Share 
Awards
LTIP
Share 
Awards
Total 
awards
Deferred 
Share 
Awards
LTIP
Share 
Awards
Total 
awards
At beginning of year 851,376 649,280 1,500,656 999,279 713,329 1,712,608
Granted
* 408,958 455,806 864,764 264,520 312,189 576,709
Vested
** (334,269) (54,511) (388,780) (352,482) (227,457) (579,939)
Forfeited (26,551) (171,084) (197,635) (59,941) (148,781) (208,722)
At end of year 899,514 879,491 1,779,005 851,376 649,280 1,500,656
* Includes 3,798 Deferred Share Awards (2014: 2,459) and 3,026 LTIP Share awards (2014: 3,223) granted in respect of dividend accruals.
**  Of the 388,780 awards vested in 2015, nil were satisfied by the issue of shares and 295,908 by the transfer of shares from the ESOT (see note 15).  
The balance of 92,872 awards represented a tax liability of £3.0m which was settled in cash on behalf of employees by the Group, of which £1.8m was settled by 
the Company.
Deferred Share Plan
On 9 March 2015 the Remuneration Committee approved the adoption of the Intertek Deferred Share Plan (the ‘DSP’). Awards 
may be granted under the DSP to employees of the Group (other than the executive directors of the Company) selected by the 
Remuneration Committee over existing, issued ordinary shares of the Company only. The DSP was adopted primarily to allow  
for the deferral of a proportion of selected employees annual bonus into shares in the Company, but may also be used for the 
grant of other awards (such as incentive awards and buy-out awards for key employees) in circumstances that the Remuneration 
Committee deems appropriate. The initial award under the DSP had a two-year vesting period; any subsequent awards will 
normally have a three-year vesting period. Awards may be made subject to performance conditions and are subject to normal 
good and bad leaver provisions and malus and clawback. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Share schemes (continued)
Outstanding Awards
2015 2015
Deferred 
Share Awards
Total 
awards
At beginning of year – –
Granted
* 101,886 101,886
Vested – –
Forfeited – –
At end of year 101,886 101,886
* Includes 659 Share Awards (2014: nil) granted in respect of dividend accruals.
Mirror Share Awards
On 20 May 2015, André Lacroix was granted conditional rights to acquire 183,149 shares under a one-off arrangement as a 
condition of his recruitment as CEO of the Company. The award comprised two parts, tranche A and B, with tranche A vesting on 
20 May 2016 and tranche B vesting on 20 May 2017. None vested or lapsed in 2015. Further details are shown in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 77. 
Equity-settled transactions
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group recognised an expense of £12.9m (2014: £7.6m). The fair values and the 
assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
Awards
Deferred
Share
 Awards
Share
 Awards
Performance
Awards EPS
element
Performance
Awards TSR
element
Share
 Awards *
Performance
Awards TSR
element
Year shares awarded 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 2,570 2,570 2,394 1,317 3,046 1,633
Share price (pence) 2,570 2,570 2,394 2,394 3,046 3,046
Expected volatility n/a n/a n/a 21.0% n/a 20.5%
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a n/a 0.9% n/a 1.0%
Time to maturity (years) 2 3 3 3 3 3
* The fair values and assumptions are also the same for the EPS element of the Performance Awards.
The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly 
available information.
All Share Awards are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into account in the fair value measurement  
at grant date. The Performance Awards (TSR element) are granted under a performance related market condition and as a result 
this condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
18 Subsequent events
ACQUISITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
On 8 January 2016 the Group completed the acquisition of Food International Trust (‘FIT-Italia‘), an Italian-based provider of food 
quality and safety services to the retail and agricultural sectors.
19 Capital management
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of Intertek; specifically how much capital is raised from shareholders 
(equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities. These activities 
include ongoing operations as well as acquisitions as described in note 10.
The Group’s policy is to maintain a robust capital base (including cash and debt) to ensure the market and key stakeholders 
retain confidence in the capital profile. Debt capital is monitored by Group Treasury assessing the liquidity buffer on a short 
and longer-term basis as discussed in note 14.
The Group uses key performance indicators, including return on invested capital and adjusted diluted earnings per share  
to monitor the capital position of the Group to ensure it is being utilised effectively.
The dividend policy also forms part of the Board’s capital management policy, and the Board ensures there is appropriate  
earnings cover for the dividend proposed at both the interim and year end. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 128
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
20 Non-controlling interest
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore 
no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. 
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
An analysis of the movement in non-controlling interest is shown below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 26.1 24.1
Exchange adjustments 1.0 0.7
Share of profit for the year 13.5 14.1
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (13.3) (12.8)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 0.5 –
At 31 December 27.8 26.1
21 Related parties
IDENTITY OF RELATED PARTIES
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not discussed in this note.
TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term benefits 6.9 5.8
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4
Equity-settled transactions 1.1 2.0
Total 8.5 8.2
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other  
long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration report.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
22 Contingent liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 23.6 24.3
LITIGATION
The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims for damages, 
negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing, and disputes with employees and former employees. 
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business. 
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover to provide protection from the small number of significant claims it is subject 
to from time to time.
TAX
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point 
in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local 
authorities. In some jurisdictions the Group receives tax incentives (see note 6) which are subject to renewal and review and reduce 
the amount of tax payable. Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability 
for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates, 
assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. 
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in these financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Principal Group companies
The principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the 
Group have been shown below. All the subsidiaries shown were consolidated with Intertek Group plc as at 31 December 2015. 
Unless otherwise stated, these entities are wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Company name
Country of Incorporation  
and principal place of operation Activity
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited China Trading
Intertek Testing Services Limited Shanghai (iii) China Trading
Intertek USA Inc. USA Trading
Intertek Testing Services NA Inc. USA Trading
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited (i) England Holding
Intertek Finance plc England Finance
Intertek Testing Services Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Trading
Testing Holdings USA Inc. USA Holding
Intertek USD Finance Limited England Finance
Intertek Holdings Limited (i) England Finance
Labtest Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Trading
Intertek Technical Services Inc. (ii) USA Trading
RCG-Moody International Limited England Holding
(i) Directly owned by Intertek Group plc
(ii) Ownership held in Ordinary and Preference shares
(iii) Equity shareholding 85%, Company controlled by the Group based on management’s assessment
FULLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES 
0949491 B.C. Limited (Canada)
4th Strand, LLC (United States)
Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Limited (Australia)
Ageus Solutions Inc. (Canada)
Alta Analytical Laboratory, Inc. (i) (United States)
Amtac Certification Services Limited (England)
Architectural Testing Canada, Inc. (Canada)
Architectural Testing Holdings, Inc. (United States)
Architectural Testing, Inc. (United States)
Atlantic Verification Cape (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)
BiDiagnostics Holding AB (Sweden)
Caleb Brett Ecuador S.A. (Ecuador) 
Cantox US Inc. (United States)
Capcis Limited (England)
Center for the Evaluation of Clean Energy Technology, Inc. 
(United States)
Charon Insurance Limited (Bermuda)
Electrical Mechanical Instrument Services (UK) Limited 
(Scotland)
Entela-Taiwan, Inc. (United States)
Esperanza Guernsey Holdings Ltd. (Guernsey)
Esperanza International Services (Southern Africa) (Pty.) Limited 
(South Africa)
Four Front Research (India) Pvt Limited (ii) (India)
Gellatly Hankey Marine Services (M) Sdn Bhd (Malaysia)
Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Limited (v) (Australia)
Geotechnical Services Pty Limited (Australia)
Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation (United States)
Global X-Ray Holdings, Inc. (iv) (United States)
Hawks Acquisition Holding, Inc (United States)
Hi-Tech Holdings, Inc. (United States)
Hi-Tech Testing Service, Inc. (United States)
H.P. White Laboratory Inc. (United States)
Industry Services, US Construction (i) (United States)
Inspection Services (US), LLC (United States)
Inteco Group Services Limited (i) (British Virgin Islands)
International Cargo Services, Inc. (i) (United States)
International Inspection Services Limited (Isle of Man)
Intertek (KG) Limited Liability Company (ii) (Kyrgyzstan)
Intertek (Mauritius) Limited (Mauritius)
Intertek (Schweiz) AG (Switzerland)
Intertek Academy A/S (Denmark)
Intertek Argentina Certificaciones S.A. (iii) (Argentina)
Intertek Aruba N.V. (Aruba)
Intertek Asset Integrity Management, Inc. (United States)
Intertek ATI SRL (Romania)
Intertek Australia Holdings Pty Limited (Australia)
Intertek Azeri Limited (Azerbaijan)
Intertek BA EOOD (Bulgaria)
Intertek Bangladesh Limited (Bangladesh)
Intertek Belgium NV (Belgium)
Intertek Burkina Faso Ltd Sarl (i) (Burkina Faso)
Intertek C&T Australia Holdings PTY Ltd (i) (Australia)
Intertek C&T Australia Pty Ltd (i) (Australia)
Intertek Caleb Brett (Uruguay) S.A. (Uruguay)
Intertek Caleb Brett Chile S.A. (Chile)
Intertek Caleb Brett Colombia S.A. (Colombia)
Intertek Caleb Brett El Salvador S.A. de C.V. (El Salvador)
Intertek Caleb Brett Germany GmbH (Germany)
Intertek Caleb Brett Panama, Inc. (i) (Panama)
Intertek Caleb Brett Venezuela C.A. (Venezuela)
Intertek Capacitacion Chile Spa (Chile)
Intertek Capital Resources Limited (England)
Intertek Certification AB (Sweden)
GROUP COMPANIES
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, joint ventures and 
joint arrangements, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2015 are 
disclosed. The above principal subsidiaries have not been duplicated in the list below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital 
disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by Intertek Group plc. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 130
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
23 Principal Group companies 
(continued)
Intertek Certification AS (Norway)
Intertek Certification France (France)
Intertek Certification GmbH (Germany)
Intertek Certification International Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia)
Intertek Certification Japan Limited (Japan)
Intertek Certification Limited (England)
Intertek Ceska Republika, s.r.o. (ii) (Czech Republic)
Intertek Commodities Botswana (Proprietary) Limited 
(Botswana)
Intertek Commodities Mozambique Lda (Mozambique)
Intertek Consulting & Training (UK) Limited (Scotland)
Intertek Consulting & Training (USA), Inc. (United States)
Intertek Consulting & Training Colombia Limitada (Colombia)
Intertek Consulting & Training Egypt (Egypt)
Intertek Consulting AB (Sweden)
Intertek Consumer Goods GmbH (Germany)
Intertek Curacao N.V (Curacao)
Intertek de Guatemala SA (Guatemala)
Intertek de Nicaragua S.A. (Nicaragua)
Intertek Denmark A/S (Denmark)
Intertek Deutschland GmbH (Germany)
Intertek DIC A/S (Denmark)
Intertek Egypt for Testing Services (Egypt)
Intertek Engineering Service Shanghai Limited (China)
Intertek Engineering Services (Wuhu) Ltd (China)
Intertek Estonia OÜ (Estonia)
Intertek Evaluate AB (Sweden)
Intertek Finance Ireland (Ireland)
Intertek Finance No. 2 Ltd (England)
Intertek Finland OY (Finland)
Intertek Fisheries Certification Limited (England)
Intertek Food Services GmbH (Germany)
Intertek France (France)
Intertek Fujairah FZC (United Arab Emirates)
Intertek Genalysis (Zambia) Limited (Zambia)
Intertek Genalysis Madagascar SA (Madagascar)
Intertek Genalysis SI Ltd (Solomon Islands)
Intertek Ghana Limited (Ghana)
Intertek Global (Iraq) Limited (i) (England)
Intertek Global International LLC (Qatar)
Intertek Global Limited (Jersey)
Intertek Health Sciences Inc. (Canada)
Intertek Holding Deutschland GmbH (Germany)
Intertek Holdings France (France)
Intertek Holdings Italia SRL (Italy)
Intertek Holdings Nederland B.V. (Netherlands)
Intertek Holdings Norge AS (Norway)
Intertek Hungary Kft. (Hungary)
Intertek Ibérica Spain S.L. (Spain)
Intertek India Private Limited (India)
Intertek Industrial Services GmbH (Germany)
Intertek Industry and Certification Services (Thailand) Limited. 
(Thailand)
Intertek Industry Services (PTY) LTD (South Africa)
Intertek Industry Services (S) Pte Ltd (Singapore)
Intertek Industry Services Brasil Ltda (Brazil)
Intertek Industry Services Colombia Limited (Colombia)
Intertek Industry Services Japan Limited (Japan)
Intertek Industry Services Romania Srl (Romania)
Intertek Industry WLL (Bahrain)
Intertek Inspection Services Ltd (Canada)
Intertek Inspection Services Scandinavia AS (Norway)
Intertek Inspection Services UK Limited (England)
Intertek Insurance Surveyors and Loss Assessors Private Limited 
(India)
Intertek International France (France)
Intertek International Guinee S.A.R.L. (Guinea)
Intertek International Inc. (United States)
Intertek International Kazakhstan, LLC (Kazakhstan)
Intertek International Limited (England)
Intertek International LLC (Uzbekistan)
Intertek International Ltd Egypt (Egypt)
Intertek International Nederland BV (Netherlands)
Intertek International Niger SARL (Niger)
Intertek International Suriname N.V. (Suriname)
Intertek International Tanzania Limited  
(United Republic of Tanzania)
Intertek Italia SpA (Italy)
Intertek Japan K.K. (Japan)
Intertek Kalite Servisleri Limited Sirketi (Turkey)
Intertek Korea Industry Service Ltd (Republic of Korea)
Intertek Labtest S.A.R.L (Morocco)
Intertek Ltd (Bahamas)
Intertek Luxembourg S.a.r.l (Luxembourg)
Intertek Management Services (Australia) Pty Ltd (Australia)
Intertek Med SARL AU (Morocco)
Intertek Medical Diagnostic Testing Centre (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 
(China)
Intertek Minerales Services SARL (Guinea)
Intertek Minerals Limited (Ghana)
Intertek Myanmar Limited (Myanmar)
Intertek Nederland B.V. (Netherlands)
Intertek Nominees Limited (England)
Intertek Overseas Holdings Limited (England)
Intertek Overseas Holdings, Eritrea Limited (Eritrea)
Intertek Pakistan (Private) Limited (Pakistan)
Intertek Poland sp.z o.o. (Poland)
Intertek Poland-Certification Sp. z.o.o (Poland)
Intertek Polychemlab B.V. (Netherlands)
Intertek Portugal Unipessoal Lda (Portugal)
Intertek Quality Services Ltd (i) (England)
Intertek Resource Solutions (Trinidad) Limited  
(Trinidad and Tobago)
Intertek Resource Solutions, Inc. (United States)
Intertek Rus CJSC (Russia)
Intertek S.R.O (Czech Republic)
Intertek Saudi Arabia Limited (England)
Intertek Saudi Arabia Limited (Saudi Arabia)
Intertek ScanBi Diagnostics AB (Sweden)
Intertek Secretaries Limited (i) (England)
Intertek Semko AB (Sweden)
Intertek Services (Pty) Ltd (South Africa)
Intertek Servicios C.A. (i) (Venezuela)
Intertek Settlements Limited (i) (England)
Intertek Statius N.V. (Saint Martin)
Intertek Surveying Services (USA) LLC (United States)
Intertek Surveying Services UK Limited (Scotland)
Intertek Tajikistan, LLC (ii) (Tajikistan)
Intertek Technical Inspections Canada Inc. (iii) (Canada)
Intertek Technical Services PTY Limited (Australia)
Intertek Testing & Certification Limited (England) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
131 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Principal Group companies 
(continued)
Intertek Testing and Inspection Services UK Limited (England)
Intertek Testing Management Limited (England)
Intertek Testing Services (Australia) Pty Limited (Australia)
Intertek Testing Services (Cambodia) Company Limited 
(Cambodia)
Intertek Testing Services (East Africa) Pty Limited (South Africa)
Intertek Testing Services (Fiji) Limited (Fiji)
Intertek Testing Services (Guangzhou) Ltd (China)
Intertek Testing Services (ITS) Canada Ltd. (Canada)
Intertek Testing Services (Japan) K. K. (Japan)
Intertek Testing Services (NZ) Limited (New Zealand)
Intertek Testing Services (Shanghai FTZ) Co., Ltd (China)
Intertek Testing Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
Intertek Testing Services (Thailand) Limited (Thailand)
Intertek Testing Services Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
Intertek Testing Services Bolivia S.A. (Bolivia)
Intertek Testing Services Caleb Brett Egypt Limited (England)
Intertek Testing Services Center (Russia)
Intertek Testing Services Chongqing Co. Limited (China) 
Intertek Testing Services de Honduras, S.A. (Honduras)
Intertek Testing Services De Mexico, S.A. De C.V. (iii) (Mexico)
Intertek Testing Services Environmental Laboratories Inc. (i) 
(United States)
Intertek Testing Services International (Hong Kong) Limited 
(Hong Kong)
Intertek Testing Services International AB (i) (Sweden)
Intertek Testing Services Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
Intertek Testing Services NA Limited (Canada)
Intertek Testing Services NA Sweden AB (i) (Sweden)
Intertek Testing Services Namibia (Proprietary) Limited (Namibia)
Intertek Testing Services Pacific Limited (Hong Kong)
Intertek Testing Services Peru S.A. (Peru)
Intertek Testing Services Philippines, Inc. (Philippines)
Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited (Taiwan)
Intertek Testing Services Tianjin Limited (China)
Intertek Torton Limited (Hong Kong)
Intertek Training Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia)
Intertek Trinidad Limited (Trinidad and Tobago)
Intertek UK Holdings Limited (England)
Intertek Ukraine (Ukraine)
Intertek USA Finance LLC (United States)
Intertek Vietnam Limited (Vietnam)
Intertek West Africa SARL (Cote d’Ivoire)
Intertek West Lab AS (Norway)
Intertek Genalysis (South Africa) Pty Limited (South Africa)
ITS (PNG) Limited (Papua New Guinea)
ITS Hong Kong NA, Limited (i) (Hong Kong)
ITS Labtest Bangladesh Limited (Bangladesh)
ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited (Canada)
ITS Testing Services (UK) Limited (England)
Labtest International Inc. (United States)
Labtest (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd (ii) (South Africa)
Labtest Portugal-Testes Laboratoriais, Unipessoal Lda. (Portugal)
Lintec Testing Services Limited (England)
Louisiana Grain Services, Inc. (i) (United States)
Mace Land Company, Inc. (United States)
Management & Industrial Consultancy (i) (Egypt)
Management Systems International Limited (i) (England)
Material Testing Lab Inc (United States)
Materials Testing & Inspection Services Limited (England)
McPhar Geoservices (Philippines) Inc. (i) (Philippines)
Melbourn Scientific Limited (England)
Metoc Limited (England)
Midwest Engineering Services, Inc. (United States)
Moody Algerie SARL (Algeria)
Moody Energy Technical Service Co Ltd (China)
Moody International (Holdings) Limited (England)
Moody International (India) Private Limited (India)
Moody International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (Malaysia)
Moody International (Russia) Limited (England)
Moody International Angola Ltda (Angola)
Moody International Certification India Limited (India)
Moody International de Argentina SA (Argentina)
Moody International Holdings LLC (United States)
Moody International LLC (i) (Ukraine)
Moody International Philippines Inc. (Philippines)
Moody International Scandinavia AB (Sweden)
Moody Shanghai Consulting Ltd (China)
Moody United Certification Limited (China)
MT Group LLC (United States)
MT Operating of New Jersey LLC (United States)
MT Operating of New York LLC (United States)
NDT Services Limited (England)
Northern Territory Environmental Laboratories Pty Ltd (Australia)
OY Intertek Trading Limited (ii) (Finland)
Paulsen & Bayes-Davy Ltd (Hong Kong)
Petroleum Services of Union Lab Sdn Bhd (Malaysia)
Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory, Inc (United States)
Professional Service Industries Holding, Inc. (United States)
Professional Service Industries (Canada), Inc. (Canada)
Professional Service Industries, Inc. (United States)
PSI Acquisitions, Inc. (United States) 
PT. Moody Technical Services (Indonesia)
PT. RCG Moody (Indonesia)
RCG Moody International Uruguay S.A. (Uruguay)
S.A.R.L. Intertek OCA France (France)
Schindler & Associates (L.C.) (i) (United States)
Shanghai Orient Intertek Testing Services Company Limited 
(China)
Shanghai Tianxiao Investment Consultancy Company Limited 
(China)
Technical Company for Testing and Conformity Services & 
Systems LLC (Iraq)
Testing Holdings Sweden AB (Sweden)
Tradegood Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore)
Tradegood WFOE – Beijing Rui Gu Information Consultancy 
Company Ltd (China)
Tradegood.com International Limited (Hong Kong)
UAB Intertek Lithuania (Lithuania)
Utah Inspection, L.L.C. (United States)
Van Sluys & Bayet NV (Belgium)
Western X-Ray Service, L.L.C. (United States)
White Land Company, Inc. (United States)
Wilson Inspection X-Ray Services, Inc. (United States)
Wisco SE Asia PTE Limited (i) (Singapore)
Yickson Enterprises Limited (Hong Kong)
Youngever Holdings Limited (British Virgin Islands) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 132
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
23 Principal Group companies 
(continued)
SUBSIDIARIES WHERE THE EFFECTIVE INTEREST  
IS LESS THAN 100%
Hi-Cad de Mexico SA de CV (i) (Mexico, 98%)
International Inspection Services LLC (Oman, 70%)
Intertek Angola LDA (Angola, 99%)
Intertek do Brasil Inspecoes Ltda (Brazil, 99%)
Intertek Engineering Service Shanghai Limited (China, 90%)
Intertek Laboratorios (Brazil, 85%)
Intertek Testing Services (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 
(South Africa, 75%)
Intertek Testing Services Nigeria Limited (Nigeria, 60%)
ITS (Subic Bay), Inc. (Philippines, 99%)
ITS Testing Services (M) Sdn Bhd (Malaysia, 74%)
Laboratory Services International Rotterdam B.V.  
(Netherlands, 75%)
Lynx Diagnostics Inc. (vii) (Canada, 50%)
Moody International Certification Limited (i) (Latvia, 40%)
Moody International Holdings Chile Ltda (Chile, 99%)
Moody International Lanka (Private) Ltd. (Sri Lanka, 99.90%)
PT Citrabuana Indoloka (vii) (Indonesia, 50%)
RCG Moody International de Venezuela S.A.  
(Venezuela, 99.03%)
Shanghai Moody Management & Technical Services Co. Ltd 
(China, 90%)
JOINT VENTURES
Caleb Brett Abu Dhabi LLC (United Arab Emirates, 49%)
Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC (United Arab Emirates, 
49%)
Intertek (Qeshm Island) Limited (Iran, 51%)
Intertek ETL SEMKO KOREA Limited (Republic of Korea, 90%)
Intertek Industry Services (PTY) LTD (Cote d’Ivoire, 34%)
Intertek Kimsco Co. Ltd. (vii) (Republic of Korea, 50%)
Intertek Lanka (Private) Limited (Sri Lanka, 69%)
Intertek Libya Technical Services and Consultations Company Spa 
(Libya, 65%)
Intertek Robotic Laboratories Pty Limited (vii) (Australia, 50%)
Intertek Test Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi (Turkey, 89.97%)
Intertek Testing Services (Hangzhou) Limited (China, 70%)
Intertek Testing Services Wuxi Ltd (China, 70%)
Intertek-Motabaqah Testing (Saudi Arabia, 51%)
ITS Caleb Brett Deniz Survey A S (vii) (Turkey, 50%)
ITS Testing Services Holdings (M) Sdn Bhd (Malaysia, 49%)
Moody International Bangladesh Limited (Bangladesh, 99.98%)
Moody International Certification Ltd (Malta) (Malta, 40%)
PT. Intertek Utama Services (vii) (Indonesia, 50%)
Qatar Calibration Services LLC (Qatar, 49%)
Shenzhen Moody Quality Management (China, 55%)
Societe Tunisienne d’Inspection Caleb Brett SARL (Tunisia, 51%)
UzIntertek Testing Services LLC (Uzbekistan, 51%)
ASSOCIATES
Intertek Riyadh Geotechnique and Foundations Laboratory 
(Saudi Arabia, 51%)
Decernis LLC (United States, 20%)
(i) Dormant Company.
(ii) In Liquidation.
(iii) Ownership held in class of A shares and B shares.
(iv) Ownership held in class of A shares and E shares.
(v) Ownership held in ordinary and preference shares.
(vi) Shares held in Class A, B, C, D, E and F.
(vii)  Intertek shares joint control over the company under a shareholders’ 
agreement, and its rights to the profit, assets and liabilities of the company 
are dependent on the performance of the group’s brands rather than the 
effective equity ownership of the company. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
133 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Intertek Group plc – Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015 Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (d) 308.1 300.9
Current assets
Debtors due after more than one year (e) 124.5 153.4
Debtors due within one year 66.9 32.6
191.4 186.0
Cash at bank and in hand 1.0 –
192.4 186.0
Creditors due within one year
Overdraft and loans – (3.6)
Other creditors (30.6) (7.1)
(30.6) (10.7)
Net current assets 161.8 175.3
Total assets less current liabilities 469.9 476.2
Creditors due after one year
Other creditors (f) (55.2) (8.5)
(55.2) (8.5)
Net assets 414.7 467.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (g) 1.6 1.6
Share premium (g) 257.8 257.8
Profit and loss account (g) 155.3 208.3
Shareholders’ funds 414.7 467.7
The financial statements on pages 133 to 137 were approved by the Board on 1 March 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
EDWARD LEIGH
Chief Financial Officer FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 134
Financial statements
Intertek Group plc – Company statement of changes in equity
Notes
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 1.6 257.8 217.6 477.0
Total comprehensive income  
for the year
Profit (b) – – 85.5 85.5
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – 85.5 85.5
Transactions with owners of the 
company recognised directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to the owners of the company
Dividends paid (c) – – (75.5) (75.5)
Purchase of own shares – – (20.6) (20.6)
Tax paid on share awards vested – – (6.3) (6.3)
Equity-settled transactions (d) – – 7.6 7.6
Total contributions by and distributions 
to the owners of the company – – (94.8) (94.8)
At 31 December 2014 1.6 257.8 208.3 467.7
At 1 January 2015 1.6 257.8 208.3 467.7
Total comprehensive income  
for the year
Profit (b) – – 21.8 21.8
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – – 21.8 21.8
Transactions with owners of the 
company recognised directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to the owners of the company
Dividends paid (c) – – (80.7) (80.7)
Purchase of own shares – – (5.2) (5.2)
Tax paid on share awards vested – – (1.8) (1.8)
Equity-settled transactions (d) – – 12.9 12.9
Total contributions by and distributions 
to the owners of the company – – (74.8) (74.8)
At 31 December 2015 1.6 257.8 155.3 414.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
135 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements
(A) ACCOUNTING POLICIES – COMPANY
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
(‘FRS 101’). The amendments to FRS 101 (2014/15 Cycle) issued in July 2015 and effective immediately have been applied. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRSs’), but makes amendments where necessary  
in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions  
has been taken. In these financial statements, the company has adopted FRS 101 for the first time.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in 
compliance with FRS 101. The transition to FRS 101 has not affected the reported financial position and financial performance  
of the Company. 
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the  
following disclosures: 
• a Cash Flow Statement and related notes;
• Comparative period reconciliations for share capital
• Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;
• Disclosures in respect of capital management; 
• the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs; 
• an additional balance sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change in 
accounting policy; 
• Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel; and
• Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument 
Disclosures on the basis that the consolidated financial statements include the equivalent disclosures.
As the consolidated financial statements include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under  
FRS 101 available in respect of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of group settled share based payments.
The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
financial statements and in preparing an opening FRS 101 IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes of the transition 
to FRS 101.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded to the Company’s functional currency, Sterling, using the rate of exchange ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange 
prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit and loss account except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised 
directly in equity or other comprehensive income. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial 
recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than  
in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement  
of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary difference can be utilised.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 136
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed  
in the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats 
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make 
a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Details  
of the share schemes are given in note 17 of the Group financial statements.
(B) PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the 
Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated 
basis. The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration report.
(C) DIVIDENDS
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 53.3 49.9
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 27.4 25.6
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 80.7 75.5
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2015 is £nil (2014: £nil). The 
aggregate amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2015 is £57.0m (2014: £53.3m).
(D) INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 300.9 301.2
Additions due to share-based payments 12.9 7.6
Recharges of share-based payments to subsidiaries (5.7) (7.9)
At 31 December 308.1 300.9
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made Share Awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-
owned subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £12.9m  
(2014: £7.6m). Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2015; Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and 
Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in 
England and Wales. All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly owned. In the opinion of the Directors,  
the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated  
in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
(E) DEBTORS DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 124.5 153.4
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
137 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(F) CREDITORS DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 55.2 8.5
The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
(G) STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Details of share capital are set out in note 15 and details of share-based payments are set out in note 17 to the Group  
financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £80.7m (2014: £75.5m), was £21.8m (2014: £85.5m) 
which was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
The Group settled in cash the tax element of the share awards vested in March 2015 amounting to £3.0m of which the Company 
settled £1.8m (2014: £6.3m). 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company purchased, through its Employee Benefit Trust, 200,126 (2014: 705,537) 
of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £2,001 (2014: £7,055) for £5.2m (2014: £20.6m) which was charged to 
profit and loss in equity.
(H) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements.
(I) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement.  
This is a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability 
position of the pool which was £10.5m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £29.5m).
From time to time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of 
subsidiary undertakings.
(J) POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 18 of the Group financial statements. OTHER INFORMATION INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 138
Other Information
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of Intertek Group plc only
OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Intertek Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 90 to 
137. In our opinion: 
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs  
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the  
year then ended; 
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit 
significance, were as follows:
Impairment of goodwill £481.4m (2014: £nil) 
Refer to page 79 (Audit Committee Report), page 107 
(accounting policy), and pages 107 to 110 (financial disclosures) 
The risk – The Group has significant goodwill and other 
acquired intangible assets in a wide range of geographical 
locations, and during the year recognised a £577.3m 
impairment charge of which £481.4m related to the impairment 
of the goodwill held in respect of the Industry Services CGU, 
with the remainder being against other intangible assets and 
property, plant and equipment of that CGU following a decline 
in current and forecast performance in light of the continued 
deterioration of oil and gas prices. These assets are reviewed, 
either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a wider cash-
generating unit (CGU), for impairment using a value in use 
calculation, based on forecast cash flows, growth rates and 
discount rates, all of which require a high level of judgement. 
The assessment of future cash flows for the Industry Services 
CGU is particularly dependent on the expectation of the timing 
of the recovery in the Oil & Gas sector as explained on page 32. 
Our response – We challenged the key assumptions used in 
the value in use calculation for each CGU tested, such as 
earnings and cashflow forecasts, the terminal growth and 
discount rate assumptions: comparing earnings forecasts with 
Board approved budgets; comparing the results of the 
discounted cash flows against the Group’s market capitalisation 
to determine if there were any significant differences that 
required further examination; and applying sensitivities where 
assets had a higher risk of impairment. We used external data, 
where necessary, in assessing and corroborating the 
assumptions used in the impairment testing, the most 
significant being the assumption over future oil and gas prices 
and challenged the basis for the Group’s forecasts. We also 
tested the mathematical accuracy of the impairment models 
and performed sensitivity analysis to test the completeness and 
amount of the impairment charge recognised in the year. We 
used our own Corporate Finance specialists to assist us in 
assessing the discount rates and terminal growth rates applied 
to the forecast cash flows and compared the earnings forecasts 
to external market data such as analyst reports 
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures  
in respect of asset carrying values and impairment testing 
in note 9.
Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired 
as part of Professional Services Industries, Inc (PSI) 
(Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired on 
acquisition £212.3 million (see notes 9 and 10) (New 
event-driven risk)
Refer to page 79 (Audit & Risk Committee Report), page  
107 (accounting policy) and page 111 (financial disclosures).
The risk – During the year, the Group acquired 100% of PSI. 
Identification and valuation of intangible assets as part of the 
acquisition accounting is considered a significant risk as a result 
of the judgements involved. In determining the fair value of 
these assets, medium term cash flow forecasts have been 
prepared by the Group. The inherent uncertainty involved  
in forecasting future cash flows, and the judgement involved  
in the selection of the appropriate discount rate, make this  
a subjective area.
Our response – Our procedures included using our own 
valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the 
appropriateness of both: the identification of acquired 
intangibles against the criteria of the relevant accounting 
standards; and the discount rates applied in estimating the  
fair value of those assets, by comparing the inputs used in 
determining the discount rate to externally derived data.  
Our testing of the principles and integrity of the Group’s cash 
flow models included comparing the Group’s forecast revenue 
growth and margin assumptions to Board approved reports as 
well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as 
growth rates and asset lives. We also considered the adequacy 
of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the acquisition and the 
related judgements in note 10. 
Current tax provisioning and deferred tax balances: 
Current tax liability £51.7m (2014: £35.2m), Deferred tax 
asset £42.7m (2014: £24.6m) 
Refer to page 79 (Audit & Risk Committee Report), pages  
96, 101 and 102 (accounting policy) and pages 101 to 104 
(financial disclosures).
The risk – The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions 
across the world. As a result the tax charge is determined 
according to a variety of sometimes complex tax laws and 
regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations  
is unclear, judgement is applied in determining the liability  
for the tax to be paid. In addition, the recognition of deferred 
tax assets can be complex due to the judgements and  
estimates required in forecasting future taxable profits  
across these jurisdictions. 
Our response – Our procedures included using our own tax 
specialists, in the UK, USA and China, to assist us in assessing 
and challenging the assumptions and judgements made by the 
Directors and in assessing specific local tax issues. In assessing 
the Directors’ assumptions in determining provisions for transfer 
pricing and other exposures, we have used both our own tax  OTHER INFORMATION
139 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OTHER INFORMATION
specialists’ knowledge of recent tax cases and, where available, 
external data on the pattern of recent local tax settlements. In 
assessing the level of deferred tax balances recognised in the 
statement of financial position we compared the assumptions 
used in respect of future taxable income to the Group’s long-
term forecasts for the relevant countries. We challenged the 
Group’s long-term forecasts by evaluating the assumptions and 
methodologies used as well as checking for consistency against 
forecasts used to support the recoverable amount of goodwill. 
In particular, we considered the assumptions relating to the 
forecast revenue growth and profit margins in the relevant 
countries using externally derived data and our own 
assessments in relation to key inputs. We also assessed the 
adequacy of the Group’s related disclosures in note 6. 
Carrying amount of the customer claims provision: 
£18.5m (2014: £6.8m)
Refer to page 79 (Audit & Risk Committee Report), page 96 
(accounting policy) and page 113 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits 
incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The omission 
of one or more significant claim from the customer claims 
provision and the judgement involved in estimating the 
amounts included for an individual claim is considered a key 
audit risk due to the large number of subsidiaries and 
geographically diverse operations of the Group. For the various 
customer claims identified and reported across the Group, and 
those acquired as a result of the acquisition of PSI, the 
determination of the required provision amount, if any, is 
inherently subjective due to the range of potential outcomes 
and the uncertainty around its resolution. 
Our response – Our procedures included: challenging the 
completeness of the Group’s monitoring of claims by assessing 
the process by which claims across the Group are reported  
and collated for the Group Claims Summary; assessing the 
completeness of claims reported by local management for 
inclusion in the Group’s Claims Summary, based on a 
comparison with claims identified at a subsidiary level by 
component auditors; assessing the historical accuracy of the 
Group in identification of claims and inclusion thereof in the 
Claims Summary; obtaining formal confirmations from the 
Group’s lawyers in respect of key claims in the last 24 months 
as well as legal due diligence reports performed for the 
acquisition of PSI, in order to assess the status of any legal 
claims which the Group is dealing with and whether all 
potential exposures have been identified; and, challenging  
the key assumptions made by the Directors in calculating the 
provision based on our assessment of the historical accuracy  
of the Group’s estimates and assumptions in previous periods 
and in consideration of the relevant insurance cover and 
relevant accounting standards. We also assessed the adequacy 
of the Group’s related disclosures in notes 13 and 22.
3  Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 
set at £14.4m, determined with reference to a benchmark of 
Group loss before tax for continuing operations normalised to 
exclude this year’s impairment charge disclosed on the face  
of the income statement as part of separately disclosed items, 
(being a profit of £281.7m), of which it represents 5.1%, 
reflecting industry consensus levels. (2014: 6.5% of group profit 
before tax).
We reported to the Audit & Risk Committee any corrected and 
uncorrected identified misstatements in excess of £0.5m (2014: 
£1m), in addition to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
The Group has over 45 reporting components, of which we 
subjected 34 (2014: 32) to audits for group reporting purposes, 
and 3 (2014:1) to specified risk-focused audit procedures. The 
latter was not individually financially significant enough to 
require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present 
specific individual risks that needed to be addressed. These 
procedures covered 83% (2014: 81%) of Group revenue, 91% 
(2014: 83%) of the total profits and losses that made up group 
profit before tax and 87% (2014: 78%) of Group total assets. 
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an 
aggregated level to re-examine our assessment that there were 
no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks 
detailed above and the information to be reported back. The 
Group team approved each component materiality, which 
ranged from £0.1m to £4.6m (2014: £0.1m to £4.5m) having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across 
the components. The audits and specified risk-focused audit 
procedures for group reporting purposes were performed by 
component auditors with the rest of the work being performed 
by the Group team. The Group team visited three locations in 
the year: UK, US and China. Telephone meetings were also held 
with these component auditors and certain others that were 
not physically visited. At these meetings, the findings reported 
to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group team was then performed 
by the component auditor. 
4   Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements. OTHER INFORMATION INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 140
Other Information
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members  
of Intertek Group plc only continued
5  We have nothing to report on the disclosures of 
principal risks 
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ long-term viability statement on page 39, 
concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based 
on that, the Directors’ assessment and expectations of the 
Group continuing in operation over the 5 years to 2020; or 
• the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6  We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you  
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit,  
we have identified other information in the annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge  
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact,  
or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy; or
• the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk 
Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 82 and 39, in 
relation to going concern and longer term viability; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
54 to 55, relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of  
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on  
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report 
as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we  
have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
STEPHEN WARDELL
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
1 March 2016 OTHER INFORMATION
141 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OTHER INFORMATION
Shareholder and corporate information
SHAREHOLDERS’ ENQUIRIES
Any shareholder with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should, in the first instance, contact our Registrar, Equiniti, 
using the address on this page. 
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by 
email each time the Company distributes documents, instead 
of receiving a paper version of such documents. Registering 
for electronic communication is very straightforward and can 
be done via Shareview, at www.shareview.co.uk. Shareview  
is Equiniti’s suite of online services that helps shareholders  
to manage their holdings and gives access to a wide range  
of useful information. 
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive confirmation that a request has been registered. Should 
you wish to change your mind or request a paper version of any 
documents in the future, you may do so by contacting the 
Registrar by email or by post. 
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding 
details, submit a proxy vote for shareholder meetings, complete 
a change of address and provide dividend mandates online. 
Shareholders can also find out what to do if a share certificate 
is lost, as well as download forms in respect of share transfers. 
SHAREGIFT
If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, 
you may want to consider donating it to ShareGift. The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation 
scheme. Details of the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org 
T: +44 (0) 20 7930 3737
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION
Information on the Company’s share price is available from  
the investor pages of www.intertek.com.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Financial year end 31 December 2015
Results announced 2 March 2016
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 19 May 2016
Record date for final dividend 20 May 2016
Annual General Meeting  25 May 2016
Final dividend payable 3 June 2016
Interim results announced 1 August 2016
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 29 September 2016
Record date for interim dividend 30 September 2016
Interim dividend payable 14 October 2016
All future dates are indicative and subject to change.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 (0)20 7396 3400
REGISTRARS
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T: 0371 384 2653 (UK)*
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
*  Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
AUDITORS
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
T: +44 (0)20 7311 1000
BROKERS
J.P.Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
T: +44 (0) 20 7588 2828
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 (0)20 7774 1000
REGISTERED OFFICE
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 (0)20 7396 3400
F: +44 (0)20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 04267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK OTHER INFORMATION INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 142
Other Information
Global Reporting Initiative Index G4
Profile disclosures Inclusion Location Comments
Strategy & analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation ✔ p.16-20
G4-2 A description of key impacts, risks and opportunities ✔ p.39-45
Organisational profile
G4-3 Name of the organisation ✔ p.1
G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services ✔ p.4
G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters ✔ p.141
G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates ✔ p.3
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form ✔ p.141
G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served  
and types of customers/beneficiaries)
✔ p.4-11
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation ✔ p.3
G4-10 The total number of employees by employment contract and gender ✔ p.48
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 
structure or owners
✔ p.2-3 & 86
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial 
statements or equivalent documents.
✔ p.129-132 Note 23
G4-18 Process for defining report content ✔ p.80 Fair, balanced and understandable 
process
G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining  
report content
✔ p.61 & 81
G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the 
organisation
✔ p.61 & 81
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,  
boundary or measurement methods applied in the report
✔ p.61 & 81
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-26 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance body
✔ p.49
G4-27 Report key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 
engagement
✔ p.62
Report profile
G4-28 Reporting period ✔ – 1 January – 31 December
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report ✔ – 2014 Annual Report
G4-30 Reporting cycle ✔ – Annual
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ✔ p.141
G4-33 External assurance for the report ✔ p.138-140
G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics ✔ p.16-20 
& 46-51
Governance 
G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees  
under the highest governance body
✔ p.61
G4-35 Process of delegation of economic, environmental and social  
topics from the highest governance body to senior executives  
and other employees
✔ p.47
G4-38 Composition of governance bodies ✔ p.56-58
G4-39 Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body ✔ p.56
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance  
body and its committees
✔ p.83-84
G4-41 Process to ensure conflicts of interests are avoided and managed ✔ p.59
G4-42 Development, approval, updating of purpose, values and mission ✔ p.16-20 
G4-44 Evaluation of Board of Directors performance ✔ p.60-61
G4-45 Role of Board of Directors in identification and management of impacts ✔ p.78-82
G4-46 Reviewing effectiveness of risk management of economic, social and 
environmental topics 
✔ p.78-82 OTHER INFORMATION
143 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OTHER INFORMATION
Global Reporting Initiative Index G4
Profile disclosures Inclusion Location Comments
G4-47 Frequency of review of risks and opportunities ✔ p.79
G4-48 Review and approval of sustainability report ✔ p.51
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Board of Directors ✔ p.59 & 82
G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns ✔ p.49
G4-51 Remuneration policies ✔ p.64-65
G4-52 Determination of remuneration ✔ p.70
G4-53 Results on remuneration policies and proposal ✔ p.66
Ethics and integrity 
G4-56 Values, principles, standards and codes of ethics ✔ p.49
G4-57 Mechanism for seeking advice on ethical behaviour ✔ p.49
G4-58 Whistleblowing hotline and escalation ✔ p.49
Specific profile disclosures
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ✔ p.3
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations ✔ p.122-125 Note 16
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management  
hired from the local community at significant level of the organisation
P p.48 Description of employment policies 
and practices
EN3 Direct energy consumption ✔ p.50
EN4 Indirect energy consumption ✔ p.50
EN5 Energy intensity ratio P p.50
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy based 
products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 
result of these initiatives 
P p.50 Description of some of the services 
provided to clients
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions 
achieved
P p.50
EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO 2 equivalent ✔ p.50
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ✔ p.50 Our environment
EN18 Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio P p.50 Some initiatives identified
HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective  
actions taken
P p.49 Description of employment policies 
and practices
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes,  
including whether it is specified in collective agreements 
✔ – Minimum notice periods,  
where applicable, are governed  
by local law
LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism,  
and number of work-related fatalities
P p.49 Data on rates of injuries  
and work-related fatalities
LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support 
the continued employability of employees assist them in managing 
career endings
P p.48 Number of courses and number of 
courses undertaken by employees
LA12 Employees according to gender and global region P p.48 
SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 
engagement, impact assessments and development programmes
P p.51 Description of activities undertaken
SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ✔ p.49 Professional conduct
SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ✔ p.49 Professional conduct
SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ✔ p.49
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  
politicians and related institutions by country
✔ p.86 ‘Political Donations’
‘P’ indicates partial reporting. The above index indicates the page references for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index G4. Designed and produced by 
Printed by CPI Colour
This Report is printed on material derived from sustainable sources, and printed using vegetable based  
inks. Both the manufacturing paper mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) chain-of-custody certified. CPI Colour  
is also a Carbon Neutral Printing Company and reduces its CO
2
 omissions to net zero in accordance  
with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. This carbon offsetting supports the Uchindile Mapanda reforestation 
programme in Tanzania, an environmental project to establish commercial forests at two locations in Africa.
This Report is recyclable and Bio-degradable. If you have finished with this document and no longer wish  
to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. 
Thank you. Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0)20 7396 3400
f: +44 (0)20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
Offering a broad range of certification and 
accreditation marks accepted in markets 
around the world. Intertek’s mark of quality.
Intertek Group plc Annual report 2015
