 ITE Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Introduction
ITE is one of the world’s leading organisers 
of international trade exhibitions and 
conferences, specialising in emerging markets.
CONTENTS
Strategic report
IFC  Introduction 
01 Highlights 2015
02 Business overview
04  Chairman’s statement 
06 Market overview
08 Business model
10 Our strategy
20 Chief Executive’s statement
24  Divisional trading summary
32 Chief Financial Officer’s statement
36 Environmental impact
37 Corporate social responsibility
Governance
38 Board of Directors 
40 Corporate governance report
43 Directors’ report
45 Directors’ responsibilities statement
46 Audit Committee report
49 Risk Committee report
52 Nomination Committee report
53 Remuneration Committee report
55 Directors’ Remuneration report
Financial statements
70  Independent auditors’ report
76 Consolidated Income Statement 
77  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
78  Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
80  Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
81  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
82 Net debt reconciliation
83  Notes to the consolidated accounts 
120 Company Balance Sheet 
121 Notes to the Company accounts 
127 Shareholder information
128  Directors, advisors and 
other information
Improve
ITE’s existing positions of market 
leadership are founded on its ability to 
generate international sales, its local 
office infrastructure, the quality of its 
exhibitions and its long-standing 
relationships with venues. 
PG 12
Expand
We are constantly looking to expand 
our services into new geographies and 
industry sectors through acquisition, 
launches and the proliferation of existing 
brands into regions with sufficient 
customer demand and growth potential.
PG 14
Brand
ITE has established strong brand 
identity in certain exhibition sectors. 
ITE aims to ensure that new launches 
and acquisitions are aligned with 
existing brands in these sectors. 
PG 16
People
ITE is aware that its success is dependent 
on its people. As such, ITE is committed 
to investing in staff development 
throughout the Group and in particular, 
the management team that supports 
growing events and the continued 
expansion of the business.
PG 18 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
01
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Headline pre-tax proﬁt £m 
2015 47 .2
60.3
59.4
53.0
51.4
2014
2013
2012
2011
Revenue £m 
2015 135.8
174.8
192.3
172.3
155.5
2014
2013
2012
2011
Headline diluted earnings per share pence
2
 
2015 15.3
20.2
19.3
16.9
16.6
2014
2013
2012
2011
Free cash ﬂow £m 
2015 28. 1
38.9
55.2
44.1
46.2
2014
2013
2012
2011
Highlights
2015
1	 Headline	pre-tax	profit	is	defined	as	profit	on	ordinary	activities	before	taxation,	amortisation	of	acquired	intangible	assets,	impairment	
of	goodwill,	profits	or	losses	arising	on	disposal	of	Group	undertakings,	transaction	costs	on	completed	and	pending	acquisitions	&	
disposals,	tax	on	income	from	associates	&	joint	ventures,	gains	or	losses	on	the	revaluation	of	contingent	consideration,	gains	or	losses	
on	the	revaluation	of	put	option	liabilities	over	non-controlling	interests,	and	imputed	interest	charges	on	discounted	put	option	
liabilities	–	see	note	6	for	details.
2	 Headline	diluted	earnings	per	share	is	calculated	using	profit	attributable	to	equity	holders	of	the	parent	before	amortisation	of	
acquired	intangible	assets,	impairment	of	goodwill,	profits	or	losses	arising	on	disposal	of	Group	undertakings,	transaction	costs	on	
completed	and	pending	acquisitions	&	disposals,	gains	or	losses	on	the	revaluation	of	contingent	consideration,	gains	or	losses	on	the	
revaluation	of	put	option	liabilities	over	non-controlling	interests,	and	imputed	interest	charges	on	discounted	put	option	liabilities –	
see note	10	for	details.
OPERATING  
COUNTRIES
20
GLOBAL  
EVENTS HELD
240
M
2
 SOLD (000s)  
 
61 3 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
02
Business overview
Our regions
OPERATING  
COUNTRIES
20
M
2
 SOLD 
(000S)
613
EVENTS HELD 
240 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
n Russia
ITE offices 
Moscow, St Petersburg, Novosibirsk, 
Krasnodar, Ekaterinburg 
Key sectors 
Construction, Food, Travel, 
Transport & Logistics, Oil & Gas
313
m
2
 sold (000s) 
(2014: 380)
72.1
Revenue (£m) 
(2014: 102.9)
393
Number of staff 
(2014: 444)
 Divisional review page 26
n Asia
ITE offices 
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hong 
Kong (x2), Kuala Lumpur (x2), Jakarta, 
Dubai, New Delhi, Mumbai
Key sectors 
Construction, Coatings, 
Metalworking, Beauty
22
m
2
 sold (000s) 
(2014: 32.5)
3.9
Revenue (£m) 
(2014: 5.7)
96
Number of staff 
(2014: 85)
 Divisional review page 30
n Central Asia
ITE offices 
Almaty, Astana, Baku, Tashkent, 
Bishkek, Ashgabat
Key sectors 
Construction, Oil & Gas, Food, Travel
83
m
2
 sold (000s) 
(2014: 103)
27.2
Revenue (£m) 
(2014: 33.5)
172
Number of staff 
(2014: 176)
 Divisional review page 28
n Rest of the World
ITE offices 
London, Huddersfield, Hamburg,  
Utrecht, Cape Town, Newark
Key sectors 
Fashion, Oil & Gas, Transport & Logistics
48
m
2
 sold (000s) 
(2014: 42.8)
14.7
Revenue (£m) 
(2014: 11.6)
209
Number of staff 
(2014: 184)
 Divisional review page 31
n Eastern & Southern Europe
ITE offices 
Istanbul, Kiev, Warsaw, Poznan 
Key sectors 
Construction, Travel, Beauty
147
m
2
 sold (000s) 
(2014: 174)
17.9
Revenue (£m) 
(2014: 21.1)
157
Number of staff 
(2014: 175)
 Divisional review page 29 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04
Revenue £m 
2015 135.8
174.8
192.3
172.3
155.5
2014
2013
2012
2011
Chairman’s
statement
DIVIDEND  
PER SHARE
7.4p
“The Group’s results demonstrate 
the resilience of its business model to 
challenging trading circumstances.”
Marco Sodi Chairman ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Group	performance
ITE	Group	plc	has	reported	revenues	of	
£136	million	and	headline	profits	before	
tax	of	£47	million.	The	two	major	themes	
running	through	this	year	have	been	
the	impact	of	the	fall	in	the	oil	price	on	
the	oil	dependant	economies	where	
we	operate,	and	the	Group’s	ongoing	
diversification	of	its	business.	The	
lower	oil	price	has	caused	a	significant	
slowdown	in	economic	activity	in	some	
of	the	key	countries	in	which	we	operate	
and	has	also	led	to	a	devaluation	of	their	
currencies	against	Sterling.	At	the	same	
time,	the	Group	has	continued	to	diversify	
both	organically	and	through	acquisition	
into	other	geographies.	During	2015,	
three	substantial	acquisitions	have	been	
completed	and,	as	a	result,	the	Group	has	
stronger	businesses	in	Asia	and	Turkey	
and	has	established	a	first	time	presence	
in	Africa,	a	new	geography	for	ITE.	These	
proactive	changes	have	given	the	Group	
a	better	geographic	balance	between	
its	historic	Russian-CIS	businesses,	and	
other	leading	emerging	markets.	Looking	
forward,	Russia	now	accounts	for	circa	
40%	of	ITE’s	business	(2014:	51%).
The	Group	has	made	significant	progress	
during	the	year	in	developing	its	business	
by	adding	to	its	portfolio	of	market-
leading	events	in	target	industry	sectors.	
Over	the	course	of	the	year	the	Transport	
&	Logistics	portfolio	has	been	enhanced	
by	the	additions	of	Eurasia	Rail	in	Turkey	
and	the	international	Breakbulk	series	
of	events.	In	the	Oil	&	Gas	portfolio	the	
Group	acquired	Africa	Oil	Week	which	
serves	the	upstream	industry	and	is	the	
leading	event	for	exploration	of	future	oil	
and	gas	reserves	in	Africa.	Post-year	end	
the	Group	has	announced	the	exercise	
of	its	call	option	in	its	Indian	associate,	
ABEC,	taking	its	holding	to	60%,	making	
ITE	the	leading	private	organiser	in	the	
Indian	exhibition	industry	as	well	as	
enhancing	its	Construction	portfolio.	
Overall,	these	results	demonstrate	the	
resilience	of	the	Group’s	business	model	
to	challenging	trading	circumstances	
in	some	of	its	most	important	
geographies	and	its	continued	focus	
on	the	execution	of	its	strategy.
In	this	stronger	biennial	year,	headline	
diluted	earnings	per	share	was	15.3p	
(2014:	20.2p).	Reported	pre-tax	profit	
was	£31.5	million	(2014:	£41.5	million)	
and	fully	diluted	earnings	per	share	was	
10.4p	(2014:	13.8p).	The	Group	finished	
the	year	with	net	debt	of	£52	million	
(2014:	£15	million),	after	investing	£56	
million	on	acquisitions	during	the	year.
Board	and	management
There	were	no	changes	to	the	Board	
during	the	financial	year.	However,	
on 14	October	2015,	Neil	Jones,	our	
Chief	Financial	Officer	for	the	last	seven	
years,	announced	that	he	will	be	leaving	
the	Group.	Neil	will	remain	at	ITE	until	
31	January	2016	in	order	to	close	the	
current	financial	year	end,	and	to	ensure	
a	smooth	handover.	The	Board	has	
commenced	a	search	for	his	successor	
and	a	further	announcement	in	relation	
to	a	new	Chief	Financial	Officer	will	be	
made	in	due	course.	On	behalf	of	the	
Board,	I	would	like	to	thank	Neil	for	his	
contribution	over	the	last	few	years;	his	
knowledge,	drive	and	positive	attitude	
have	made	him	an	excellent	member	of	
the	executive	management	team	and	we	
wish	him	well	in	his	future	endeavours.
ITE	is	a	people	business	and	its	success	is	
based	upon	the	hard	work	and	loyalty	of	
its	staff	worldwide.	The	Group	has	over	
1,000	employees	conducting	its	business	
in	32	offices	in	20	different	countries.	
We	have	an	increasingly	diverse	mix	of	
cultures	with	an	additional	250	staff	in	
Asia	employed	via	associate	business	
structures.	Almost	50%	of	our	staff	have	
been	employees	of	ITE	for	more	than	five	
years	and	63%	are	participants	in	one	of	
our	equity	schemes.	As	Chairman	and	on	
behalf	of	the	Board,	I	would	like	to	thank	
and	acknowledge	the	contribution	of	all	
of	ITE’s	employees	to	this	year’s	result	
and	especially	those	staff	in	Ukraine	
and	Russia	who	have	worked	extremely	
hard	under	difficult	circumstances.	
ITE’s	Board	recognises	that	good	
corporate	governance	is	in	the	long-
term	interests	of	the	Group	and	we	
are	conscious	of	our	responsibilities	
for	setting	values	that	underpin	the	
Group	culture.	As	Chairman,	I	am	
mindful	of	my	personal	responsibility	
for	leading	the	Board	and	ensuring	it	
operates	diligently	and	effectively.	
Dividend
This	year	the	interim	dividend	was	held	
at	2.5p	and	the	proposed	final	dividend	
remains	at	4.9p,	making	a	full	dividend	for	
the	year	of	7.4p	(2014:	7.4p).	This reflects	
the	Board’s	confidence	in	the	quality	
and	potential	of	the	business.	The	final	
dividend	is	proposed	for	payment	
on	8	February	2016	to	shareholders	
on	the	register	on	8	January	2016.
Outlook
Trading	conditions	in	Russia	and	more	
recently	the	Central	Asian	states,	continue	
to	be	challenging.	Whilst	the	Group	has	
seen	a	stabilisation	in	Russian	trading	
conditions,	the	impact	of	lower	oil	prices	
and	domestic	currency	weakness	is	
reflected	in	our	forward	bookings.	As	
anticipated,	the	H1	bookings	for	2016	
will	be	more	impacted	than	H2,	as	last	
year’s	comparatives	for	H1	only	partially	
reflect	the	current	trading	conditions	
in	Russia	and	Central	Asia.	The	Group’s	
other	regions,	which	now	account	for	
over	40%	of	ITE’s	business,	are	trading	
well.	At	27	November	2015,	Group	
revenues	already	booked	for	FY2016	
were	£77	million	representing	circa	57%	
of	market	expectations	for	the	full	year.	
On	a	like-for-like	basis	these	revenues	
are	circa	10%	behind	this	time	last	year.	
Although	ITE’s	ongoing	geographical	
diversification	is	reducing	its	dependency	
on	Russia,	the	Group’s	results	remain	
sensitive	to	its	economic	climate	and	
to	the	oil	price.	However,	its	strong	
market	positions	mean	the	Group	is	
well positioned	to	benefit	from	any	future	
improvement	in	the	Russian	economy.	
Elsewhere,	ITE	has	good	growth	prospects	
in	its	other	markets	and	its	portfolio	of	
leading	events	continues	to	perform	well.	
Management	will	continue	to	monitor	
and	review	the	Group’s	cost	base	to	
ensure	that	it	has	the	most	efficient	
structure	and	will	further	diversify	the	
Group’s	business	as	well	as	strengthen	
its	industry	verticals.	The	Group	has	a	
robust	balance	sheet,	good	operating	
cash	flow	and	the	Board	has	confidence	
in	the	Group’s	future	prospects.	
Marco Sodi Chairman
30	November	2015
Note
Where	used,	like-for-like	measures	are	stated	
on a constant	currency	basis	adjusted	to	exclude	
acquisitions	impacting	for	the	first	time,	event	
timing	differences	and	biennial	events. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
06
Market overview
The exhibitions market is a highly attractive sector for several reasons:
 → High margins
 → Excellent cash flow characteristics
 → Resilient revenues
 → Opportunities for consolidation
 → Good growth prospects
GLOBAL  
EXHIBITION MARKET
VALUE
US$29bn
The	global	exhibition	market	was	
estimated	to	be	worth	circa	US$29	billion	
in	2014,	a	4%	increase	on	2013.
The	graph	to	the	right	(fig	1)	sets	out	the	
distribution	of	the	world’s	exhibition	
business	and	shows	that	developed	
markets	continue	to	account	for	the	
majority	of	the	global	market,	with	the	
US	alone	comprising	over	40%.	However,	
emerging	markets	have	continued	to	
increase	their	share	of	the	global	market,	
to	circa	22%	in	2014	compared	to	circa	
15%	five	years	ago.	Russia,	Turkey	and	
the	CIS	countries	–	ITE’s	core	market	
areas	–	account	for	approximately	
6%	of	the	global	market,	whilst	Asian	
markets	(China,	India	and	South	East	
Asia)	account	for	approximately	10%.	
The	graph	to	the	right	(fig	2)	illustrates	
that	emerging	markets	grew	more	
quickly	than	developed	markets	during	
2014.	This	is	a	trend	which	is	expected	
to continue	over	the	next	few	years,	with	
average	annual	growth	of	over	7%	in ITE’s	
core	and	target	markets	(Russia,	Turkey,	
China	and	India).	China,	in	particular,	
is	expected	to	replace	Germany	as	the	
world’s	second	largest	market	by	2017.	 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Fig 1. Market size and growth by market, 2014 ($bn)
United States
Germany
United Kingdom
China
France
Italy
Russia
Brazil
GCC
Hong Kong
Turkey
Other
Mexico
India
Source: AMR analysis
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
 1.60
 2.13
 0.87
 0.44
 1.61
12.33
 0.80
 1.86
 0.66
 0.29
 0.36
 0.85
 0.41
4.80
Fig 3. Exhibition market as a performance of GDP by market, 2014 (%)
Hong Kong
China
Germany
Italy
Brazil
GCC
United Kingdom
India
Mexico
France
United States
Turkey
Russia
Source: AMR analysis Average = 0.053%
 0.034%
 0.018%
 0.065%
 0.056%
 0.055%
 0. 152%
 0.014%
 0.041%
 0.028%
 0.046%
 0.051%
 0.055%
 0.077%
Russia
China
Mexico
France
Brazil
India
United Kingdom
Turkey
Germany
GCC
United States
Italy
Hong Kong
Source: AMR analysis
-10 -5 0 5 10 15
Average mature markets Average emerging markets
 1.09%
 7 .55%
 9.87%
7 .85% 
10.40% 
 - 7 .72%
 8.34%
 2.70%
 2.81%
 2.98%
 5.66%
 2.69%
 4.69%
Fig 2. Growth by market, 2013–2014 (%)
Data	shows	that	those	organisers	 
with	the	greatest	exposure	to	emerging	
markets	typically	have	higher	revenue	
growth	rates	and	higher	operating	
margins	source:	AMR.
A	metric	commonly	used	to	illustrate	
future	growth	prospects	is	the	share	
that an	exhibitions	market	has	of	GDP.	
As the	graph	to	the	right	(fig	3)	shows,	
based	on	this	metric,	India	and	China	
have	the	most	substantial	growth	
potential	amongst	large	exhibition	
markets.	Growth	is	expected	to	be	
led	by both	price	increases,	on	the	
back	of	growing	professionalism	and	
increased	international	participation,	
and	square	metres	increases,	as	new	
venue	capacity	comes	on	stream.	Russia,	
China,	India	and Turkey	are	all	expected	
to	deliver	substantial	increases	in	venue	
capacity	in the	next	two	to	five	years.	
This	facilitates	market	growth	and	can	
also	be expected	to	put	downward	
pressure	on	venue	hire	costs.
ITE	was	the	sixth	largest	organiser	in	the	
world	by	revenue	in	2013,	and	the	third	
largest	in	emerging	markets.	ITE	remains	
the	largest	exhibition	organiser	in	Russia	
by	some	distance,	with	a	market	share	of	
around	20%.	Although	the	Russian	market	
has	been	impacted	by	currency	factors	
and	an	economic	slowdown,	there	are	
strong	drivers	for	growth	in	the	medium	
to	long	term.	These	include	strong	prices,	
a	highly	internationalised	outlook,	new	
venue	capacity	and	high	potential	for	
growth.	ITE’s	position	in	Central	Asian	
markets	is	even	stronger,	where	it	is	
the	dominant	international	exhibition	
organiser.	The	market	in	Turkey	is	more	
fragmented	but	ITE	retains	its	position	
as	the	leading	international	exhibition	
organiser,	with	6%	of	the	market.	China	is	
expected	to	grow	by	circa	8%	per	annum	
to	2019,	driven	by	market	improvements,	
price	increases,	venue	expansion	and	
growth	in	tier	two	and	three	locations.	
The	Chinese	market	is	also	fragmented,	
with	95%	of	tradeshows	organised	
by	local	entrepreneurs,	government	
bureaux	and	trade	associations.	
Together	these	factors	make	China	
an	attractive	region	for	expansion. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
08
Business model
Our flexible model enables us to 
leverage our brands and expertise into 
new and emerging markets.
Assets Approach
 → Leading brands
ITE’s	sector	brands	are	a	key	asset.	The	brands	have	been	
established	through	a	sustained	record	of	presenting	
high-quality	events	which	meet	customer	expectations.	
ITE events	serve	key	industries	including	Construction	&	
Interiors,	Oil	&	Gas,	Food	&	Drink,	Travel	&	Leisure,	Transport	
&	Logistics,	Security	&	Protection	and	Fashion	&	Beauty.
 → Regional expertise
ITE	has	an	extensive	office	network	in	the	territories	where	
our	events	are	held.	Staffed	by	highly	experienced	teams,	
this	network	ensures	that	we	remain	close	to	local	industry	
trends.	The	Group	has	32	offices	across	the	world,	each	of	
them	employing	almost	exclusively	local	staff.
 → International sales
ITE	has	an	extensive	network	of	international	sales	offices.	
Our	international	sales	teams	are	in	regular	communication	
with	key	industry	customers	in	our	sectors,	and	work	closely	
with	the	local	offices	who	organise	events.	This	network	
enables	the	Group	to	leverage	its	sales	into	new	markets.
Holistic approach
The	offices	of	the	Group	cooperate	in	a	holistic	way.	
Each office	sells	its	own	exhibitions,	but	participates	with	
equal	levels	of	commitment	in	the	exhibitions	organised	
by other	offices.	This	collaborative	approach	allows	us	
to share	knowledge	and	best	practice	across	sectors	
and geographies.
High-quality events
ITE	organises	high-quality	business-to-business	
events	of	an	international	standard	throughout	the	
20	countries	in	which	it	operates.	As	an	exhibition	
organiser,	ITE	hires	venues	at	which	it	stages	its	events	
and	markets	the	events	to	both	exhibitors	and	visitors.	
Exhibitions	and	conferences	provide	an	opportunity	
for	participants	from	national	and international	
companies	to	meet,	network	and	transact business.
OPERATING  
COUNTRIES
20 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Benefits
New and emerging markets
ITE	has	been	operating	in	emerging	markets	for	
over 20	years	and	its	experience	and	local	knowledge	
are	unique.	The	Group	is	focused	on	developing	its	
business	outside	of	its	historic	key	markets	in	Russia,	
with	recent	acquisitions	in	China,	India	and	Africa.
Emerging	markets	have	grown	more	quickly	than	
developed	markets	in	recent	years	and	this	trend	
is	expected	to	continue.	With	leading	positions	in	
important	sectors	for	emerging	markets,	such	as	
Food,	Energy	and	Transport	&	Logistics,	ITE	is	well	
positioned	to	benefit	from	this	growth	in	the	future.
 → Customers
The	exhibition	media	is	the	best	media	for	suppliers	to	
display	and	demonstrate	their	products	to	potential	buyers.	
This	is	particularly	powerful	in	emerging	and	developing	
markets	where	face-to-face	meetings	are	the	cultural	norm	
and	where	alternative	media,	B2B	publishing	and	online	
marketing	opportunities	are	less	developed.	
 → Employees
ITE’s	success	is	dependent	upon	its	people,	and	as	such	the	
Group	is	committed	to	investing	in	staff	development.	Staff	
are	encouraged	to	seize	career	development	opportunities	
and	a	number	of	our	employees	have	successfully	switched	
functions	and	offices.	As	a	result	of	this	focus	on	employees,	
staff	retention	rates	are	high,	with	almost	50%	of	employees	
having	been	with	the	business	for	at	least	five	years.
 → Investors
ITE’s	objective	is	to	create	sustainable	growth	in	headline	
earnings	per	share	by	creating	and	maintaining	positions	
of market	leadership	in	developing	markets.	Underpinning	
this	is	a	sound	financial	position	and	a	strong	and	
experienced	management	team.
GLOBAL  
EVENTS HELD
240 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
Our strategy
Strategic priorities Achievements
01
Improve
PG 12
Build and strengthen existing market leadership
ITE’s	existing	positions	of	market	leadership	are	founded	on	its	ability	to	generate	
international	sales,	its	recognised	brands,	its	local	office	infrastructure	and	its	
long-standing	relationships	with	venues.	To	strengthen	our	position,	we	know	that	
we	have	to	deliver	even	better	experiences,	services	and	results	for	our	customers.
The	Group	has	established	a	loyal	customer	base	and	a	
geographic	reach	which	is	increasingly	valuable	as	it	seeks	 
to	leverage	its	sales	into	new	markets.	In	2015	the	Group’s	
international	sales	offices	sold	105,000m
2
	which	represents	
circa	25%	of	the	Group’s	2015	revenues.
We	continue	to	develop	more	sophisticated	systems	to	 
measure	the	performance	and	effectiveness	of	our	events.	 
We	are	now	standardising	the	customer	research	programmes	
of	our	leading	events,	using	a	system	that	allows	us	to	
benchmark	performance	across	the	Group	and	the	wider	 
event	industry.	To	date,	our	average	visitor	and	exhibitor	 
Net	Promoter	Scores	are	7	and	10	points	respectively	higher	
than	the	industry	average.
02
Expand
PG 14
Leverage our business model into new markets 
and geographies
We	are	constantly	looking	to	expand	our	services	into	new	geographies	and	industry	
sectors	through	acquisition,	launches	and	the	proliferation	of	existing	brands	into	
regions	with	sufficient	customer	demand	and	growth	potential.
In	existing	markets	this	strategy	means	targeting	new	sectors	and	regions	in	which	
to	acquire	or	develop	businesses	where	there	is	potential	for	the	participation	of	
international	exhibitors.	In	new	markets,	ITE	is	targeting	the	development	of	
exhibition	businesses	where	there	is	clear	opportunity	for	strong	future	growth.
Acquisitions	during	the	year	included	the	global	Breakbulk	
series	of	Transport	&	Logistics	events;	Eurasia	Rail	in	Turkey;	 
an	entertainment	technology	event	in	India;	a	commercial	
transport	event	in	Russia	(joint	acquisition	with	Messe	
Frankfurt)	and	a	majority	stake	in	Africa	Oil	Week.	Our	global	
footprint	now	extends	to	the	United	States	and	South	Africa	
and	we	have	already	begun	to	expand	the	Breakbulk	series	into	
the	Middle	East.	We	have	also	successfully	launched	a	number	
of	events,	including	the	Istanbul	Water	Expo	which	debuted	at	
almost	2,000m
2
.
ITE’s	diversification	strategy	is	continuing	to	work	well	and	it	
remains	a	priority	to	create	more	geographical	balance	in	our	
business.	ITE	has	now	established	‘cornerstone’	businesses	in	
three	of	the	largest	emerging	markets	of	the	future	–	China,	
India	and	Africa.	Having	established	a	base	business	in	these	
geographies	much	of	the	Group’s	future	activity	will	focus	on	
developing	additional	scale	through	organic	development	and	
bolt-on	acquisitions	in	our	core	industries.	
03
Brand
PG 16
Grow and develop our portfolio of international 
brands
ITE	has	established	strong	brand	identity	in	certain	exhibition	sectors.	ITE	aims	 
to	ensure	that	new	launches	and	acquisitions	are	aligned	with	existing	brands	 
in	these	sectors.	ITE	is	also	working	to	enhance	and	extend	its	existing	brand	
identities,	as well	as	developing	brand	identities	in	other	sectors.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	industry	sector	expertise	to	
complement	our	well-established	global	network.	This	brings	 
us	even	closer	to	our	customers	and	allows	us	to	accelerate	 
the	progress	of	several	projects.	We	are	making	considerable	
headway	with	the	harmonisation	of	data	acquisition	and	
management	and	even	greater	consistency	with	event	
positioning,	promotion	and	presentation.	
During	the	year	we	launched	our	first	WorldBuild	product,	 
a	digital	product	directory	serving	the	global	architecture,	
building,	design	and	décor	industry.
We	also	developed	a	clear	new	brand	in	the	Transport	&	
Logistics space.
04
People
PG 18
Invest in the development of our management
We	have	a	flat	management	structure	with	the	expertise	and	experience	to	deliver	
high-quality,	customer-focused	events	whilst	running	an	agile	and	innovative	
business,	quick	to	seize	opportunities	and	adapt	to	market	conditions.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	management	team	and	 
refine	our	internal	structures	to	maximise	long-term	growth	
prospects.	The	Group’s	strategy	is	developed	through	our	
Senior	Management	Board	and	we	have	added	an	Operations	
Board	to	focus	on	product	and	business	development.
A	geographically	diverse	business	like	ours	places	a	critical	
importance	on	internal	communications	and	our	Employee	
Engagement	Survey	has	provided	many	useful	insights	into	 
the	information	that	our	colleagues	want	to	hear	about	–	and	
how	they	want	to	receive	it.	In	addition,	we	held	two	industry-
focused	global	management	meetings	in	the	last	year.	Our	Oil	&	
Gas	leaders	met	in	Istanbul	and	our	Transport	&	Logistics	team	
met	in	Brussels	following	Breakbulk	Europe	in	Antwerp. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Headline diluted earnings per share pence 
2015 15.3 
20.2
19.3
16.9
16.6
2014
2013
2012
2011
Strategic priorities Achievements
01
Improve
PG 12
Build and strengthen existing market leadership
ITE’s	existing	positions	of	market	leadership	are	founded	on	its	ability	to	generate	
international	sales,	its	recognised	brands,	its	local	office	infrastructure	and	its	
long-standing	relationships	with	venues.	To	strengthen	our	position,	we	know	that	
we	have	to	deliver	even	better	experiences,	services	and	results	for	our	customers.
The	Group	has	established	a	loyal	customer	base	and	a	
geographic	reach	which	is	increasingly	valuable	as	it	seeks	 
to	leverage	its	sales	into	new	markets.	In	2015	the	Group’s	
international	sales	offices	sold	105,000m
2
	which	represents	
circa	25%	of	the	Group’s	2015	revenues.
We	continue	to	develop	more	sophisticated	systems	to	 
measure	the	performance	and	effectiveness	of	our	events.	 
We	are	now	standardising	the	customer	research	programmes	
of	our	leading	events,	using	a	system	that	allows	us	to	
benchmark	performance	across	the	Group	and	the	wider	 
event	industry.	To	date,	our	average	visitor	and	exhibitor	 
Net	Promoter	Scores	are	7	and	10	points	respectively	higher	
than	the	industry	average.
02
Expand
PG 14
Leverage our business model into new markets 
and geographies
We	are	constantly	looking	to	expand	our	services	into	new	geographies	and	industry	
sectors	through	acquisition,	launches	and	the	proliferation	of	existing	brands	into	
regions	with	sufficient	customer	demand	and	growth	potential.
In	existing	markets	this	strategy	means	targeting	new	sectors	and	regions	in	which	
to	acquire	or	develop	businesses	where	there	is	potential	for	the	participation	of	
international	exhibitors.	In	new	markets,	ITE	is	targeting	the	development	of	
exhibition	businesses	where	there	is	clear	opportunity	for	strong	future	growth.
Acquisitions	during	the	year	included	the	global	Breakbulk	
series	of	Transport	&	Logistics	events;	Eurasia	Rail	in	Turkey;	 
an	entertainment	technology	event	in	India;	a	commercial	
transport	event	in	Russia	(joint	acquisition	with	Messe	
Frankfurt)	and	a	majority	stake	in	Africa	Oil	Week.	Our	global	
footprint	now	extends	to	the	United	States	and	South	Africa	
and	we	have	already	begun	to	expand	the	Breakbulk	series	into	
the	Middle	East.	We	have	also	successfully	launched	a	number	
of	events,	including	the	Istanbul	Water	Expo	which	debuted	at	
almost	2,000m
2
.
ITE’s	diversification	strategy	is	continuing	to	work	well	and	it	
remains	a	priority	to	create	more	geographical	balance	in	our	
business.	ITE	has	now	established	‘cornerstone’	businesses	in	
three	of	the	largest	emerging	markets	of	the	future	–	China,	
India	and	Africa.	Having	established	a	base	business	in	these	
geographies	much	of	the	Group’s	future	activity	will	focus	on	
developing	additional	scale	through	organic	development	and	
bolt-on	acquisitions	in	our	core	industries.	
03
Brand
PG 16
Grow and develop our portfolio of international 
brands
ITE	has	established	strong	brand	identity	in	certain	exhibition	sectors.	ITE	aims	 
to	ensure	that	new	launches	and	acquisitions	are	aligned	with	existing	brands	 
in	these	sectors.	ITE	is	also	working	to	enhance	and	extend	its	existing	brand	
identities,	as well	as	developing	brand	identities	in	other	sectors.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	industry	sector	expertise	to	
complement	our	well-established	global	network.	This	brings	 
us	even	closer	to	our	customers	and	allows	us	to	accelerate	 
the	progress	of	several	projects.	We	are	making	considerable	
headway	with	the	harmonisation	of	data	acquisition	and	
management	and	even	greater	consistency	with	event	
positioning,	promotion	and	presentation.	
During	the	year	we	launched	our	first	WorldBuild	product,	 
a	digital	product	directory	serving	the	global	architecture,	
building,	design	and	décor	industry.
We	also	developed	a	clear	new	brand	in	the	Transport	&	
Logistics space.
04
People
PG 18
Invest in the development of our management
We	have	a	flat	management	structure	with	the	expertise	and	experience	to	deliver	
high-quality,	customer-focused	events	whilst	running	an	agile	and	innovative	
business,	quick	to	seize	opportunities	and	adapt	to	market	conditions.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	management	team	and	 
refine	our	internal	structures	to	maximise	long-term	growth	
prospects.	The	Group’s	strategy	is	developed	through	our	
Senior	Management	Board	and	we	have	added	an	Operations	
Board	to	focus	on	product	and	business	development.
A	geographically	diverse	business	like	ours	places	a	critical	
importance	on	internal	communications	and	our	Employee	
Engagement	Survey	has	provided	many	useful	insights	into	 
the	information	that	our	colleagues	want	to	hear	about	–	and	
how	they	want	to	receive	it.	In	addition,	we	held	two	industry-
focused	global	management	meetings	in	the	last	year.	Our	Oil	&	
Gas	leaders	met	in	Istanbul	and	our	Transport	&	Logistics	team	
met	in	Brussels	following	Breakbulk	Europe	in	Antwerp.
ITE’s objective is to be recognised  
as the world’s leading trade event 
organiser in emerging markets by  
2020 and to deliver sustainable  
growth in headline earnings per share. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
01
Build and strengthen our existing market 
leadership
ITE’s existing positions of market 
leadership are founded on its ability  
to generate international sales, its  
local office infrastructure, the quality  
of its exhibitions and its long-standing 
relationships with venues. T o strengthen 
our position, we know that we have to 
deliver even better experiences, services 
and results for our customers.
The	Group	has	established	a	loyal	customer	base	and	a	geographic	
reach	which	is	increasingly	valuable	as	it	seeks	to leverage	its	sales	
into	new	markets.	In	2015	the	Group’s	international	sales	offices	
sold	105,000m
2
	which	represents	circa 25%	of	the	Group’s	
2015 revenues.
ITE’s	local	offices	continue	to	provide	a	competitive	advantage	
over other	international	exhibition	organisers	and	a	barrier	to	entry	
for	new	organisers	wishing	to	run	events.	ITE’s	local	offices	employ	
over	900	staff	and	during	the	year	further	steps	have	been	taken	to	
integrate	recently	acquired	offices	into	the	ITE	network.
Whilst	ITE’s	local	presence	gives	it	the	access	and	connections	to	
deliver	high-quality	visitors	to	our	customers,	we	know	that	we	
need	to	continue	to	deliver	improvements	in	the	quality	of	our	
exhibitions.	As	such,	we	continue	to	develop	more	sophisticated	
systems	to	measure	the	performance	and	effectiveness	of	
our events.	We	are	now	standardising	the	customer	research	
programmes	of	our	leading	events,	using	a	system	that	allows	
us to	benchmark	performance	across	the	Group	and	the	wider	
event	industry.	To	date,	our	average	visitor	and	exhibitor	Net	
Promoter	Scores	are	7	and	10	points	respectively	higher	than	
the industry	average.
The	Group	continues	to	maintain	its	historically	strong	
relationships	with	venues.	Most	of	ITE’s	major	events	have	
agreements	which	provide	for	venue	facilities	for	at	least	three	
years	ahead.	This	year	ITE	has	provided	further	funding	to	its	key	
venues	in	Moscow	and	Istanbul	in	return	for	rights	over	future	
venue	use	and	advantageous	pricing	arrangements	through	
long-term	agreements.	September	2015	also	saw	the	opening	
of ExpoGrad	Yug,	the	new	exhibition	centre	in	Krasnodar	which	
offers	28,000m
2
	of	high-quality	exhibition	space.
VISITOR  
SATISFACTION RATING  
(AVERAGE, OUT OF 5)
3.69
EXHIBITOR  
SATISFACTION RATING  
(AVERAGE, OUT OF 5)
3.62
Indian Expansion
A combination of organic growth and 
acquisitions means that in less than a 
decade, we have entered, developed 
and grown into India’s largest trade 
exhibition organiser.
 
In the last year, we have 
restructured the ITE management 
team in New Delhi and exercised an 
option to acquire a controlling 
share of the ABEC business 
in Mumbai.
 
With the Indian trade exhibition 
market yet to realise its full potential, 
we now occupy an outstanding position  
for accelerated future growth. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
15
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Net acquisition spend £m 
2015 56 
51 
26 
19 
47 
2014
2013
2012
2011
02
Expand into new sectors and geographies with 
potential for strong market positions
We are constantly looking to expand 
our services into new geographies and 
industry sectors through acquisition, 
launches and the proliferation of 
existing brands into regions with 
sufficient customer demand and 
growth potential.
In	existing	markets	this	strategy	means	targeting	
new sectors	and	regions	in	which	to	acquire	or	develop	
businesses	where	there	is	potential	for	the	participation	
of	international	exhibitors.	In	new	markets,	ITE	is	targeting	
the	development	of	exhibition	businesses	where	there	
is	clear	opportunity	for	strong	future	growth.
The	Group	has	made	significant	progress	during	the	year	in	
developing	its	business	by	adding	to	its	portfolio	of	market-
leading	events	in	target	industry	sectors.	Over	the	course	
of	the	year	the	Transport	&	Logistics	portfolio	has	been	
enhanced	by	the	additions	of	the	international	Breakbulk	
series	of	events	and	Eurasia	Rail	in	Turkey.	The	Breakbulk	
portfolio	of	exhibitions	and	publications	serve	the	Transport	
&	Logistics	market	for	large-scale	project	equipment,	and	
are	held	annually	in	Houston,	Antwerp,	Shanghai	and	
Johannesburg.	The	portfolio	provides	exciting	opportunities	
for	the	Group	and	is	performing	in	line	with	expectations.	
Eurasia	Rail	is	the	leading	railway	infrastructure	show	in	
Turkey	and	extends	our	Transport	&	Logistics	industry	sector	
into	rail	transportation	and	geographically	into	Turkey.
Despite	the	recent	weakness	in	the	oil	price,	the	event	remains	
resilient	and	we	expect	it	to	recover	and	exceed	its	previous	
levels	when	oil	prices	return	to	more	normal	levels.
In	the	Oil	&	Gas	portfolio	the	Group	added	Africa	Oil	Week	
which	serves	the	upstream	industry	and	is	the	leading	event	
for exploration	of	future	oil	and	gas	reserves	in	Africa.	Africa	Oil	
Week	is	the	annual	Oil	&	Gas	confex	held	in	Cape	Town.	It	is	the	
longest-running	and	most	prominent	event	held	in	Africa	for	
the	continent’s	growing	oil,	gas	and	energy	industry.
Post-year	end	the	Group	announced	the	exercise	of	its	
call option	in	its	Indian	associate,	ABEC,	taking	its	holding	
to 60%	and	making	ITE	the	leading	private	organiser	in	
the Indian	exhibition	industry	as	well	as	enhancing	its	
Construction	portfolio.
These	acquisitions,	whilst	being	earnings-enhancing	in	their	
own	right,	also	create	significant	opportunities	for	the	Group	by	
providing	access	to	new	marketplaces	and	offering	synergies	
across	industry	verticals.	They	also	give	the	Group	a	better	
geographic	balance	between	its	historical	Russian-CIS	
businesses	and	other	leading	emerging	markets.
BUSINESS  
ACQUISITIONS  
IN THE YEAR
5 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
03
Enhance and improve our exhibition brands
ITE has established strong brand 
identity in certain exhibition sectors. 
ITE aims to ensure that new launches 
and acquisitions are aligned with 
existing brands in these sectors.  
ITE is also working to enhance and 
extend its existing brand identities,  
as well as developing brand identities  
in other sectors.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	industry	sector	expertise	to	
complement	our	well-established	global	network.	This	brings	 
us	even	closer	to	our	customers	and	allows	us	to	accelerate	 
the	progress	of	several	projects.
We	have	continued	to	develop	our	industry	vertical	groupings.	
We	are	making	considerable	headway	with	the	harmonisation	of	
data	acquisition	and	management	and	even	greater	consistency	
with	event	positioning,	promotion	and	presentation.	The	Group	
has	also	continued	its	series	of	brand development	projects	
which	have	covered	all	aspects	of product	quality,	naming,	
character,	tone-of-voice	and	graphic	designs	associated	with	
events	in	the	Group’s	largest	portfolios.	We	also	launched	our	
first	WorldBuild	product,	a digital	product	directory	serving	the	
global	architecture,	building,	design	and	décor	industry.
The	acquisitions	made	during	the	year	have	also	strengthened	
our	existing	positions	of	sector	expertise.	The	additions	of	the	
Breakbulk	portfolio	of	events,	in	particular,	alongside	Eurasia	
Rail	have	substantially	strengthened	our	global	offering	in	
the Transport	&	Logistics	sector.	This	provides	a	platform	
for further	launches	and	we	have	already	begun	to	expand	
the Breakbulk	series	into	the	Middle	East.	Meanwhile,	the	
acquisition	of	Africa	Oil	Week	is	complementary	to	our	strong	
product	base	in	the	Energy	sector.
Digitally Enhanced
The world’s largest portfolio of trade events 
in the field of building and interiors 
provides us with considerable sector 
knowledge and databases of buyers 
and sellers.
 
A trade event is normally open 
for four days per year, but with our 
new digital product directory, 
WorldBuild365, we can connect 
business all day, every day.
 
WorldBuild365 enhances the services 
that we provide for our existing 
visitors and exhibitors, as well as enabling 
us to reach many new suppliers and 
buyers within the industry.
NEW  
DIGITAL 
OFFERING
WorldBuild365 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
19
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
04
Invest in developing our people
ITE is aware that its success is 
dependent on its people. As such,  
ITE is committed to investing in staff 
development throughout the Group 
and, in particular, the management 
team that supports growing events  
and the continued expansion of  
the business.
Job	satisfaction	and	staff	retention	have	always	been	
strengths associated	with	ITE.	The	Group	encourages	staff	
to seize	career	development	opportunities.	Staff	can	switch	
job functions	if	they	possess	the	necessary	skills	and	drive	to	
succeed	in	another	role.	Others	move	offices,	relocating	to	a	
new	city	or	country	in	order	to	progress.	There	are	no	fewer	
rewards	for	those	who	choose	to	stick	to	their	profession	
of choice,	because	working	for	ITE	provides	the	variety	of	
products,	markets	and	projects	for	people	to	constantly	
develop	and	test	their	talents.
ITE	has	high	rates	of	employee	retention	in	its	offices,	with	
almost	half	of	the	Group	employees	having	served	in	the	
business	for	five	years	or	more.	Key	to	this	commitment	is	
widespread	equity	ownership	–	currently	63%	of	staff	
participate	in	some	form	of	equity	scheme.
We	continue	to	strengthen	our	management	team	and	 
refine	our	internal	structures	to	maximise	long-term	growth	
prospects.	The	Group’s	strategy	is	developed	through	our	
Senior	Management	Board	and	we	have	added	an	Operations	
Board	to	focus	on	product	and	business	development.
Throughout	the	Group	we	are	focused	on	encouraging	
potential.	Current	initiatives	include	a	developing	talent	
management	programme	focusing	on	our	best	employees,	
setting	out	development	plans	to	enable	them	to	grow	
into future	leaders,	a	Leadership	Development	Programme	
for our	senior	managers,	and	a	rolling	programme	of	
development	conferences.
People
Case study
Communication, collaboration and 
passion for work. These three concepts 
were the resounding impression made 
by the ITE Transport & Logistics 
Conference, which took place from 
22-23 May in Brussels. 
40 ITE employees, including the 
entire Breakbulk and Eurasia Rail 
team, got together for the first time 
to share and discuss ITE Transport & 
Logistics shows and learn about ITE’s 
strategy for this sector. The attendees 
worked in groups on how to create sales 
action plans for shows and cover new sectors, international 
sales, and new approaches to exhibition promotion. As a result, 
best practice was shared and new ideas were generated that 
will help strengthen our existing shows and develop new 
market opportunities.
EMPLOYEES  
IN EQUITY  
SCHEMES
63%
A	geographically	diverse	business	like	ours	places	a	critical	
importance	on	internal	communications	and	our	Employee	
Engagement	Survey	has	provided	many	useful	insights	into	the	
information	that	our	colleagues	want	to	hear	about	–	and	how	
they	want	to	receive	it.	In	addition,	we	have	continued	to	focus	
on	cross-border	industry	communication.	During	the	year	we	
held	two	industry-focused	global	management	meetings.	Our	
Oil	&	Gas	leaders	met	in	Istanbul	and	our	Transport	&	Logistics	
team	met	in	Brussels	following	Breakbulk	Europe	in	Antwerp. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20
Headline pre-tax proﬁt £m 
2015 47 .2
60.3
59.4
53.0
51.4
2014
2013
2012
2011
Chief Executive’s 
statement
HEADLINE  
DILUTED EPS
15.3p
“ITE has now established cornerstone 
businesses in three of the largest 
emerging markets of the future – 
China, India and Africa.”
Russell Taylor Chief Executive Officer ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Headline per-tax proﬁt bridge 
70
55
60
30
35
65
50
25
40
45
20
60.3
1.4 1.4
1.9 (6.5)
2.6 (12.5)
47 .2
£m
2014 Net
biennial
and timing
Net
‘one off’
forex
Acquisitions 
(net of 
overheads
and ﬁnancing)
FX
impact
FY15
Core 
business
2015
The	Group’s	performance	this	year
ITE’s	performance	this	year	largely	
reflects	the	difficult	trading	conditions	
in	its	main	market,	Russia,	and	the	
decline	in	the	value	of	the	Russian	Ruble	
(against	Sterling)	in	which	40%	of	the	
Group’s	revenues	are	denominated.
The	main	factors	affecting	Group	
profitability	this	year	are	summarised	
in	the	profit	bridge	below.	
The	fall	by	circa	50%	of	the	Russian	
Ruble	against	Sterling	accounted	
for	most	of	the	£6.5	million	foreign	
exchange	loss	suffered	in	the	year,	and	
a	reduction	in	core	business	through	
adverse	economic	conditions	accounted	
for	a	further	£12.5	million	of	shortfall	
against	last	year.	Offsetting	this	was	
a	positive	biennial	contribution	of	
£1.4	million,	and	the	benefit	of	newly	
acquired	businesses,	which	had	an	
incremental	effect	of	£2.6	million	in	the	
year	after	additional	financing	costs.	
The	currency	impact	and	the	core	
business	decline	have	a	common	cause;	
the	fall	in	the	oil	price	having	a	negative	
effect	on	the	oil	dependant	economies	
of Russia,	Azerbaijan	and	Kazakhstan	and	
leading	to	a	proportionate	devaluation	
of	currencies	to	protect	their	national	
finances.	The	currencies	of	Russia,	
Azerbaijan	and	Kazakhstan	are	now	
trading	at	circa	half	of	their	previous	
values	against	Sterling.	The	effect	
on	ITE’s business	in	these	countries	
was	further	aggravated	by	the	high	
proportion of	ITE’s	exhibitors	who	import	
and	distribute	overseas	goods;	for	these	
customers	the	currency	devaluation	has	
made	their	business	less	competitive.	
The	Group’s	Russian	and	Ukrainian	
businesses	were	the	most	severely	
impacted	in	the	year.	The	ongoing	
political	instability	in	Eastern	Ukraine	
and	consequent	sanctions	imposed	by	
the	West	on	Russia	was	already	dragging	
on	the	Russian	business	before	the	
sudden	fall	in	oil	prices	in	December	
2014.	Overall,	like-for-like	trading	volumes	
across	Russia	declined	by	20%	in	the	
year,	which	accounts	for	the	majority	of	
the	£12.5	million	decline	in	core	business	
highlighted	above.	The	Ukrainian	office	
had	already	suffered	a	50%	decline	
in	business	activity	last	year,	and	this	
year	reported	a	further	25%	reduction	
in	like-for-like	volumes,	as	the	first	half	
of	the	year	reported	‘catch	up’	results	
reflecting	the	political	turmoil	that	had	
already	impacted	the	second	half	of	
the	previous	financial	year.	The	Central	
Asian	business	had	traded	positively	
last year,	and	started	this	year	in	positive	
mode	with	the	early	events	showing	
good	growth,	but	by	the	end	of	the	year	
these	economies	were	also	reflecting	
the	impact	of	a	much	lower	oil	price,	
and	had	devalued	their	currencies.	
The	associate	businesses	in	India	and	
China	made	a	positive	contribution	
to	the	core	business,	with	the	50%	
owned	Sinostar	business	in	China,	
and	the	28%	owned	ABEC	business	
in	India	both	reporting	‘best	ever’	
results	(though	revenues	of	those	
businesses	are	not	consolidated).	The	
positive	contribution	of	£2.6	million	
from	newly	acquired	businesses	came	
from	the	additions	of	Eurasia	Rail,	and	
the	Breakbulk	portfolio,	both	of	which	
are	set	out	in	more	detail	below.	
Development	of	the	business
The	main	objectives	for	the	Group	this	
year	were	continuing	to	expand	and	
diversify	the	Group’s	business	and	
managing	the	effects	of	the	difficult	
economic	conditions	in	Russia.
The	Group	made	three	substantial	
acquisitions	in	the	year.	In	December	
2014	the	Group	acquired	Eurasia	Rail	
for	£7.3	million,	and	the	Breakbulk	
portfolio	of	events	for	£27	million.	In	
March	this	year,	the	Group	acquired	
50%	of	Africa	Oil	Week	for	£16	million,	
which	was	largely	funded	by	a	share	
placing	raising	approximately	£12	million.	
These	events	will	further	diversify	our	
business	away	from	its	historical	Russia-
CIS	platform	and	their	contributions	will	
be	fully	reflected	in	next	year’s	results.	
The	Breakbulk	portfolio	of	exhibitions	
and	publications	serves	the	Transport	&	
Logistics	market	for	large-scale	project	
equipment,	and	are	held	annually	
in	Houston,	Antwerp,	Shanghai,	and	
Johannesburg.	The	Shanghai,	Antwerp	
and	Johannesburg	events	ran	in	this	
financial	year.	The	Houston	event	
and	a	newly	launched	Middle	East	
event	took	place	in	October	2015	
and will	be	included	in	the	Group’s	
2016	results.	The	portfolio	provides	
exciting opportunities	for	the	Group	and	
is	performing	in	line	with	expectations.
Eurasia	Rail	is	the	leading	railway	
infrastructure	show	in	Turkey	and	
extends	our	Transport	&	Logistics	
industry	sector	into	rail	transportation	
and	geographically	into	Turkey.	It	ran	
for	the	first	time	under	ITE	ownership	
in March	2015	and	performed	in line	 
with	our	expectations.	
Africa	Oil	Week	is	the	annual	Oil	&	Gas	
confex	held	in	Cape	Town.	It	is	the	
longest-running	and	most	prominent	
event	held	in	Africa	for	the	continent’s	
growing	oil,	gas	and	energy	industry.	
Delegate	attendance	and	financial	
performance	held	up	well	and	the	event	
remains	resilient.	We	expect	it	to	recover	
and	exceed	its	previous	levels	when	oil	
prices	return	to	more	normal	levels. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22
The	Group’s	management	has	invested	
heavily	in	managing	its	exposure	to	the	
Russian	economy,	by	reviewing	and	
controlling	its	cost	base.	Over	the	year	
the	total	headcount	in	Russia	has	been	
reduced	by	circa	11%	from	444	to	393,	
as	we	have	sought	to	keep	costs	in	line	
with	reducing	volumes	of	business.	
Venue	costs	are	the	biggest	part	of	our	
cost	base,	and	these	have	been	reduced	
in	line	with	business	volumes.	There	
have	been	positive	developments	in	
the	Krasnodar	business,	where	a	new	
venue	has	been	completed	which	will	
help	ITE’s	business	to	grow	in	future	
years.	Krasnodar	is	the	prime	agricultural	
region	in	Russia	and	is	benefiting	from	
the	current	focus	for	Russia	to	become	
less	dependent	on	imports	for	its	food	
production.	We	have	also	continued	to	
build	our	joint	venture	relationship	with	
Messe	Frankfurt	to	develop	a	world-class	
exhibition	in	the	Russian	auto	sector.	
This	joint	venture	already	runs	the	MIMS	
–	Automechanika	event	and	we	have	
jointly	invested	a	further	£3.2	million	to	
acquire	Comtrans,	the	commercial	vehicle	
exhibition	taking	place	in	Moscow.	
The	Asian	business	has	had	a	year	of	
building	structure	and	consolidation,	
following	the	acquisition	activity	of	
earlier years.	We	now	have	a	well-
established	management	structure	with	
a	clear	focus	on	how	to	build	a	coherent	
exhibition	portfolio	in	the	future.	A	good	
proportion	of	time	this	year	has	been	
spent	preparing	ourselves	for	the	exercise	
of	the	call	option	over	ABEC	in	India,	and	
establishing	how	to	properly	combine	the	
activities	of	our	two	business	units.	ABEC	
itself	has	had	a	very	strong	year	growing	
its	profits	by	40%,	and	we	are	pleased	
Manish	and	Sumit	Gandhi	will	continue	
to	work	for	ITE	and	ABEC	in	the	future.	
The	Group	continues	to	develop	its	
digital	capacity,	with	the	creation	of	a	
team	spread	across	the	regions	allowing	
the	Group	to	utilise	its	best	resources	
in	this	area	and	access	maximum	
synergies.	The	team	focuses	on	the	
use	of	existing	data,	in	particular	on	
enhanced	data	governance,	collection	
and	collation	as	well	as	best	practice	in	
digital	engagement	with	our	customers.	
Central	to	this	is	our	ability	to	monitor	our	
customers’	feedback	and	measurement	
of	their	satisfaction	and	experience	at	
the	Group’s	events.	The	team	is	also	
challenged	to	deliver	complementary	
revenue	streams	and	the	Group’s	
first	digital	product,	WorldBuild365,	
was	launched	in	July.	This	creates	an	
online	extension	of	the	exhibition	for	
the	construction	industry	by	bringing	
buyers	and	sellers	of	the	industry	
together	throughout	the	year	on	a	digital	
platform	where	they	can	share	product	
information	and	industry	knowledge.	
Venue	expansion	is	critical	to	the	
development	of	our	business.	As	
noted	before,	the	new	purpose-built	
venue	in	Krasnodar	offering	28,000m
2
 
of	international	standard	space	is	an	
improvement	on	the	old	facility,	which	
has	restricted	the	growth	of	some	of	our	
biggest	events.	A	new	50,000m
2
	venue	
in	Jakarta,	Indonesia,	which	is	opening	
in	early	2016,	will	facilitate	growth	of	
our	market-leading	construction	event,	
Indobuildtech.	In	Malaysia,	construction	
is	under	way	on	a	new	venue	of	circa	
20,000m
2
	due	to	open	in	2017	that	will	
create	opportunities	for	the	Group	to	
grow	its	events.	The	Group	is	increasingly	
well	positioned	to	participate	in	the	
growth	that	the	investments	in	local	
exhibition	facilities	will	generate.
ITE’s	diversification	strategy	is	continuing	
to	work	well	and	it	remains	a	priority	
to	create	more	geographical	balance	in	
our	business.	ITE	has	now	established	
‘cornerstone’	businesses	in	three	of	
the	largest	emerging	markets	of	the	
future	–	China,	India	and	Africa.	Having	
established	a	base	business	in	these	
geographies,	much	of	the	Group’s	future	
activity	will	focus	on	developing	additional	
scale	through	organic	development	and	
bolt-on	acquisitions	in	our	core	industries.	
The	historic	development	of	our	business	
has	left	us	with	strong	industry	positions	
in	Construction,	Oil	&	Gas,	Travel	&	
Tourism	and	Food,	with	multiple	shows	
in	each	sector.	We	have	this	year	created	
a	stronger	position	in	the	Transport	&	
Logistics	sector,	which	we	expect	to	be	a	
good	opportunity	in	our	new	emerging	
market	geographies	in	the	future.	We	are	
increasingly	seeing	more	synergy	across	
the	industry	portfolios,	and	the	expected	
contribution	from	acquisitions	made	in	
this	financial	year	will	fall	half	into	the	Oil	
&	Gas	portfolio,	with	the	remaining	half	
into	the	Transport	&	Logistics	sector.	
ITE’s	objectives	and	strategy	
ITE’s	principal	objective	is	to	create	
a business	with	sustainable	growth	
in headline	earnings	per	share.	Its	
strategy	is	to	develop	positions	of	market	
leadership	in	the	exhibition	business	
substantially	in	emerging	and	developing	
markets	with	good	growth	prospects.
ITE	has	been	evolving	its	strategic	
objectives.	We	have	to	date	been	
successful	in	establishing	positions	
in	new markets,	but	in	the	future	
our activity	will	be	orientated	towards	
development	of	brands	and	industry	
verticals	to	support	our	aim	for	industry	
leadership	in	certain	sectors.	This	
‘strength	in	depth’	logic	is	increasingly	
driving	the	development	of	our	future	
business	as	it	both	reduces	risk	and	
increases	synergy	to	develop	the	business	
within	sectors	where	there	is	expertise	
and	a	common	customer	base.	We	will	
continue	to	add	geographic	balance	
to	our	business	through	expansion	in	
our	industry	verticals	in	focusing	on	
emerging	and	developing	markets.
Four	priorities	underpin	ITE’s	strategy:
1.	 Improving	its	existing	positions	of	
market	leadership	
2.	 Expansion	into	new	sectors	and	
geographies	with	potential	for	strong	
market	positions	
3.	 Improving	our	exhibition	brands	
4.	 Developing	our	people
ITE’s	performance	against	its	strategic	
priorities	is	set	out	below:
(i) Improving existing positions 
of market leadership:
ITE’s	existing	positions	of	market	
leadership	are	founded	on	its	ability	
to	generate	international	sales,	its	
recognised	brands,	its	local	office	
infrastructure	and	its	long-standing	
relationships	with	venues.
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
International	sales	strength 
ITE’s	ability	to	generate	international	
sales	has	differentiated	it	from	its	local	
competition	in	Russia	and	the	related	
CIS	markets.	The	same	pattern	is	also	
true	of	China	and	South	East	Asia,	with	
international	participation	and	content	
being	key	differentiators	for	pricing	and	
position.	The	Group	has	established	a	
loyal	customer	base	and	a	geographic	
reach,	which	is	increasingly	valuable	as	
it	seeks	to	leverage	its	sales	into	new	
markets.	This	year	the	Group	has	focused	
on	growing	its	sales	from	Asia,	and	now	
operates	‘outbound’	offices	in	India	and	
Malaysia	in	addition	to	its	Beijing	office.	
In	2015	the	Group’s	international	sales	
offices	sold	105,000m
2
	which	represents	
circa	25%	of	the	Group’s	2015	revenues.	
Approximately	14%	of	revenues	were	
sold	by	the	Group’s	London	office,	3%	
by	the	German	office,	4%	by	the	Turkish	
office	and	6%	by	the	sales	offices	in	Asia.	
ITE’s	international	brands
ITE	has	established	strong	brand	
identities	in	certain	exhibition	sectors.	
In	particular,	the	WorldBuild	brand	
in	Construction,	the	Global	Oil	&	Gas	
brand,	the	ITE	Travel	portfolio	and	
the	WorldFood	brands	all	have	strong	
reputations	with	customers	as	leading	
events	in	the	Russian	and	CIS	markets	
earned	through	more	than	15	years	
of	sustained	good	performance.	
We	have	this	year	developed	these	
‘brands’	in	an	online	environment,	
and	developed	a	clear	new	brand	
in	the	‘Translogistica’	space.
Local	office	infrastructure	
ITE’s	brands	have	built	their	reputation	
through	sustained	delivery	of	successful	
exhibitions	to	customers.	The	foundation	
of	this	is	in	ITE’s	local	offices	which	now	
employ	over	900	staff.	Local	offices	
generate	the	local	sales,	reputation	
and	visitor	participation	of	the	event	as	
well	as	managing	technical	staging	of	
the	exhibitions.	Critically,	they	own	and	
develop	the	database	of	local	visitors	who	
make	the	exhibition	successful	for	the	
exhibitors.	In	its	core	markets,	ITE’s	local	
offices	have	always	been	a	competitive	
advantage	over	other	international	
exhibition	organisers	and	a	barrier	to	
entry	for	new	organisers	wishing	to	
run	events.	ITE	will	continue	to	develop	
strong	local	offices	as	part	of	its	exhibition	
business	in	new	markets.	The	Group	
has	an	integration	programme	for	new	
offices	acquired	into	the	ITE	network	
and	is	increasing	its	investment	in	the	
infrastructure	that	underpins	these	
offices	and	in	staff	training.	The	Group	
has	high	rates	of	employee	retention	
in	its	offices,	and	supports	this	by	its	
commitment	to	having	widespread	
equity	ownership	–	currently	63%	of	staff	
participate	in	some	form	of	equity	scheme.
Venue	relationships
ITE	has	always	enjoyed	long-standing	
relationships	with	the	venues	that	host	
its	exhibitions.	In	its	historic	core	markets	
ITE	has	supported	the	development	of	
venue	facilities	which	in	turn	has	helped	
the	Group’s	exhibitions	to	grow.	The	
Group	has	always	sought	to	establish	
rights	to	run	its	main	exhibition	themes	
in	its	partner	venues	at	the	time	of	its	
choice	and	ITE	has	continued	to	work	
on	maintaining	and	improving	the	
venue	relationships	that	underpin	its	
business.	Most	of	ITE’s	major	events	have	
agreements	which	provide	for	venue	
facilities	for	two	to	three	years	ahead.
(ii) Expansion into new sectors and 
geographies with potential for strong 
market positions:
In	existing	markets	this	strategy	
means targeting	new	sectors	in	which	
to	acquire	or	develop	exhibitions	where	
there	is	potential	for	the	participation	of	
international	exhibitors.	In	new	markets,	
ITE	is	targeting	the	development	of	
exhibition	businesses	where	there	is	clear	
opportunity	for	strong	future	growth.	
This	year	the	Group	has	continued	to	
expand	its	business	presence	into	Turkey,	
South	East	Asia,	China	and	Africa.	In	
so	doing	it	has	acquired	expertise	in	
new	sectors	–	some	of	which	have	the	
potential	to	be	replicated	in	ITE’s	core	
markets.	It	has	also	made	it	possible	
for	the	Group	to	run	its	existing	brands	
in	the	new	markets.	The	acquisition	of	
Africa	Oil	Week,	which	serves	the	oil	
industry	throughout	Africa,	provides	ITE	
with	a	platform	to	run	other	events	in	
select	African	countries.	We	have	already	
announced	the	launch	of	a	construction	
event	in	Nigeria	in	tandem	with	a	partner,	
and	we	plan	to	expand	the	Oil	&	Gas	
franchise	further	where	practical.	In	
India,	the	step	up	to	ABEC	becoming	a	
subsidiary	is	significant	for	the	future	
development	of	our	business	in	India.
As	the	Group’s	acquisition	activity	over	
the	last	few	years	has	opened	up	access	
to	new	markets,	there	are	now	increasing	
synergies	and	benefits	to	be	gained	
from	strengthening	its	industry	portfolio	
where	it	has	sector	presence.	The	Group	
aims	to	increasingly	focus	its	acquisition	
activity	on	building	portfolio	strength	
and	leadership	in	exhibition	sectors	
–	creating	stronger,	more	defensible	
business	positioning	for	its	exhibitions.
(iii) Improving our exhibition brands: 
The	Group’s	management	has	been	
working	to	strengthen	ITE’s	existing	
international	brands.	We	are	doing	this	
by	introducing	product	improvements	
to	enhance	customer	experience	and	
ensuring	consistency	in	the	presentation	
and	promotion	of	similar	events	in	
ITE’s	vertical	industry	sectors.	The	
Group’s	brand	development	projects	
have	covered	all	aspects	of	product	
quality,	naming,	character,	tone-of-
voice	and	graphic	designs	associated	
with	events	in	the	Group’s	largest	
portfolios.	The	improvements	will	
deliver	numerous	benefits,	including	
increasing	the	global	recognition	of	
ITE’s	brands	and	enabling	the	Group	
to	launch	events	into	new	territories.	
(iv) Developing our people:
The	Group	has	continued	its	
programme of	developing	the	
strength and	depth	of	the	leadership	
and management	teams	in	the	year	
as	well	as	improving	communications	
between	offices.	Current	initiatives	
include	a	continuing	commitment	to	
our leadership	development	programme	
focusing	on	the	Group’s	most	promising	
employees.	We	also	continue	to	invest	
in	a	rolling	programme	of	cross-
Group	development	conferences.	
Communications	have	continued	to	
improve,	with	a	high	level	of	employee	
engagement	via	the	intranet,	the	
newsletter	and	through	cooperation	
in	cross-border	industry	groups.
ITE	has	continued	to	evolve	the	strategic	
priorities	by	which	it	seeks	to	achieve	
its	overall	objectives.	The	Group	has	
been	successful	in	establishing	positions	
in	new	markets	and	in	the	year	ahead	
will	continue	to	focus	on	strengthening	
its	brands	and	industry	verticals.	
Russell Taylor	Chief	Executive	Officer
30	November	2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24
Overall	in	2015	the	Group	ran	240	events	(2014:	246).	The	decrease	in	the	number	of	events	is	attributable	to	a	combination	of	
acquisition	activity,	launches	and	timing	differences.	A	detailed	analysis	of	volumes,	revenues	and	gross	profits	from	the	Group’s	
exhibition	and	conference	activities	is	detailed	below:
Square	
metres	sold	
(000)
Revenue	
£m
Gross	
profit	
£m
Average	
yield	
per	m
2
2014 All events 733 175 81 
Non-annual (70) (11) (3)
Timing (15) (3) (1)
2014 Annually	recurring 648 161 77 248
Acquisitions 20 6 4
FX	translation – (22) (10)
Net	growth (96) (20) (14)
2015 Annually	recurring 572 125 57 219
Non-annual 20 7 4
Timing 21 4 1
2015 All events 613 136 62 
Overall,	the	Group	saw	volume	sales	fall	by	16%	to	613,400m
2
	and	revenues	decrease	by	22%	to	£135.8	million,	despite	a	
stronger biennial	year	and	the	impact	of	acquisitions.	On	a	like-for-like	basis,	volume	sales	fell	by	14%	and	revenues	fell	by	12%.	
Revenue
2015
£m
2014
£m
%
change
%
	change	
like-for-like
1
Russia 72,138 102,851 -30% -17%
Asia 3,877 5,665 -32% -7%	
Rest	of	the	World 14,719 11,677 +26% 0%
Central	Asia	 27,201 33,509 -19% -8%
Eastern	&	Southern	Europe 17,859 21,125 -15% -3%
Total 135,794 174,827 -22% -12%
1	 Where	used,	like-for-like	measures	are	stated	on	a	constant	currency	basis	adjusted	to	exclude	acquisitions	impacting	for	the	first	time,	event	timing	
differences	and	biennial	events.
Divisional trading summary ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
ITE Group revenue by sector
1
10 2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
  2015 2014
1. Advanced Technologies 6% 7%
2. Beauty & Healthcare 7% 7%
3. Build & Interiors 26% 29%
4. Connect 4% 7%
5. Energy 13% 7%
6. Fashion 9% 7%
7. Food & Packaging 13% 14%
8. Manufacturing Industrial Technology 6% 10%
9. Transport & Logistics 7% 3%
10. Travel & Tourism 9% 9%
ITE Group revenue by region
1
2
3
4
5
  2015 2014
1. Russia 53% 59%
2. Central Asia 20% 19%
3. Eastern & Southern Europe 13% 13%
4. Rest of the World 3% 6%
5. Asia 11% 3%
Our events
ITE’s	top	50	events	in	2015	(by	profit)	categorised	by	region	and	sector
Advanced	
Technologies
Beauty	&	
Healthcare
Build	&
Interiors Connect Energy Fashion
Food	&	
Packaging
Manufacturing	
Industrial	
Technology
Transport	&	
Logistics
Travel	&	
Tourism Total
Moscow ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● 17
St	Petersburg ● 1
Novosibirsk ● 1
Krasnodar ● ● ● 3
Kazakhstan ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● 8
Azerbaijan ● ● ● 3
Uzbekistan ● 1
Turkmenistan ● 1
Ukraine ● ● 2
Turkey ● ● ● ● ● ● 6
India 0
China ● 1
SE	Asia ● 1
Rest	of	the	World ● ● ● ● ● 5
Total 50
●	>	£1	million	revenue.
●	<	£1	million	revenue. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26
Russia
Resilient performance  
in challenging trading 
conditions
ITE offices
Moscow
St	Petersburg
Novosibirsk
Krasnodar
Ekaterinburg
During the year ITE held 1 16 events in 
Russia (2014: 1 18), with total volume 
sales this year of 31 2,600m
2
 (2014: 
380,200m
2
). 
Revenue	of	£72.1	million	was	30%	lower	than	the	previous	year,	
reflecting	the	significant	weakening	of	the	Russian	Ruble	and	 
an	increasingly	more	difficult	trading	environment	as	the	year	
progressed.	On	a	like-for-like	basis,	volume	sales	in	Russia	
decreased	by	20%	and	revenues	decreased	by	17%	from	the	
prior	year.
The	Russian	economy	has	been	in	a	recessionary	environment	
through	all	of	last	year	with	the	effects	on	trading	volumes	
increasing	as	the	year	progressed.	The	first	half	of	the	year	
was	relatively	unaffected	as	this	benefited	from	more	benign	
booking	conditions	in	spring/summer	2014.	The	second	half	
of	the	year	was	increasingly	impacted	from	a	deepening	
economic	recession	exacerbated	by	the	rapid	fall	in	oil	prices.	
The	Group	saw	a	contraction	in	all	sectors	across	the	Russian	
business	with	Construction	and	Energy	most	impacted.
Moscow	is	ITE’s	largest	office	in	Russia,	accounting	for	around	
85%	of	the	region’s	revenues.	The	office	operates	the	Group’s	
largest	events,	a	number	of	which	are	the	‘number	one,	must	
attend’	events	which	partially	help	insulate	the	Group	in	the	
event	of	economic	weakness.	Moscow’s	volume	sales	for	the	
year	were	202,400m
2
	(2014:	243,700m
2
),	a	fall	of	18%	on	a	
like-for-like	basis.
The	leading	events	in	Moscow	produced	a	mixed	performance	
this	year.	The	portfolio	of	industrial	events	held	in	the	first	
quarter	performed	relatively	strongly,	with	some	events	showing	
good	levels	of	growth;	however,	performance	declined	from	
the	second	quarter	onwards	with	all	major	events	showing	a	
fall	in	prior	year	volumes.	The	Moscow	International	Travel	and	
Tourism	exhibition	which	is	held	annually	in	March	delivered	
sales	of	16,300m
2
	(2014:	20,000m
2
)	as	the	devaluing	Ruble	
impacted	Russian	international	tourism.	The	Group’s	largest	
event,	Mosbuild,	which	in	common	with	other	construction	
businesses	in	Russia	was	impacted	by	the	economic	conditions	
and	local	competition,	saw	volumes	fall	by	38%	to	40,300m
2
 
(2014:	65,400m
2
).	The	logistics	event,	TransRussia,	saw	volumes	
decline	by	21%	to	7,900m
2
	(2014:	10,000m
2
),	whilst	the	security	
event,	Moscow	International	Security	&	Protection,	performed	
a	little	better	with	volumes	of	11,100m
2
	(2014:	11,700m
2
).	
The biennial	Moscow	International	Oil	&	Gas	Event	returned	in	
June	and	reflected	the	decline	in	oil	prices	delivering	18,500m
2
 
(2013:	24,000m
2
).	The	key	event	for	the	Group	in	September	is	
WorldFood	Moscow	which	proved	relatively	resilient,	growing	
its	visitor	numbers	over	the	prior	year	and	suffering	only	
a	12%	fall	in	volumes	to	22,600m
2
,	as	supplier	substitution	
offset	a	decline	in	the	traditional	European	supplier	base. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Revenue by sector
1
4
5
6
7
9
10
8
2
3
  2015
1. Advanced Technologies 10%
2. Beauty & Healthcare 6%
3. Build & Interiors 28%
4. Connect 5%
5. Energy 11%
6. Food & Packaging 18%
7. Manufacturing Industrial
 Technology  7%
8. Other 1%
9. Transport & Logistics 5%
 10. Travel & Tourism 9%
The	Group	operated	18	events	from	the	St	Petersburg	office	
during	the	year,	with	overall	volume	sales	of	23,400m
2
	(2014:	
27,200m
2
).	Performance	was	in	line	with	Moscow	with	most	
shows	showing	a	decline	in	volumes	from	the	prior	year	with	
those	events	in	industries	reliant	on	capital	expenditure,	such	
as	construction	and	mining,	most	impacted.	The	exception	was	
ExpoElectronica,	the	international	radio-electronics	event,	
which	grew	by	1%	as	it	took	market	share.
In	Novosibirsk,	Siberia,	ITE	is	the	anchor	tenant	in	the	city’s	
main	venue.	The	international	quality	space	it	offers	has	
provided	a	platform	for	good	growth	in	the	Group’s	business	in	
this	region	in	recent	years.	However,	this	trend	reversed	during	
2014	as	the	region	moved	into	a	recessionary	environment	and	
this	continued	further	in	2015.	During	the	year	the	region	held	
36	events	(2014:	34),	with	overall	volume	sales	declining	to	
30,200m
2
	(2013:	41,500m
2
)	with	all	sectors	affected.
The	Krasnodar	region	in	south	west	Russia	is	one	of	the	
most	prosperous	outside	Moscow.	The	exhibition	portfolio	
covers	a	broad	range	of	sectors,	the	largest	events	being	in	
the	agriculture	and	construction	sectors.	The	region	fared	
better	than	others,	buoyed	by	the	relative	resilience	of	its	
agricultural	exhibitions.	In	total,	this	office	contributed	volume	
sales	of	over	52,500m
2
	(2014:	60,000m
2
).	Despite	the	decline	
in	sales	volumes	this	year,	the	Group’s	two	largest	events	in	
Krasnodar	continue	to	be	restricted	by	the	size	of	the	venue.	
The	Group	has	now	become	the	anchor	tenant	at	a	new	
28,000m
2
	venue	in	the	city,	which	opened	ahead	of	
schedule	in	November	2015,	and	in	time	to	house	ITE’s	
agricultural	event,	YugAgro,	which	grew	by	nearly	20%	
over	the	prior	edition.	This	new	facility	will	allow	ITE’s	
largest	events	to	grow	and	the	business	to	expand	into	
new	industry	sectors	as	the	economy	recovers. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28
Revenue by sector
6
1
4
5
6
7
8
9 2
3
  2015
1. Advanced Technologies 4%
2. Beauty & Healthcare 8%
3. Build & Interiors 23%
4. Connect 8%
5. Energy 32%
6. Food & Packaging 11%
7. Manufacturing  
 Industrial Technology 4%
8. Transport & Logistics 3%
9. Travel & Tourism 7%
Central Asia
Trading conditions 
impacted by falling 
oil prices
ITE offices
Almaty
Astana
Baku
Tashkent
Bishkek
Ashgabat
ITE’s principal offices in Central Asia 
are in Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and 
Uzbekistan. 
All	of	the	economies	in	this	region	are	heavily	dependent	on	
Oil &	Gas	for	their	overseas	earnings	and	economic	wealth	
and in	the	case	of	Kazakhstan	a	significant	level	of	trade with	
Russia	as	well.	The	fall	in	the	oil	price	and	the	Russian	economic	
recession	have	had	an	increasingly	significant	impact	on	trading	
conditions	within	the	region	as the	year	progressed.	
This	year	ITE	organised	a	total	of	79	events	(2014:	79)	across	
these	territories	delivering	total	volume	sales	of	83,000m
2
	(2014:	
103,100m
2
)	and	revenues	of	£27.2	million	(2014:	£33.5	million).	
Overall,	on	a	like-for-like	basis,	volumes	decreased	by	8%	over	
the previous	year	with	revenues	being	impacted	by	the	
negative effects	of	foreign	exchange	movements,	particularly	in	
Azerbaijan	which	saw	a	33%	devaluation	of	the	Manat	in	January	
2015	and	in	Kazakhstan	where	the	Tenge	has	devalued	by	over	
60%	in	the	last	18	months.	
Kazakhstan	is	the	Group’s	largest	office	in	the	region,	selling	
45,200m
2
	(2014:	47,100m
2
).	Trading	in	the	first	half	of	the	year	
includes	the	largest	event	in	the	region,	Kazakhstan	Oil	&	Gas	
Exhibition	(KIOGE),	which	took	place	in	Almaty	in	October	
2014 and	was	slightly	smaller	than	the	prior	edition	at	
6,800m
2
 (2014:	8,000m
2
).	Aside	from	this	event,	the	first	half	
was	relatively	strong	with	good	growth	at	a	number	of	events,	
led by	Food	&	Packaging.	The	second	half	of	the	year	saw	a	
more mixed	performance	as	the	effects	of	a	falling	oil	price	
began	to	feed	through	to	the	trading	results,	with	Construction	
most	impacted.
Volumes	in	Azerbaijan	contracted	for	the	first	time	since	the	
financial	recession	of	2008-09,	as	a	lesser	biennial	pattern,	the	
oil	price	fall	and	the	subsequent	Manat	devaluation	impacted	
the	business.	This	year	the	region	achieved	volume	sales	of	
25,600m
2
	(2014:	42,000m
2
)	a	decrease	of	22%	on	the	prior	year	
on	a	like-for-like	basis.	Although	certain	sectors	such	as	Food,	
Logistics	and	Health	performed	ahead	of	the	prior	year	the	
impact	of	a	decrease	in	oil	and	telecoms	especially	dragged	
down	the	overall	revenue	performance,	with	like-for-like	
revenues	down	18%	on	the	prior	year.	
ITE’s	Uzbekistan	business	performed	well	in	2015	selling	
11,500m
2
	(2014:	13,100m
2
)	in	their	weaker	biennial	year	
due to resilient	local	exhibitions	and	some	new	launches.	
Revenues increased	by	1%	on	a	like-for-like	basis. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Revenue by sector
6
1
4
5
6
7
2
3
  2015
1. Advanced Technologies 1%
2. Beauty & Healthcare 13%
3. Build & Interiors 48%
4. Energy 1%
5. Food & Packaging 11%
6. Transport & Logistics 8%
7. Travel & Tourism 18%
Eastern and 
Southern 
Europe
Stabilisation in Ukraine, 
growth in Turkey
ITE offices
Istanbul
Kiev
Warsaw
Poznan
The Eastern and Southern Europe 
region is represented by the Group’s 
offices in Turkey and Ukraine. 
Overall	the	region	sold	147,000m
2
	in	2015	(2014:	174,300m
2
),	
reflecting	the	continued	impact	of	the	political	crisis	in	Ukraine.	
On	a	like-for-like	basis	this	represented	a	decrease	of	9%	
in volumes.
Trading	in	Ukraine	continues	to	be	severely	impacted	by	
ongoing	geopolitical	issues.	ITE	runs	all	of	its	Ukrainian	events	
in	Kiev,	and	its	business	there	now	represents	2%	of	Group	
profits	for	this	financial	year	(2014:	3%).	During	the	year	it	has	
continued	to	operate	the	majority	of	its	events,	albeit	with	
fewer	exhibitors,	although	visitor	numbers	have	held	up	very	
well.	Overall	volume	sales	for	the	year	were	26,500m
2
	(2014:	
35,400m
2
)	a	25%	decrease	in	comparison	to	the	prior	year,	with	
revenues	lower	by	48%	as	the	Ukrainian	Hryvnia	devalued	
further	during	the	year.	Despite	these	significant	falls	in	
volumes	the	business	remains	profitable	and	has	recently	
been active	in	launching	new	events.	With	a	population	of	
over 45	million	people	and	the	potential	for	economic	recovery,	
ITE	remains	committed	to	operating	its	business	in	Ukraine	
and believes	it	offers	attractive	returns	in	the	longer	term.
Overall	total	volumes	in	Turkey	were	120,400m
2
	(2014:	
138,900m
2
),	reflecting	good	growth	in	the	majority	of	events	
and	the	absence	of	the	biennial	Ankomak	event.	On	a	like-
for-like	basis	volume	sales	were	4%	lower	than	last	year.	
During	the	year	the	region	has	focused	on	consolidating	its	
operations	under	one	roof	and	integrating	Eurasia	Rail,	which	
held	its	first	event	under	ITE	ownership,	selling	circa	10,000m
2
 
and	performing	in	line	with	initial	expectations.	The	travel	
event	EMITT	again	performed	well	and	ahead	of	the	prior	
edition.	Turkeybuild,	the	pre-eminent	construction	event	in	
Turkey,	took	place	in	late	April	and	delivered	its	largest	ever	
event	at	40,000m
2
	(2014:	36,300m
2
),	taking	advantage	of	
recently	completed	additional	venue	space.	In	September,	
the	Group	saw	further	strong	growth	at	WorldFood	Istanbul	
and	the	successful	launch	of	the	Istanbul	Water	Exhibition.	 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30
Revenue by sector
1
4
5
2
3
  2015
1. Advanced Technologies 2%
2. Build & Interiors 13%
3. Connect 6%
4. Manufacturing Industrial
 Technology 58%
5. Transport & Logistics 21%
Asia
Strong growth from 
associate businesses
ITE offices
Beijing
Shanghai
Guangzhou
Hong	Kong	(x2)
Kuala	Lumpur	(x2)
Jakarta
Dubai
New	Delhi
Mumbai
The Group’s operations in this region 
are based in India, China and South 
East Asia.
These	regions	represent	relatively	new	markets	for	ITE	in	
which to	grow	our	existing	products	and	develop	new	sectors.	
These	markets	are	characterised	by	faster-growing	economies,	
underpinned	by	a	rapidly	expanding	aspirational	middle	class	
population	which	is	expected	to	drive	consumer	demand.	In	
addition,	they	have	relatively	immature	exhibition	industries	for	
the	size	of	their	economies	and	these	two	factors	combine	to	
offer	excellent	growth	opportunities	for	ITE	over	the	medium	
term.	The	Group’s	operations	in	this	region	are	largely	through	
a series	of	joint	venture	arrangements	and	the	Group’s	income	
statement	reflects	only	those	revenues	over	which	it	has	majority	
ownership,	which	totalled	£3.9	million	during	this	weaker	biennial	
year	(2014:	£5.5	million).	In	comparison,	revenues	generated	by	
100%	of	the	joint	venture	and	associate	businesses	totalled	
around	£27	million	during	the	year.
The	Indian	exhibition	industry	offers	significant	potential	but	
is currently	restricted	by	the	lack	of	international	quality	venue	
space	in	the	country.	The	Group	operates	two	businesses	in	
India:	one	through	a	small	wholly	owned	subsidiary,	ITE	India,	
and	the	other	through	ABEC,	India’s	largest	private	exhibition	
organiser,	in	which	ITE	increased	its	stake	from	28.3%	to	60%	
in October	2015.	ABEC’s	portfolio	of	over	20	exhibitions	across	
different	industry	sectors	includes	Acetech	–	India’s	leading	
construction	event.	Both	businesses	performed	well	this	year;	
ITE	India	had	its	biennially	quieter	year	but	added	some	small	
new	launches,	whilst	ABEC	delivered	record	profits	with	a	
strong	performance	at	the	Acetech	events.	
In	China,	the	Group	operates	through	its	Hong	Kong	
headquartered	50%	joint	venture	partner	Sinostar	which	runs	
the	Chinacoat/Surface	Finishing	China	event.	The	November	
2014	event	was	a	record	size,	selling	over	36,000m
2
,	with	further	
strong	growth	expected	at	the	November	2015	event	which	
will	be	reflected	in	next	year’s	financial	results.	The	Group	is	
now	expanding	its	portfolio	of	events	in	the	coatings	sector	
with	launches	in	Kuala	Lumpur	(May	2016)	and	Thailand	(March	
2017),	and	the	addition	of	the	complementary	Fastener	Expo	
will	further	enhance	the	offering	in	this	fast-growing	sector.
In	South	East	Asia	the	Group	operates	through	three	
organisations	based	in	Malaysia	and	Indonesia.	In	Kuala	
Lumpur,	Malaysia	the	Group	now	owns	100%	of	Tradelink	
(having	acquired	the	minority’s	25%	stake	in	November	2015)	
which	runs	the	Metaltech	event,	serving	the	machine	tool	
technology	and	metal	fabrication	industries.	The	event,	which	
sells	over	12,000m
2
,	takes	place	each	May	in	Kuala	Lumpur	and	
performed	ahead	of	the	previous	edition,	although	it	is	likely	
to remain	at	its	present	size	until	construction	of	a	new	venue	
is completed	in	two	years’	time.	Also	based	in	Kuala	Lumpur	is	
the	Group’s	50%	joint	venture,	ECMI,	a	pan-ASEAN	organiser	
operating	in	Malaysia,	Indonesia,	Vietnam	and	Myanmar,	and	
traditionally	operating	in	the	professional	Beauty,	Life	Sciences,	
and	Oil	&	Gas	sectors.
In	Jakarta,	Indonesia,	the	Group	owns	50%	of	PT	Debindo,	
which runs	the	Indobuildtech	series	of	construction	exhibitions,	
the	largest	of	which	takes	place	annually	in	Jakarta	and	is	over	
14,000m
2
	in	size.	The	Group	has	already	begun	to	leverage	its	
international	sales	expertise	in	this	sector,	securing	international	
participation	at	the	2015	event,	and	now	has	an	opportunity	to	
significantly	increase	this	participation	with	the	move	of	the	
event	to	the	brand	new	International	Convention	and	Exhibition	
Centre.	This	new	venue	of	50,000m
2
	will	offer	much-needed	
expansion	space	in	an	international	class	facility. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Revenue by sector
6
1
2
4
  2015
1. Energy 1%
2. Fashion 83%
3. Food & Packaging 1%
4. Transport & Logistics 15%
3
Rest of the 
World
London-based events 
performing well
ITE offices
London
Huddersfield
Hamburg
Utrecht
Cape	Town
Newark
The Group’s Rest of the World 
results in 2015 are focused on the 
UK fashion industry. 
In	Moda	the	Group	owns	the	leading	midmarket	fashion	
event for	Womenswear,	Menswear,	Footwear	and	Lingerie	
which	runs	twice	a	year	in	Birmingham.	In	London	the	
Group operates	Bubble,	a	niche	high-end	Childrenswear	event;	
Jacket Required,	a	designer-led	menswear	event;	and	Scoop,	a	
designer-led	Womenswear	event.	Overall	the	portfolio	achieved	
volume	sales	of	41,800m
2
,	a	2%	decline	on	the	prior	year	with	
continued	growth	in	the	London-based	events,	especially	at	
Jacket	Required	and	Scoop,	partially	offsetting	declines	at	Moda	
which	continues	to	see	the	effects	of	a	changing	marketplace	
for	midmarket	independent	fashion	retailers.	The	Group	is	now	
taking	its	expertise	in	the	fashion	sector	outside	the	UK	and	is	
increasing	its	stake	to	a	51%	controlling	interest	in	‘The Hub’,	
a contemporary	menswear	event	which	is	now	located	
in Shanghai.
Lentewenc,	based	in	Warsaw,	in	which	the	Group	has	a	40%	
stake,	continued	to	build	its	business	and	now	runs	events	in	
four sectors	(Construction,	Food,	Healthcare	and	Transport),	
with Food	being	the	largest	and	fastest	growing.	In	total	
Lentewenc	sold	4,900m
2
	this	year,	an	increase	of	over	50%	
on the	previous	year. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32
Chief Financial 
Officer’s statement
GROSS MARGIN  
MAINTAINED
46%
“ Stable margins demonstrate the 
Group’s flexible cost base.”
Neil Jones Chief Financial Officer
Free cash ﬂow £m 
2015 28. 1
38.9
55.2
44.1
46.2
2014
2013
2012
2011 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Revenue	and	gross	profit	
Revenue	for	the	year	was	£135.8	million	
(2014:	£174.8	million)	and	gross	profit	for	
the	year	was	£62.2	million	(2014:	£80.8	
million),	maintaining	a	gross	margin	of	
46%	(2014:	46%).	
Administrative	expenses	across	the	
Group	decreased	to	£34.1	million	
from £42.0	million	in	the	previous	
year. Administrative	expenses	include	
significant	non-cash	items,	including	an	
amortisation	charge	of	£13.1	million	on	
acquired	intangibles	(2014:	£11.8	million),	
a	charge	for	share-based	payments	of	
£0.1	million	(2014:	£0.5	million)	and	a	
foreign	exchange	gain	of	£5.9	million	
arising	on	the	revaluation	of	foreign	
currency	monetary	assets	(2014:	£4.0	
million).	2014	administrative	expenses	
also	included	an	impairment	charge	of	
£6.2	million	on	goodwill	relating	to	our	
business	in	Ukraine.	Administrative	
expenses	also	include	non-headline	costs	
on	completed	and	pending	transactions	
of	£2.5	million	(2014:	£1.6	million).
Excluding	these	non-cash	items,	
administrative	expenses	decreased	
by	£0.7	million	to	£26.8	million	(2014:	
£27.5	million)	as	a	result	of	cost-saving	
initiatives	within	the	Group,	together	with	
the	impact	of	weaker	emerging	market	
currencies,	notably	the	Ruble,	in which	a	
significant	portion	of	overhead costs	are	
incurred.	Overall,	Group	administrative	
expenses	excluding	non-cash	items	and	
transaction	related	costs	represented	
17%	of	revenue	(2014:	15%).
Operating	profit	was	£32.1	million	
against a	prior	year	profit	of	£41.8	million,	
resulting	in	net	operating	margins	of	24%	
(2014:	24%)	for	the	year.	
Headline	pre-tax	profit	for	the	year	was	
£47.2	million	(2014:	£60.3	million).
Other	operating	income
£0.4 million (2014: £0.4 million)
Other	operating	income	represents	
rental income	earned	from	subletting	
surplus	office	space,	principally	at	ITE’s	
London	office.
Investment	revenue
£2.9 million (2014: £1.0 million)
Investment	revenue	came	from	interest	
on bank	deposits	of	£0.3	million	(2014:	
£0.4 million),	a	gain	on	the	revaluation	
of contingent	consideration	of	£2.2	million	
(2014:	£0.3	million)	and	a	gain	on	cash	flow	
hedges	of	£0.4	million	(2014:	nil).	In	the	
prior	year	there	was	also	a	gain	on	
revaluation	of	equity	options	of	
£0.3 million.
Finance	costs
£3.4 million (2014: £1.4 million)
Finance	costs	represent	the	interest	cost	
of	the	Group’s	borrowings	of	£1.6	million	
(2014:	£0.7	million),	bank	charges	of	£0.9	
million	(2014:	£0.6	million)	and	a	loss	on	
the	revaluation	of	put	options	of	£0.9	
million	(2014:	nil).	In	the	prior	year	there	
was	also	an	imputed	interest	charge	
arising	on	the	discounting	of	the	Group’s	
put	option	liabilities	of	£0.1	million.	
Tax	charge
The	tax	charge	of	£5.0	million	represents	
16%	of	profit	before	tax	(2014:	18%).	Tax	on	
associate	profits,	which	is	presented	within	
the	share	of	profit	from	associates,	was	
£1.2	million	(2014:	£0.9	million).	The	total	
tax	charge	of	£6.2	million	(2014:	£8.3	
million)	represents	19%	of	total	profits	
before	tax	(2014:	20%).
Earnings	per	share
Basic	earnings	per	share	decreased	
by 24%	to	10.5p	(2014:	13.8p).	Diluted	
earnings	per	share	decreased	by	25%	
to 10.4p	(2014:	13.8p).
The	Group	achieved	headline	diluted	
earnings	per	share	of	15.3p	(2014:	20.2p).	
Headline	diluted	earnings	per	share	is	
based	upon	profit	for	the	financial	year	
attributable	to	equity	holders	of	the	
parent,	before	amortisation	and	
impairment	of	acquired	intangible	
assets and	goodwill,	any	profits	or	
losses on	disposal	of	Group	undertakings,	
revaluation	of	financial	liabilities	in	relation	
to	put	options	over	non-controlling	
interests,	imputed	interest	charges	on	
discounted	put	option	liabilities	and	
transaction	costs	relating	to	completed	
and	pending	acquisitions	and	disposals.
Return	to	shareholders
The	Group	has	recommended	a	final	
dividend	of	4.9p	per	share	for	2015,	to	
bring	the	total	dividend	for	the	year	to	
7.4p	per	share	(2014:	7.4p),	which	is	
covered	2.1	times	by	earnings.
Maintaining	the	dividend	reflects	the	
Group’s	commitment	to	maximising	
shareholder	value	through	a	long-term	
progressive	dividend	policy,	set	against	
a principle	of	maintaining	at	least	two	
times	cover	across	the	biennial	cycle.
Reconciliation	of	profit	on	ordinary	activities	before	taxation	to	headline	pre-tax	profit
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit	on	ordinary	activities	before	taxation 31,546 41,478
Operating items
Amortisation	of	acquired	intangible	assets 13,134 11,815
Impairment	of	goodwill	 – 6,212
Profit	on	disposal	of	investments	included	within	
administrative expenses	 – (716)
Recognition	of	negative	goodwill	from	bargain	purchase – (463)
Transaction	costs	on	completed	and	pending	acquisitions 2,534 1,582
Tax	on	income	from	associates	and	joint	ventures 1,208 868
Financing items
Gain	on	revaluation	of	contingent	consideration (2,192) (297)
Loss/(gain)	on	revaluation	of	put	option	liabilities	over	
non-controlling	interests 929 (318)
Imputed	interest	charge	on	put	option	liabilities – 100
Headline	pre-tax	profit 47,159 60,261 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
34
Chief Financial 
Officer’s statement continued
Cash	flow
Cash	generated	from	operations	in	the	
year was	£37.0	million	(2014:	£48.5	million),	
which	after	adjusting	for	the	non-cash	
foreign	exchange	gain	of	£5.9	million	(2014:	
£4.0	million)	and	venue	utilisation	of	£0.8	
million	(2014:	advances	of	£6.9	million)	
represents	88%	of	headline	profits	(2014:	
98%).	This	reduction	reflects	a	working	
capital	drain	of	£3.9	million	as	revenues	
contracted	this	year.	The	principal	
applications	of	cash	were	£55.6	million	
applied	to	acquisitions	(2014:	£50.7	million);	
£6.6	million	paid	in	tax	(2014:	£8.7	million);	
and	£18.7	million	was	distributed	as	
dividends	to	the	Group’s	shareholders	
(2014:	£17.4	million).	The	increase	in	net	
debt	balances	over	the	year	was	£37.6	
million,	with	the	Group	being	£52.4	million	
in	net	debt	at	30	September	2015	(2014:	
£14.8	million).
Acquisitions	
On	22	December	2014,	ITE	acquired	
Breakbulk	Holdco	Limited	for	cash	
consideration	of	£26.9	million,	£1.3 million	
of	which	was	deferred.	The acquired	
business	has	contributed	£3.5	million	of	
revenue	and	£1.8	million	of	profit	to	Group	
results	since	acquisition.
On	27	January	2015,	the	Group	
acquired TF	Fuarcilik	ve	Organizasyon	AS,	
a	company	incorporated	in	Turkey	which	
organises	the	Eurasia	Rail	exhibition,	for	
cash	consideration	of	£7.3	million,	of	
which	£1.2	million	was	deferred	and	paid	
during	the	year.	The	acquired	business	
has	contributed	£1.5	million	to	Group	
revenue	and	£1.0	million	to	profit	
since acquisition.	
On	10	March	2015,	the	Group	acquired	
50.1%	of	a	portfolio	of	events	including	
Africa	Oil	Week	for	cash	consideration	
of £16.0	million	and	shares	in	Africa	Oil	
Week	Ltd	of	£15.3	million.	The	acquired	
business	has	contributed	£0.1	million	
to Group	revenue	and	profit	
since acquisition.	
Investments	in	joint	ventures	
and associates
On	5	February	2015,	ITE’s	wholly	
owned Russian	subsidiary,	LLC	ITE	Russia,	
established	a	50:50	joint	venture,	ITE	MF,	
with	MF	Rus,	a	Russian-based	subsidiary	 
of	Messe	Frankfurt,	for	an	investment	
of £3.2	million.
Net	assets	decreased	by	£6.1	million	to	
£99.3	million.	The	main	changes	are	in	
net debt	(an	increase	of	£37.6	million)	and	
goodwill	and	other	intangible	assets	(an	
increase	of	£35.4	million).	The	movement	
in	net	assets	since	the	prior	year	primarily	
reflects	net	profits	of	£26.6	million	and	
a share	issue	of	£12.0	million,	offset	by	
translational	losses	of	£26.4	million	and	
dividends	(including	minority	dividends)	
of	£18.7	million.
Goodwill	and	intangible	assets
Goodwill	and	intangible	assets	
have increased	during	the	year	due	
to acquisitions	made	in	the	period.	
This has	more	than	offset	the	decrease	
resulting	from	the	retranslation	of	
overseas	balances	to	Sterling	at	year	
end exchange	rates,	and	from	the	
amortisation	charge	in	the	year.	The	
intangible	assets	balance represents	
acquired	customer	relationships,	
trademarks	and	licences,	visitor	
databases	and	computer	software.	
Investment	and	capital	expenditure
The	Group’s	capital	expenditure	on	
plant and	equipment	decreased	during	
the year	to	£0.5	million	(2014:	£1.4	million)	
and	included	exhibition	equipment,	office	
fixtures	and	fittings.	Capital	expenditure	
on	computer	software	in	the	year	was	
£1.3 million	(2014:	£1.5	million).	This	
reflects	continued	investment	in	computer	
software	to	enhance	our	exhibition	visitor	
experiences,	develop	our	office	network	
and	support	our	sales,	marketing	and	
accounting	functions.	
Venue	arrangements
The	Group	has	long-term	arrangements	
with	its	principal	venues	in	its	main	
markets	setting	out	ITE’s	rights	over	
future	venue	use	and	pricing.
The	Group	funds	the	development	
of venues	and	facilities	where	
improvements	will	enhance	the	
prospects	and	profitability	of	its	
business.	The	funding	can	take	the	
form	of	a	prepayment	of	future	venue	
fees	(‘advance	payment’),	or	a	loan	
which	can	be	repaid	by	cash	or	be	
offset	against	future	venue	fees	(‘venue	
loan’).	Generally	the	funding	brings	
rights	over	future	venue	use	and	
advantageous	pricing	arrangements	
through	long-term	agreements.	
Venue	advances	and	prepayments	
are	included	in	the	Consolidated	
Statement	of	Financial	Position	under	
non-current	and	current	assets.
Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position
The	Group’s	Consolidated	Statement	of	Financial	Position	at	30	September	2015	is	
summarised	in	the	table	below:
30 September 2015
30	September	
2014
Assets 
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net assets 
£m
Net	assets	
£m
Goodwill	and	other	intangible	assets 137.8 – 137.8 102.4
Interests	in	associates	and	joint	ventures 56.8 – 56.8 52.4
Property,	plant	and	equipment 1.7 – 1.7 2.2
Venue	advances 6.4 – 6.4 10.2
Cash 17.3 – 17.3 28.1
Bank	loan – (69.6) (69.6) (42.9)
Other	current	assets	and	liabilities 39.8 (75.1) (35.0) (39.1)
Provisions	–	non-current – (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred	tax 1.7 (10.0) (8.6) (9.0)
Other	non-current	assets	and	liabilities 1.5 (8.8) (7.3) 1.3
Total as at 30 September 2015 263.0 (163.7) 99.3 105.4 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Share	capital
During	the	year	the	Company	issued	
7,253,107	(2014:	348,000)	ordinary	shares	
of	1p.	88,298	of	the	total	new	issues	
were	pursuant	to	the	exercise	of	options	
and	yielded	aggregate	consideration	of	
£889;	the	remainder	were	pursuant	to	a	
public	placing	which	yielded	aggregate	
consideration	of	£12	million.	As	at	30	
September	2015	the	Employees	Share	
Option	Trust	(ESOT)	held	3,168,153	
(1.2%)	of	the	Company’s	issued	share	
capital	(2014:	3,703,588	(1.5%)).	
Reserves
The	movement	in	the	translation	
reserve from	£33.3	million	to	£59.7	million	
represents	the	loss	on	the	retranslation	of	
the	Group’s	overseas	assets	denominated	
in	foreign	currencies.	This	is	driven	
primarily	by	movements	in	Sterling/Ruble	
exchange	rates.	The	increase	in	the	put	
option	reserve	and	non-controlling	
interests	is	the	result	of	the	acquisition	
of the	Africa	Oil	Week	business.
Treasury
During	the	year,	the	Group	experienced	a	
net	foreign	exchange	gain	of	£5.9	million	
(2014:	£4.0	million).	The	exchange	rate	
for the	Euro	at	30	September	2015	was	
€1.35:£1	(30	September	2014:	€1.28:£1);	
the	exchange	rate	for	the	Ruble	at	
30 September	2015	was	R99.3:£1	
(30 September	2014:	R63.8:£1);	the	
exchange	rate	for	the	US	Dollar	at	
30 September	2015	was	$1.52:£1	
(30 September	2014:	$1.63:£1).
During	the	year,	38%	of	the	Group’s	sales	
were	priced	in	Euros,	22%	in	Rubles,	12%	
in	Sterling,	3%	in	US	Dollars,	with	the	
balance	being	in	various	local	currencies.
The	average	exchange	rates	used	
to	translate	sales	into	Sterling	were:	
R85.0:£1	(2013:	R58.7),	€1.30:£1	(2014:	
€1.22:£1).	The	Group	estimates	that	a	
1	cent	movement	in	the	Euro	impacts	
profit	by	£300,000	and	a	1	Ruble	
movement	impacts	profit	by	£100,000.	
The	Group	uses	derivative	instruments	
and	currency	borrowings	to	protect	itself	
against	the	effect	of	currency	fluctuations	
on	a	proportion	of	its	sales	and	its	
balance	sheet.	The	Group’s	policy	on	
derivative	instruments	is	that:
 – it	will	hedge	no	more	than	75%	of	the	
value	of	anticipated	Euro	denominated	
sales	derived	from	outside	Russia	and	
the	CIS;	and
 – it	will	only	enter	into	derivative	
transactions	up	to	36	months	ahead.
At	30	September	2015,	the	Group	had	
entered	into	forward	contracts	to	sell	
Euros	for	Sterling	between	October	2015	
and	September	2018.	The	value	of	the	
contracts	is	€55.4	million	at	an	average	
rate	of	€1.24:£1.	These	instruments	are	
designated	as	hedging	instruments.
The	Group	finances	its	operations	
through	cash	holdings	and	banking	
facilities.	The	objective	of	the	Group	is	
to maximise	investment	income	and	
minimise	interest	costs,	bearing	in	mind	
its	liquidity	requirements.	
Group	borrowing	facilities
The	Group	has	long-term	borrowing	
facilities	provided	by	Barclays	Bank	and	
HSBC.	The	arrangements	extend	until	
31 March	2019	and	consist	of	a	revolving	
credit	facility	totalling	£100	million.	The	
facility	amortises	by	£7	million	in	each	
of	June	2016,	June	2017	and	June	2018.
At	30	September	2015	the	Group	
had	borrowings	under	this	facility	
of	£69.6	million	in	Sterling	(£65.0	
million)	and	US	Dollars	(£4.6	million)	
(2014:	£42.9	million	in	Sterling).
For	short-term	debt,	such	as	overdraft	
facilities	or	debt	with	a	term	of	less	
than	12	months,	fixed	or	floating	rates	
of	interest	are	used.	For	debt	with	
a	term	of	greater	than	12	months,	
when	the	borrowing	is	not	covered	by	
existing	cash	holdings,	it	is	policy	that	
management	will	review	the	Group’s	
exposure	to	interest	rate	movements	
and	fix	interest	rates	to	the	extent	
deemed	appropriate.	It	is	Group	policy	
that	its	cash	balances	are	not	invested	
in	instruments	that	would	put	the	
capital	value	at	risk.	All	invested	funds	
have	a	determinable	rate	of	interest.
Liquidity	risk
The	Group	policy	is	to	ensure	continuity	
of funding	for	operational	needs	through	
cash	deposits	and	debt	facilities	as	
appropriate.	The	key	requirement	for	the	
business	is	to	maintain	flexibility	to	allow	
the	Group	to	take	advantage	of	
opportunities	that	could	arise	over	the	
short	term.	The	needs	of	the	business	are	
determined	on	a	rolling	cash	flow	forecast	
basis,	covering	weekly,	monthly,	annual	
and	three-years’	requirements.	Short-term	
flexibility	is	maintained	by	holding	cash	in	
current	accounts	and	high	liquidity	money	
market	funds.	The	Group	has	overdraft	
facilities	in	place	both	to	permit	currency	
borrowing	as	part	of	its	foreign	exchange	
management	and	to	allow	flexibility	in	
where	it	holds	its	cash	balances.
The	Group	is	conscious	of	the	risks	
associated	with	holding	deposits	in	
foreign-domiciled	banks.	The	territories	
in	which	ITE	operates	do	not	all	have	
internationally	recognised	banks	and	the	
Group	has	relationships	with	a	number	of	
domestic	banks.	The	Group	seeks	to	use	
the	territories’	leading	banks	and	to	
minimise	the	level	of	cash	held	in	such	
banks.	Of	the	Group’s	total	cash	balance	
of	£17.3	million	as	at	30	September	2015,	
72%	was	held	in	institutions	with	a	rating	
of	grade	A	or	above	and	19%	in	B.
Going	concern	and	viability	statement
In	accordance	with	provision	C.2.2	
of	the	2014	revision	of	the	Corporate	
Governance	Code,	the	Directors	have	
assessed	the	prospect	of	the	Group	
over	both	a	one	and	a	three-year	period.	
The	one-year	period	has	a	greater	level	
of	certainty	and	is,	therefore,	used	to	
set	detailed	budgetary	targets	at	all	
levels	across	the	Group.	The	three-
year	period	offers	less	certainty	but	
is	aligned	with	the	Board’s	periodic	
strategic	review,	as	well	as	the	long-term	
incentives	offered	to	management.
The	Directors’	assessment	considered	
the	Group’s	trading	performance,	cash	
flows,	covenant	compliance	and	other	
key	ratios	over	the	period.	These	metrics	
are	subject	to	sensitivity	analysis	which	
evaluates	the	potential	impact	of	the	
Group’s	principal	risks,	as	disclosed	in	the	
Risk	Committee	Report.	On	the	basis	of	
this	and	other	matters	considered	and	
reviewed	by	the	Board	during	the	year,	
the	Board	has	reasonable	expectations	
that	the	Company	will	be	able	to	continue	
in	operation	and	meet	its	liabilities	as	
they	fall	due	over	the	periods	used	for	
the	assessment.	For	this	reason,	they	
continue	to	adopt	the	going	concern	basis	
in	preparing	the	financial	statements.	In	
doing	so,	it	is	recognised	that	such	future	
assessments	are	subject	to	a	level	of	
uncertainty	that	increases	with	time	and,	
therefore,	future	outcomes	cannot	be	
guaranteed	or	predicted	with	certainty.
Neil Jones Chief	Financial	Officer
30	November	2015	
At	30	September	2015,	the	Group’s	Sterling	value	of	the	outstanding	balances	of	
advance	payments	and	venue	loans	was	£6.4	million	(2014:	£10.2	million)	as	follows:
30	
September	
2014
£m
New
	£m
Repayments	
£m
Forex	
£m
30 
September 
2015 
£m
Russia 7.5 1.7 (2.2) (2.7) 4.3
Central	Asia 0.6 1.1 (1.3) (0.1) 0.3
Eastern	&	Southern	Europe 2.1 0.8 (0.8) (0.3) 1.8
Total 10.2 3.6 (4.3) (3.1) 6.4 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
36
Environmental impact 
The Group is pleased to have met its 
target to reduce emissions per staff 
member during 2015.
As	a	media	services	company,	the	Group	acknowledges	that	its	
business	has	an	impact	on	the	environment,	albeit	relatively	
minor,	and	ITE	follows	current	best	practice	in	each	of	its	
markets	by	observing	country	legislation	and	leading	industry	
practice.	The	Group	is	aware	that	this	is	an	area	of	increasing	
concern	to	employees,	shareholders	and	customers	alike.	By	
identifying	environmental	improvements,	we	expect	to	see	
increased	efficiencies	and	with	that	reduced	costs	and	the	
management	of	environmental	issues	is	part	of	our	business	
strategy	to	create	long-term	value	for	shareholders.	
Board-level	responsibility
The	Chief	Financial	Officer	has	direct	responsibility	for	
environmental	matters	and	chairs	the	Environmental	Matters	
Committee	which	monitors	the	Group’s	emissions,	considers	
and makes	recommendations	for	improvements	and	mitigations	
of	the	Group’s	environmental	impact,	and	commissions	and	
reviews	external	reporting	of	the	Group’s	environmental	impact	
for	regulatory	or	voluntary	disclosure.	
The	Group’s	GHG	Reporting	Protocol
The	Group	recognises	that	its	operations	have	an	impact	on	
the environment	primarily	through	the	Greenhouse	Gas	(GHG)	
emissions.	As	a	result,	the	Group	continues	to	measure	and	
report	its	material	GHG	emissions	with	the	aim	of	minimising	
energy	usage,	improving	environmental	management	across	
its offices	and	driving	efficiencies,	which	in	turn	is	expected	
to reduce	costs	and	create	long-term	value	for	shareholders.
The	scope	of	the	Group’s	reporting	continues	to	cover	GHG	
emissions	at	the	global	level,	covering	all	of	the	Group’s	
subsidiary	offices.	This	is	consistent	with	previous	years.
The	Group’s	GHG	Reporting	Protocol,	which	was	developed	
with the	assistance	of	Carbon	Smart,	is	based	on	DEFRA	and	
World	Resource	Institute	guidelines.	The	Group	measures	GHG	
emissions	based	on	financial	control	boundaries	–	so	operations	
which	are	consolidated	as	subsidiaries	in	the	Group’s	financial	
statements	have	been	included	in	the	measurement	exercise.	
Associates	and	joint	ventures	of	the	Group	have	not	been	
included	as	the	Group	does	not	exercise	sole	control	over	these	
operations.	As	the	Group	does	not	exercise	financial	control	
over	the	properties	in	which	exhibitions	are	held,	emissions	
arising	from	these	properties	have	not	been	measured.
The	Group	does	not	manufacture	or	sell	any	tangible	products	
and	has	identified	the	following	key	activities	as	being	within	
the	GHG	reporting	requirements:	
 – Scope	1:	Natural	gas;	company	cars;	onsite	fuel	consumption	
and	fugitive	emissions	(i.e.	refrigerants).	
 – Scope	2:	Purchased	electricity	and	heat	and	steam.	
At	present,	Scope	3	activities	(e.g.	business	travel;	waste;	freight	
shipping)	are	excluded	from	the	reporting	scope.	It	is	believed	
that	at	present	the	quality	of	the	data	would	not	be	sufficiently	
robust	for	accurate	reporting	in	these	areas.
Measurement	of	environmental	impact	in	2015
The	Group	has	identified	GHG	emissions	per	employee	as	the	
most	appropriate	KPI.	To	measure	this	the	Group	collected	data	
on	a	Group-wide	basis	from	most	of	its	offices	on	the	activities	
identified	above	for	the	year	ended	30	April	2015.	Results	from	
similar	offices	have	been	extrapolated	based	on	the	number	of	
employees	to	estimate	total	emissions.	In	some	offices,	where	
electricity	and	heat	charges	are	included	in	office	rental	cost	
and	the	information	is	not	provided	by	office	landlords,	an	
estimate	has	been	calculated	based	on	similar	offices’	usage	
and	office	floor	space	data.
When	compared	to	the	prior	year	the	Group	is	pleased	that	it	
was able	to	reduce	its	total	GHG	emissions	from	991	tonnes	
of CO
2
e	to	942	tonnes	of	CO
2
e	as	well	as	to	meet	its	published	
target	by	reducing	its	emissions	per	staff	member	at	constant	
UK	conversion	factors	–	from	0.90	CO
2
e	to	0.89	CO
2
e	largely	as	
a result	of	a	reduction	in	district	heat	and	steam.	
Over	the	next	three	years	the	Group	will	target	to	reduce	
its GHG	emissions	by	10%	(excluding	the	impact	of	new	UK	
conversion	factors	which	are	outside	Group	management’s	
direct	control	and	acquisitions).	
Global	GHG	emissions	data	comparisons	for	the	period	from	
1 May	2014	to	30	April	2015
Tonnes	of	CO 2 e 2015 2014
1
2013
Scope	1 191 218 444
Scope	2 726 753 743
Estimated	emissions	for	offices	
that	have	not	reported	data 24 20 42
Total	GHG	emissions	(CO
2
e) 942 991 1,229
Average	staff	number	for	
period	of	measurement 1,060 1,100 1,058
Company’s	chosen	intensity	
measurement:
Emissions	per	staff	member 0.89 0.90 1.16
1	 The	2014	comparatives	have	been	restated	in	light	of	revised	diesel	
consumption	estimates	for	some	reporting	offices. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Corporate social responsibility
Overview
The	Board	of	ITE	believes	that	corporate	social	responsibility	is	
an	important	part	of	the	Group’s	culture	and	that	the	adoption	of	
good	practice	will	have	a	positive	impact	on	profits	and	increase	
the	long-term	value	for	shareholders.	Due	consideration	is	given	
to	risks	arising	from	social,	ethical	and	environmental	issues	as	
part	of	an	ongoing	risk	review	process.
Employees
The	Board	recognises	the	importance	of	diversity	amongst	
its employees	and	is	committed	to	ensuring	that	employees	
are selected	and	promoted	on	the	basis	of	merit	and	ability,	
regardless	of	age,	gender,	race,	religion,	sexual	orientation	or	
disability.	The	gender	split	across	the	Group	as	at	30	September	
2015	is	illustrated	in	the	table	below:
Male Female
Board 5 2
Senior	management 33 22
All	employees
1
369 658
1	 Includes	Board	and	senior	management.
The	Group	has	a	policy	of	encouraging	employees,	especially	
those	from	the	locations	in	emerging	markets,	to	move	
around the	offices	of	the	Group,	thus	providing	development	
opportunities	for	all	staff.	In	addition,	employees	are	assisted	in	
their	career	development	through	an	annual	appraisal	scheme,	
and	sponsored	training	is	provided	where	there	is	a	benefit	
to both	the	individual	and	the	Company.	All	staff	are	eligible	
to receive	share	options	or	awards	under	the	Employees’	
Performance	Share	Plan	as	the	Board	feels	that	it	is	important	
for them	to	take	an	active	part	in	the	success	of	the	Company	
and	to	share	in	the	long-term	value	they	help	to	create.
The	Board	recognises	the	need	to	provide	a	safe	working	
environment	for	employees,	exhibitors	and	visitors	at	the	
Group’s	events.	Each	office	is	responsible	for	ensuring	that	their	
business	operates	in	compliance	with	Group	policies	and	the	
relevant	local	health	and	safety	legislation.	Employees	receive	
regular	health	and	safety	training.	Staff	from	all	regions	with	
lead	responsibility	for	the	operation	of	the	Group’s	exhibitions	
on-site	also	attend	regular	training	courses.
Social	interaction
The	Board	of	the	Company	is	aware	of	both	the	benefits	to	its	
business	of	engaging	with	its	various	constituencies	in	a	socially	
responsible	manner	and	the	risks	of	failing	to	do	so.	As	an	
operator	of	internationally	focused	businesses	in	emerging	
markets,	the	Company	ensures	that	it	is	culturally	sensitive	in	its	
dealings	with	the	local	community	and	that	its	employment	and	
development	policies	are	non-discriminatory	and	encourage	the	
employment	of	local	nationals	at	all	levels	in	the	Company.
The	Company	actively	supports	its	employees	in	their	support	
of	local	community	projects.	Charitable	donations	across	the	
group	totalled	over	£55,000	in	2015	(2014:	£49,500).
The	Group	has	a	strong	record	of	supporting	local	charities	in	
the	countries	in	which	it	operates,	particularly	those	which	work	
to	benefit	children.	During	2015	this	has	included	providing	
direct	financial	funding	as	well	as	providing	volunteers	to	assist	
on	specific	projects	and	workshops.
In	Russia,	the	Siberia	office	supported	a	disabled	children’s	club	
called	‘Island	of	Hope’.	Staff	organised	a	collection	to	provide	
the	children	with	Christmas	presents,	as	well	as	helping	to	
prepare	the	children	for	the	start	of	the	school	year	by	taking	
them	to	buy	stationery	and	other	materials.	Meanwhile	in	
Moscow,	the	office	donated	500,000	Rubles	to	help	pay	for	
a child’s	urgent	medical	treatment.
In	Azerbaijan,	the	local	office	sponsored	the	‘Build	Your	Future’	
project,	which	aims	to	help	talented	children	from	low-income	
families	attend	university.	In	its	first	year	66	children	were	able	
to	enrol	at	top	universities	as	a	result	of	the	support	and	
training	provided	by	the	project.
In	Kazakhstan,	the	local	office	decided	to	help	the	86	children	
at the	local	Solnyshko	orphanage	and	introduced	a	donations	
bucket	in	the	office.	This	allowed	them	to	buy	food,	personal	
hygiene	products	and	other	necessary	items	each	month	to	
donate	to	the	children.	To	build	on	the	excellent	work	done	by	
the	local	office,	the	Group	also	donated	£5,000	in	December	
2014	to	the	orphanage,	with	the	proceeds	going	to	support	
artistic	endeavours	in	the	home.
Ethics	and	human	rights	issues
Integrity	is	core	to	the	Group’s	values	which	it	actively	promotes	
in	its	dealings	with	employees,	shareholders,	customers	and	
suppliers	and	with	the	authorities	of	the	countries	in	which	it	
operates.	The	Group	recognises	that	reputation	is	a	valuable	
and	fragile	asset	gained	over	a	substantial	period	of	time	and	
is committed	to	good	practice	in	respect	of	human	rights.	
The leadership	position	of	the	Group’s	exhibitions	and	the	
long-term	growth	of	its	core	shows	is	a	testament	to	the	
success of	its	practices.
All	ITE	staff	are	required	to	comply	with	the	laws	and	
regulations	of	the	country	in	which	the	Group	operates	and	
with	the	Group’s	Human	Rights	Policy.	The	Group	promotes	
high	ethical	standards	in	carrying	out	its	business	activities	
and has	clear	guidelines	for	dealing	with	gifts,	hospitality,	
corruption,	fraud	and	the	use	of	inside	information.	These,	
together	with	the	Human	Rights	Policy,	are	available	to	all	
staff on	the	Group	intranet.
The	UK	Bribery	Act	places	obligations	on	the	Group	and	senior	
management.	Key	management	are	required	to	complete	an	
e-learning	course,	tailored	to	the	requirements	of	the	business	
and	designed	to	train	and	test	the	individuals	on	the	UK	Bribery	
Act.	The	course	covers	the	requirements	of	the	Bribery	Act	along	
with	example	scenarios	and	implications	of	Act	breaches.
The	Group	is	a	member	of	UFI	(the	Worldwide	Exhibition	
Organisers	Association)	and	through	this,	the	attendance	
figures	at	our	key	exhibitions	are	audited	by	independent	
services.	This	helps	to	provide	assurance	to	our	exhibitors	
and visitors	as	to	the	standard	of	our	exhibitions.
The	Group	aims	to	provide	high-quality	of	service	at	all	its	events	
in	all	locations.	The	Group	operates	to	a	strict	minimum	quality	
level	to	ensure	events	are	provided	to	exhibitors	and	visitors	at	
international	standards,	irrespective	of	where	they	are	held.
The	Group	ensures	that	all	advertising	and	public	
communications	avoid	untruths	or	overstatements.
ITE	builds	a	relationship	with	suppliers	based	on	mutual	
trust and	undertakes	to	pay	suppliers	on	time	and	in	
accordance	with agreed	terms	of	business.	All	information	
regarding	the	relationship	between	the	Group	and	a	supplier	
must	remain	confidential. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
38
Board of 
Directors
1
7
4
2
5
3
6 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
1	Marco	Sodi	
Non-executive Chairman
Marco	Sodi	was	appointed	as	a	
Non-executive	Director	on	1	February	
2012	and	took	over	as	Chairman	of	ITE	
Group	plc	on	23	March	2012.	Previously,	
Marco	was	a	Non-executive	Director	of	
ITE	Group	plc	from	2003	to	2006	and	has	
extensive	experience	of	the	media	and	
technology	sectors,	and	the	exhibitions	
sector	in	particular.	He	left	the	Private	
Equity	firm	Veronis	Suhler	Stevenson	in	
March	2010	after	23	successful	years	as	
both	a	General	Partner	and	Investment	
Committee	member.	He	is	currently	
Non-executive	Chairman	of	Metro	
International,	a	Non-executive	Director	
of EuroTaxGlass’s	Int’l	A.G	and	European	
Directories	S.A.	Previously	Marco	has	
served	on	the	Boards	of	Hemscott	plc,	
Centaur	Communications	plc	and	
numerous	other	European	and	
US companies.
2	Russell	Taylor	
Chief Executive Officer
Russell	Taylor	was	appointed	Chief	
Executive	of	ITE	Group	plc	in	May	2008	
having	joined	the	Group	in	2003	as	
Finance	Director.	He	has	extensive	
experience	in	the	exhibition	industry,	
having	earlier	spent	seven	years	at	Earls	
Court	Olympia	Group,	initially	as	Group	
Finance	Director	and	subsequently	
Managing	Director.	Russell	is	a	Chartered	
Accountant,	having	trained	at	Deloitte	
Touche,	where	he	became	a	Manager	
in	their	Corporate	Finance	Department.	
Subsequently	he	worked	in	corporate	
development	roles	at	P&O	Group,	Earls	
Court	Olympia	Group	and	Air	Miles	
Group,	before	joining	ITE	Group	plc.	
Russell	holds	a	BA	in	Economics.
3	Neil	Jones
Chief Financial Officer
Neil	Jones	was	appointed	as	Chief	
Financial	Officer	in	November	2008.	
He has	held	senior	financial	positions	
within	the	exhibitions	industry	for	over	
15	years.	Neil	was	formerly	Finance	
Director	at	Tarsus	Group	plc,	which	
specialises	in	the	organisation	of	
trade exhibitions	in	Europe,	America,	
UAE	and Asia.	Prior	to	that,	he	was	
European Finance	Director	for	Advanstar	
Communications,	one	of	the	largest	US	
media	groups.	Neil	is	a	member	of	the	
Institute	of	Chartered	Accountants	of	
England	&	Wales,	qualifying	with	Price	
Waterhouse	in	1990.	On	28 May	2014,	
Neil	was	appointed	as	Non-executive	
Director	of	Taptica	International	Limited,	
previously	known	as	Marimedia	plc.	
4	Sharon	Baylay
Non-executive Director
Sharon	Baylay	was	appointed	a	
Non-executive	Director	of	the	Company	
on	1	April	2014.	She	is	Non-executive	
Chairman	of	Dot	Net	Solutions	Ltd,	and	
Non-executive	Director	of	Restore	plc.	
From	2009	to	2011	Sharon	was	Marketing	
Director	and	a	Main	Board	Director	of	
the BBC,	responsible	for	all	aspects	
of Marketing,	Communications	and	
Audiences.	She	was	also	on	the	Board	
of BBC	Worldwide,	Freesat	and	Digital	UK.	
Prior	to	the	BBC,	Sharon	held	a	number	
of	senior	roles	at	Microsoft	Corporation	
over	a	period	of	15	years	from	1993	to	
2008,	including	General	Manager	of	the	
UK	Online	and	Advertising	business.	
Sharon	is	an	Advanced	Coach	&	Mentor,	
accredited	by	the	Chartered	Institute	
of	Personnel	and	Development	(CIPD)	
and	a	Member	of	Women	in	Advertising	
and	Communications,	London	(WACL).
5	Neil	England	
Non-executive Director
Neil	England	was	appointed	a	
Non-executive	Director	of	the	Company	
in	March	2008	and	is	Chairman	of	
the	Remuneration	Committee.	He	
has	a	breadth	of	sales	and	marketing	
experience	and	an	extensive	knowledge	
of	ITE’s	key	geographic	markets.	Neil	
was formerly	Vice	President	for	Mars	
Incorporated	with	responsibility	for	all	
the	CIS	countries	and	he	built	a	market-
leading	business	there.	More	recently,	
Neil	was	Group	Commercial	Director	on	
the	Main	Board	of	Gallaher	Group	plc.	
Neil	is	currently	Non-executive	Chairman	
of	three	companies,	including	BlackRock	
Emerging	Europe	plc,	an	emerging	
market	investment	company	focused	
on	Eastern	Europe.	Neil	is	a	Fellow	of	
the	Chartered	Institute	of	Marketing.
6	Linda	Jensen
Non-executive Director
Linda	Jensen	was	appointed	a	
Non-executive	Director	of	the	
Company on	7	July	2011	and	as	the	
Company’s	Senior	Independent	Director	
on	30	January	2014.	Linda	is	CEO	of	HBO	
Europe,	a	position	she	has	held	since	
February	2005,	and	is	responsible	for	all	
business	operations	of	the	HBO	channels	
in	the	European	region,	currently	covering	
14	markets.	From	2000	until	early 2005,	
she	was	the	President	of	MTV Russia,	
based	in	Moscow.	Prior	to MTV	Russia,	
Linda	gained	valuable	experience	in	the	
central	European	region	as	the	Director	of	
Development	at Central	European	Media	
Enterprises	(CME).	Fluent	in	Russian,	
Linda	holds	a	Masters	degree	in	Political	
Science	from	Columbia	University.
7	Stephen	Puckett
Non-executive Director
Stephen	Puckett	was	appointed	a	Non-
executive	Director	of	the	Company	on	
1	July	2013	and	Chairman	of	the	Audit	
Committee	on	30	January	2014.	He	is	a	
Chartered	Accountant	with	over	20	years’	
experience	as	Finance	Director	of	quoted	
companies.	In	2012	Stephen	retired	from	
the	Board	of	Page	Group	plc	(formerly	
Michael	Page	International	plc)	after	
more	than	eleven	years	as	Group	Finance	
Director,	during	which	time	he	oversaw	a	
period	of	significant	overseas	expansion	
and	growth.	Stephen	is	also	currently	
Chairman	of	Hydrogen	Group	plc	and	
a	Non-executive	Director	of	Redcentric	
plc	and	chairs	its	Audit	Committee. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
40
Corporate governance report
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and supports the principles laid down in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council in September 2012 (‘the Code’). This 
statement describes how the principles of the Code are 
applied and reports on the Company’s compliance with 
the Code’s provisions. 
The Board considers that the Company has been in 
compliance with all the principles and provisions of the Code 
throughout the year ended 30 September 2015 and to the 
date of this report. 
The Board
The Board of Directors (‘the Board’) currently has seven 
members, comprising of the Non-executive Chairman, 
the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and four 
independent Non-executive Directors. There were no 
changes to the Board during the financial year. However, 
as announced on 16 October 2015, Neil Jones informed the 
Board of his resignation with effect from 31 January 2016. 
The Board has commenced a search for Neil’s successor 
and will make a further announcement in due course. 
All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Board’s 
deliberations. The Board is of sufficient size and diversity 
that the balance of skills and experience is considered to 
be appropriate for the requirements of the business. 
The Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are 
all independent of management and free from any business 
or other relationship, including those relationships and 
circumstances referred to in provision B.1.1 of the Code that 
could materially interfere with the exercise of independent 
and objective judgement. The Company considers that 
the Chairman was independent on his appointment. 
Role of the Board
The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the 
proper management of the Company. It met seven times during 
the financial year. It has a formal schedule of matters reserved 
to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall 
management and performance of the Group and the approval 
of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy, approval 
of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material 
acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major 
capital commitments, approval of treasury policies, and 
assessment of its going concern position. Board discussions 
are held in an open and collaborative atmosphere with 
sufficient time allowed for debate and challenge.
Board members receive appropriate documentation in 
advance of each Board or Committee meeting which normally 
includes a formal agenda, a detailed report on current trading 
and full papers on matters where the Board will be required 
to make a decision or give approval. Updates from the Board 
Committees are also received at Board meetings. Board 
papers are delivered through an electronic platform, 
improving the efficiency of its communications and 
reducing paper usage.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and 
review, at least annually, by the Board of medium-term plans 
and the annual budget. Management accounts are circulated 
to the Board on a monthly basis and business performance 
and any significant variances to budget are formally reviewed 
at scheduled Board meetings. All major investment decisions 
are subject to post-completion reviews.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors present. The 
Non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman 
or Executive Directors present.
The Directors
The biographical details of the Board members are set out 
on pages 38 to 39. 
All of the Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior 
positions in UK and/or international listed companies and have 
substantial experience in business. At all times at least half the 
Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent 
Non-executive Directors. 
The Non-executive Directors were all appointed for an initial 
three-year term and (in common with the Executive Directors) 
are subject to re-election each year by shareholders at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM), and, as set out in 
the Code, the Board continuing to be satisfied that they remain 
independent. At the AGM on 28 January 2016 all the Directors 
will once again offer themselves for re-election in compliance 
with Code provision B.7.1. The Board believes that all of the 
Directors continue to be appropriate and effective in their role, 
and believe that the Company and its shareholders should 
support their re-election at the AGM. 
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of  
the Group’s pension schemes or in any of the Group’s bonus, 
share option or other incentive schemes.
The Chairman and Chief Executive
The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are 
acknowledged. A responsibility statement for each of those 
roles has been agreed and adopted by the Board. 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Linda Jensen was appointed as the Company’s Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director (SID) in 2014. 
Her responsibilities include being available to liaise with 
shareholders who have concerns which are not able to be 
resolved through the normal channels, being a sounding 
board for the Chairman and leading the annual performance 
evaluation of the Chairman.
Company Secretary 
During the financial year, the Board appointed a new Company 
Secretary with effect from 8 September 2015.  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Board effectiveness review
The formal annual review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was carried out before the year 
end. This year the process consisted of an internally run exercise led by the Chairman and assisted by the Company Secretary. 
The appraisal questionnaire used as part of the process was wide-ranging and included questions covering both Board and 
Committee performance. Individual performance was reviewed by the Chairman who, in turn, was appraised by the Senior 
Independent Director after consultation with both the other Non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors.
The appraisal confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively. The feedback received resulted in 
the agreement of a clear action plan for the year ahead focusing on the administration of the Board and Committee meetings, 
including a review and refresh of the schedule of matters and all of the Committees’ Terms of Reference and a review of the 
format of Board reports, to ensure that the Board remains well informed so high-quality decisions can continue to be made. 
Support and advice
The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that all Board 
procedures have been complied with. The Board has approved a procedure for all Directors to take independent legal and 
financial professional advice at the Company’s expense, if required to support the performance of their duties as Directors 
of the Company. No such advice was sought by any Director during the year. 
Training and development
An induction programme is arranged for newly-appointed Directors which includes presentations on the business, current 
strategy and shareholder expectations. Guidance is also given on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a Director of a 
listed company and key Board policies and procedures. Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting exhibitions in markets 
in which the Group operates to gain a greater understanding of the Group’s activities and to meet senior managers throughout 
the business. 
Every Director has access to training as required and is encouraged to continue his or her own professional development through 
attendance at seminars and briefings. During the financial year ended 30 September 2015, the Company sponsored Sharon 
Baylay to attend the Financial Times Non-Executive Director Diploma, which she successfully graduated from. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association, in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of 
interest that may arise and impose limits or conditions, as appropriate. The Company has established a procedure whereby any 
decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Director(s) voting or 
without their votes being counted. In making such a decision, as always, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good 
faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company. 
Board Committees 
There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters are delegated. They all have formal Terms of 
Reference approved by the Board which are available on the Group’s website (www.ite-exhibitions.com). The Committee reports 
are set out on pages 46 to 54.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings in the financial year ended 30 September 2015 
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Risk 
Committee
Marco Sodi 7/7 – 4/4 2/2 –
Russell Taylor 7/7 – – – –
Neil Jones 7/7 – – – 4/4
Linda Jensen 7/7 4/4 4/4 2/2 –
Sharon Baylay 7/7 4/4 4/4 – –
Neil England 7/7 – 4/4 2/2 –
Stephen Puckett 7/7 4/4 – 2/2 4/4
Total number of meetings 7 4 4 2 4
Shareholder relations 
The Company is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has an established cycle of communication based on 
the Group’s financial reporting calendar. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results. The Board also 
received institutional and analysts’ feedback following both the interim and annual results roadshows. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42
Corporate governance report continued
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 37 details the 
financial performance of the Company. The key risks 
and uncertainties the Company identifies and monitors 
are laid out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 49 
to 51. All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask 
questions at the Company’s AGM on 28 January 2016. At 
the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current 
trading conditions. The Chairmen of the Nomination, 
Remuneration, Audit and Risk Committees will be available 
to answer questions at the AGM. In addition, the Group’s 
website containing published information and press 
releases can be found at www.ite-exhibitions.com 
Whistleblowing arrangements
The Company has a policy which enables and encourages 
employees to report in confidence any possible improprieties 
in either financial reporting or other matters.
Corporate social responsibility
Neil Jones, Chief Financial Officer, is the Board sponsor for 
environmental, social governance, community investment 
and other corporate social responsibility matters.
ASB guidance on narrative reporting
The Company considers that it is in compliance with the 
additional guidance on narrative reporting for UK companies 
published by the Accounting Standards Board (ASB) in 
January 2008.
Anti-corruption policy
As part of ITE’s commitment to preventing bribery and 
establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption 
wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, 
a formal anti-corruption policy was approved by the 
Board in 2011 and appropriate procedures put in 
place, in line with guidance provided by the Ministry of 
Justice to ensure compliance with current legislation 
and the Company’s policy and related procedures. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ report
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report  
and the audited financial statements for the year ended  
30 September 2015.
Principal activities and review of the business
The principal activities of the Group comprise the organisation 
of trade exhibitions and conferences. The main subsidiary and 
associate undertakings which affect the profits or net assets of 
the Group in the year are listed in note 5 to the financial 
statements of the Company.
Details of the Group’s performance during the year and expected 
future developments are contained in the Chief Executive’s 
statement on pages 20 to 23 and in the Divisional Trading 
Summary on pages 24 to 31. Details of the Group’s financial risk 
management policies are contained on pages 49 to 51.
Results and dividends
The audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015 
are set out on pages 76 to 82. The Group profit for the year, 
after taxation, was £26.6 million (2014: £34.1 million).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.9p (2014: 4.9p). 
The total dividend for the year, including the proposed final 
dividend, is 7.9p (2014: 7.9p).
The Company is now proposing to introduce a SCRIP Dividend 
Programme, which will be available to the holders of ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company from time to time. The 
Board believes that, for those shareholders who would like 
to choose to take their dividend in shares rather than cash, 
the SCRIP Dividend Programme is an attractive alternative. 
If approved by shareholder resolution, the Programme will 
allow participants to receive ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company for every cash dividend entitlement where the SCRIP is 
offered. The Directors will retain the discretion to decide whether 
to offer a SCRIP dividend alternative in respect of each future 
dividend. However, it is the Directors’ current intention to offer 
the SCRIP alternative for each dividend paid. UK shareholders 
who elect to take new shares in the Company under the 
Programme will increase their holdings without incurring 
stamp duty. 
It is proposed that, subject to shareholder approval, the 
Programme commences with the Interim Dividend to be paid in 
August 2016. Details of how the SCRIP Dividend Programme will 
operate for shareholders will be issued to shareholders via a 
standalone mailing shortly following this Annual General Meeting. 
The full Terms and Conditions of the Programme will be made 
available on our website at www.ite-exhibitions.com or from our 
Registrars, Equiniti. In line with investor protection guidelines, 
the authority contained in this resolution is sought for three years 
and shall therefore expire at the end of the third Annual General 
Meeting of the Company after the date on which it is passed. 
Unless there is a change in circumstances, the Company expects 
to seek an extension of this authority prior to its expiry.
Capital structure
Details of the Company’s issued share capital and movements 
during the year are shown in notes 9 and 10 to the financial 
statements of the Company. The Company has one class 
of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings 
of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any 
special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all 
shares are fully paid.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26. 
The Trustee of the ITE Group Share Trust is not permitted to 
vote on any unvested shares held in the Trust unless expressly 
directed to do so by the Company. A dividend waiver is in place 
in respect of the Trustee’s holding.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as 
commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, property lease 
arrangements and employee share plans. None of these are 
considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. Furthermore, the Directors 
are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees that provide compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by a 
special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. 
The Company Directors
The Directors who served throughout the year are as follows:
Executive Directors
Russell Taylor 
Neil Jones
Non-executive Directors
Marco Sodi
Linda Jensen
Sharon Baylay
Neil England
Stephen Puckett 
Their biographical details are set out on pages 38 and 39. As 
announced on 16 October 2015, Neil Jones informed the Board 
of his resignation with effect from 31 January 2016. The Board 
has commenced a search for Neil’s successor and will make a 
further announcement in due course. 
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover is provided by the 
Company, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit 
of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of 
their duties. 
Company Directors’ shareholdings 
The Directors who held office at 30 September 2015 had the 
following interests (including family interests) in the ordinary 
shares of the Company:
Name of Director 30 September 2015 30 September 2014
Executive Directors
Russell Taylor 1,500,000 2,000,000
Neil Jones 190,868 168,368
Non-executive Directors
Marco Sodi 200,000 100,000
Linda Jensen 5,000 5,000
Sharon Baylay 10,300 5,000
Neil England 50,000 50,000
Stephen Puckett 10,000 10,000 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44
The Directors, as employees and potential beneficiaries, have an 
interest in 1,607,000 shares held by the ITE Group Employees’ 
Share Trust at 30 September 2015. ITE Group Employees’ Share 
Trust held 3,168,153 shares at 30 November 2015.
There were no changes in the interests of Directors between 
30 September 2015 and 30 November 2015.
Company’s shareholders 
At 30 November 2015, the Company had been notified 
under Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the following interests in its 
ordinary shares:
Name of holder
Number of 
shares
Percentage 
held
Ameriprise Financial Inc 12,740,969 4.96
Brandes Investment Partners 12,677,040 5.10
FMR LLC 12,856,858 5.00
Mawer Investment Management Ltd 7,755,365 3.02
Norges Bank 10,178,296 3.96
Old Mutual Asset Managers 12,086,188 4.86
Schroders Plc 25,687,435 9.99
Standard Life Investments Limited 12,297,080 3.88
Authority to purchase the Company’s shares
At the AGM on 28 January 2015, shareholders authorised 
the Company to make one or more market purchases of up 
to 24,972,052 of the Company’s ordinary shares to be held in 
treasury at a price between 1p (exclusive of expenses) and 
105% of the average closing middle market price of a share 
for the five business days immediately preceding the date 
on which the share is purchased. 
No purchases were made during the year and the Directors 
propose to renew this authority at the 2016 AGM.
Charitable and political donations
The Group made £55,000 of charitable donations (2014: 
£49,500) during the year. No political donations were made 
(2014: Nil).
Employees
The Group’s human resources strategy is to attract and 
retain talented, high-calibre employees focused on achieving 
excellent results. The Remuneration policy is designed to 
achieve this aim.
The Group places great importance on the development 
of its staff to support the business in meeting its objectives. 
This is reflected in the training initiatives in place for staff, 
both internally and externally. The Group keeps employees 
informed on matters affecting them and on matters affecting 
the Group’s performance through regular newsletters and 
through meetings, both formal and informal. Employees are 
able and are encouraged to move around the Group in order 
to experience the business environment in other offices. The 
Group actively encourages the participation of employees in 
activities of offices other than their own. The Group distributes 
long-term incentives widely to staff in all offices. At 30 
September 2015 approximately 63% of staff held long-term 
incentives in some form. As a result, the Group’s employees 
identify strongly with ITE’s overall objectives. 
It is the Group’s policy to consider fully applications for 
employment from anyone qualified to apply, regardless of 
their status, disability, age, gender, sexual orientation or belief. 
Subsequently, opportunities for advancement and development 
will be offered on merit and regardless of the factors noted 
above. The Group has family-friendly policies for those with 
children and in the event of a member of staff becoming 
disabled, every effort would be made to ensure their continued 
employment and progression in the Group. It is Group policy 
that training, career development and promotion of disabled 
employees match that of other employees as far as possible.
Supplier payment policy
The Company’s policy, which is also applied to the Group, is to 
agree payment terms with suppliers when entering into each 
transaction to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the 
terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment. The 
Company has no trade creditors. Trade creditors of the Group 
at 30 September 2015 were equivalent to 9.5 days (2014: 6.5 
days) purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced 
by suppliers during the year.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information on the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions is set 
out in the corporate social responsibility section of the Annual 
Report on page 37.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on 
28  January 2016 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders 
at the same time as this report. 
Auditors
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office. A resolution to reappoint them as the Company’s 
auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Fair, balanced and understandable statement
Each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report taken 
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director of the Company at the date when this report was 
approved confirms:
 – so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information (as defined by the Companies Act 2006) 
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
 – each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given in accordance with section 396 of 
the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Anneka Milham Company Secretary
30 November 2015
Directors’ report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or 
loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standards require that Directors:
 – properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
 – make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; 
 – the Management Report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 – each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
By order of the Board
Russell Taylor 
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2015
Neil Jones
Chief Financial Officer
30 November 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46
Audit Committee report
Membership 
Committee members
Chairman 
of the 
Committee
Meeting 
attendance
Stephen Puckett X 4/4
Linda Jensen 4/4
Sharon Baylay 4/4
The Audit Committee (‘the Committee’) was in place throughout 
the financial year and is chaired by Stephen Puckett. The Board 
considers that Stephen has the appropriate financial expertise, 
as required by Principle C3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’), as Stephen is a Chartered Accountant, has 
held executive roles in financial positions in other companies, 
and has chaired other listed companies’ audit committees. All 
members of the Committee are independent Non-executive 
Directors and they are considered to provide a wide range of 
international, financial and commercial expertise necessary to 
fulfil the Committee’s duties. Members of the Committee are 
appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee in consultation with the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee, for an initial period of three-years, 
which can then be followed by an additional two further 
three-year periods. During the financial year all Committee 
members played an active role in all Committee meetings held 
throughout the year. There were no changes during the year to 
membership of the Committee, however since the end of the 
financial year Linda Jensen has been appointed Remuneration 
Committee Chairman, and therefore will step down from the 
Audit Committee and will be replaced by Neil England. 
The Chief Financial Officer is also invited to attend meetings, 
unless he has a conflict of interest. The External Audit Partner, 
the Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Controls & 
Business Integration, and the Company Secretary are also 
invited to attend the Committee’s meetings, providing there 
is no conflict of interest. Other relevant people from the 
business were also invited to attend certain meetings or parts 
of meetings to provide a deeper level of insight into certain 
key issues and developments. To maximise effectiveness, 
meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to 
a Company Board meeting. The Chairman of the Committee 
reports to the Board, as part of a separate agenda item, 
on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular 
relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
Separately, the Chairman of the Committee has also held 
meetings with:
 – the Chief Financial Officer;
 – the Financial Controller;
 – the External Audit Partner; and
 – the Head of Internal Controls & Business Integration.
Terms of Reference
The Audit Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the 
Group’s website www.ite-exhibitions.com or can be obtained 
from the Company Secretary. The Terms of Reference are 
reviewed annually and presented to the Board for approval. 
The role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year 
and as and when required. The Committee is responsible 
for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company, and for providing effective corporate governance 
over the appropriateness of the Group’s financial reporting. The 
Committee works closely with the Risk Committee, of which the 
Committee Chairman is also a member. This ensures effective 
and sufficient coverage of financial reporting risks within the 
Group’s risk management processes.
Previously individual members of the Committee have visited a 
range of the Group’s offices and shows, including Kazakhstan, 
Ukraine, Moscow and the Group’s main UK shows, Moda, 
holding meetings with local staff and, where appropriate, 
following up on matters previously identified by external and 
internal audits. During the year, Committee members visited 
China and Turkey and the Breakbulk Europe event in Antwerp, 
and the Chief Financial Officer visited the Moscow office twice. 
Specific Committee responsibilities include:
 – reviewing the financial results announcements and financial 
statements and monitoring compliance with relevant 
statutory and listing requirements;
 – reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the 
accounting policies and practices including critical 
accounting policies and practices;
 – advising the Board on whether the Committee believes 
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy;
 – overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, 
advising the Board on the appointment of the external 
auditor, agreeing their audit scope and audit fees and 
assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process;
 – considering and making recommendations to the Board 
on the nature and extent of the significant risks to which 
the Group is exposed and monitoring management’s 
mitigation plans;
 – reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls 
and assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit process; and
 – monitoring the Group’s whistleblowing, bribery prevention 
and fraud detection processes.
Activities during the financial year
Each of the four Committee meetings held during the year has 
a particular specific focus, in order as follows: the management 
letter from the external auditor following the prior year’s audit; 
the review of the external auditor’s interim review work and 
the interim financial statements; the external audit plan; the 
results of the external audit and review of the annual financial 
statements and associated investor presentations. In addition, 
every meeting reviews summaries of the latest internal audit 
reports, the update of the risk assessment, and any 
correspondence received by the Board which falls within 
the Committee’s remit. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
In assessing the appropriateness of the financial statements the 
Committee concentrated on the following significant audit risks, 
which were agreed with Deloitte in advance of the audit and 
were the focus of their audit and on which the Committee 
received written reports from management and Deloitte as 
part of the audit process: 
 – Acquisition accounting as there is exercise of judgement 
involved in identifying and valuing the consideration and the 
assets acquired in a business combination. The Committee 
assesses the processes used in the identification and 
valuation of acquired assets and liabilities including the 
reasonableness of any assumptions used. The Committee 
also assesses the final split of consideration between goodwill 
and identified intangible assets. This year the Committee 
considered both management’s papers and reports from the 
external auditors covering the principal acquisitions: Eurasia 
Rail, Breakbulk, and Africa Oil Week and Comtrans.
 – Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and 
investments which involves measuring the carrying value 
of goodwill against the discounted cash flows of each of the 
cash-generating units (CGUs) and investments. Each regional 
office is considered to be a CGU. There are a number of 
judgements to consider including the forecast cash flows 
of the office or investment, discount rates used, the growth 
rates applied and the expected life of the shows. Forecast 
cash flows are based on Board-approved budgets and plans. 
Discount rates are selected to reflect the risk adjusted cost 
of capital for the respective territory. Growth rates and the 
respective life of the shows reflect management’s view of the 
long-term forecast rates of growth (using third party sources 
such as the International Monetary Fund) and longevity for 
the shows in the respective territory. This year the Committee 
again considered closely the performance of the Russian 
offices, in light of the economic situation, and noted a 
potential impairment on the Siberian cash-generating unit in 
the event of a reasonably possible change in assumptions.
 – Foreign exchange on transactions and consolidation 
as a significant proportion of the Group’s sales are made 
in foreign currencies, notably the Russian Ruble and Euro. 
Foreign exchange significantly impacts revenue, gross profit 
and operating activities. This year the Committee reviewed, 
in particular, the exchange gain recognised in the income 
statement and the impact of translating the Group’s 
overseas operations on consolidation.
 – The appropriate recognition of revenue is critical 
to the financial statements. The Committee believes that 
the risk is focused on the validity and cut-off of revenue. All 
revenue is recognised when the service has been delivered. 
With respect to exhibitions and conferences the Group 
usually invoices its customers in advance of the show and so 
defers the revenue until the date the event has completed. 
Floor plan audits
1
 are seen as central to the controls process 
for the accurate recognition of revenue and confirming that 
floor plan audits are being performed on a timely and robust 
basis forms a critical part of internal audit testing of 
procedures during the year on a rolling basis to each 
operating unit.
1 Floor plan audits are a process by which the floor plan map of the 
exhibition is matched and reconciled to the invoices issued to the 
exhibitors for their attendance at the exhibition to ensure completeness 
of revenue recognition.
Internal control and risk management
The Group has a formal process of internal audit which 
involves the Head of Internal Controls & Business Integration 
scoping audits of minimum acceptable control practices. These 
audits are performed on a rolling basis amongst the Group’s 
operating units either by the Head of Internal Controls or 
KPMG LLP. The reports are made available in summary form 
to the Committee and in detailed form to the Chief Financial 
Officer, relevant operating management and the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Controls & Business 
Integration assists with training and monitors correction to 
any identified issues. 
The Committee reviews the reports and considers progress 
against the recommendations. The Group operates across a 
number of territories and the role of the internal audit reviews 
and appropriate follow-up is an important part of the Group’s 
overall control environment. 
The effectiveness of the internal control process is assessed 
annually through discussions with local management teams 
and others involved in the process. The conclusion of the 
review was that the current internal audit process was 
operating effectively. 
The Group’s risk management process is covered in detail in 
the report of the Risk Committee on pages 49 to 51 
External audit
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent 
on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the 
audit cycle. A detailed audit plan is received from Deloitte, 
which sets out the key risks identified. For the financial year 
ended 30 September 2015, the primary risks were in relation 
to acquisition accounting, impairment of intangible assets and 
goodwill, foreign exchange on transactions and consolidation 
and revenue recognition. 
Deloitte provided the Committee with their views on these 
issues at the Committee meeting held to consider the financial 
statements. In addition they provided the Committee with 
details of any identified matters greater than £32,000 and any 
other adjustments that were qualitatively significant which 
management had not corrected on the basis that the matters 
were not, individually or in aggregate, material. 
Private meetings were held with Deloitte at both of the 
Audit Committee meetings which considered the financial 
statements (in November and May) to provide additional 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the 
Committee and the auditor without management being 
present. Matters discussed were the preparedness and 
efficiency of management with respect to the audit, the 
strengths and any perceived weaknesses of the financial 
management team, confirmation that no restriction on 
scope had been placed on them by management and how 
they had exercised professional judgement. The Chairman 
of the Committee also meets with the external audit partner 
outside the formal committee process through the year. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48
Audit Committee report continued
The effectiveness of the 2014 external audit process was 
formally assessed by the Committee at the beginning of 2015. 
Feedback was sought from various participants in the process 
(Audit Committee members, Executive Directors, members 
of the Finance team and management of subsidiary units). 
The effectiveness of the audit partner, the audit team, 
their approach to audits, including planning and execution, 
communication, support and value were assessed 
and discussed. 
Overall, the effectiveness of the external audit process was 
assessed as performing as expected. 
Appointment and independence of the external auditors
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external 
auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year 
and also assesses their independence on an ongoing basis. 
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years. The current 
audit partner was appointed in 2013. He was selected from a 
shortlist of three suitable and available partner candidates 
provided by Deloitte LLP and based on interviews conducted 
separately by the Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. The Committee reviewed and endorsed 
their recommendation.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed by the Company in 2002. 
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered for the audit 
since then, the Committee has undertaken a review of the 
objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process each year. 
When considering the suitability of the external auditor, 
the Committee takes account of the ability of the auditor 
to deliver an audit across the geographies in which the 
Group operates. In addition, considerable importance is 
placed on the findings set out in the Public Report on the 
most recent inspections of Deloitte carried out by the 
Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Quality Review Team 
and their reports on all other auditors in its sample. The 
Committee notes the consistently good assessment of 
Deloitte against its peers. When considering suitable external 
auditors the Committee also takes account of the ability 
of the auditor to add value through observations from the 
audit process and their interactions with management. 
The Committee is cognisant of its responsibility under 
the revised Code to tender the audit every ten years and 
notes that this period can be extended to coincide with the 
period ending the current engagement partner’s rotation if 
longer. Under transition rules set out in the Competition & 
Markets Authority (CMA) final order in response to recent 
EU regulations, the Group has to mandatorily tender the 
audit by the Annual General Meeting held after 17 June 2023. 
Taking account of this, the Committee nevertheless plans to 
tender the audit in 2017 to take effect for the year ending 
30 September 2018, after the five-year rotation period of the 
current external audit partner, although this decision shall be 
reviewed annually. For the year ending 30 September 2016, the 
Committee has provided to the Board its recommendation to 
the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the 
Group’s auditor.
During the year, Deloitte LLP and member firms of Deloitte LLP 
charged the Group £357,000 (2014: £375,000) for audit and 
audit-related services.
Non-audit services
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee has a 
formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor 
to provide non-audit services. No material changes have been 
made to this policy during the year. In addition, non-audit fees 
on any specific project cannot exceed £50,000 without the 
express approval of the Committee Chairman, who must report 
to the Committee on the use of this delegated authority at the 
next Committee meeting. 
Our policy ensures that the Committee challenges the decision 
to use Deloitte LLP where suitable, practical and reasonably 
priced alternatives exist. In addition, the Committee considers 
the overall level of non-audit fees and would not expect these 
fees to be in aggregate greater than the audit fee. Full details 
of the split between audit and non-audit fees can be found in 
note 6 on page 93. 
On behalf of the Audit Committee 
Stephen Puckett Chairman of the Audit Committee
30 November 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Risk Committee report
Membership 
Committee members
Chairman 
of the 
Committee
Meeting 
attendance
Neil Jones X 4/4
Stephen Puckett 4/4
Nik Rudge 4/4
Alexander Shtalenkov 2/4
Edward Strachan 3/4
Mark Temple-Smith 4/4 
The Risk Committee is comprised of the Chief Financial Officer, 
who chairs the Committee, Stephen Puckett – the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, and four operational Regional Business 
Directors – Nik Rudge, Alexander Shtalenkov, Edward Strachan 
and Mark Temple-Smith. The Financial Controller, Head of 
Internal Controls & Business Integration, and Company 
Secretary are also invited to attend the Committee’s meetings. 
Terms of Reference
The Risk Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the 
Group’s website www.ite-exhibitions.com or can be obtained 
from the Company Secretary. The Terms of Reference are 
reviewed annually and presented to the Board for approval. 
The role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Company Board is ultimately responsible for the 
Group’s risk management framework. The Board regularly 
reviews the Group’s key risks and to support the discharge 
of this responsibility, in addition to the Audit Committee, 
the Board established the Risk Committee in 2014. 
The purpose of the Risk Committee (‘the Committee’) is 
to identify, assess, monitor and recommend actions to 
management and the Board to identify, mitigate and manage 
risks the Group faces. The Committee works closely with the 
Audit Committee (the Chairman of which is a member of the 
Committee) which remains responsible for risks arising in 
financial reporting. The Group’s Key Risk Matrix, containing an 
estimated financial impact, is regularly shared with the Board 
and discussed. 
The Committee’s work is primarily driven by the assessment 
of its principal risks and uncertainties. These risks and 
uncertainties are the output of a full review, performed 
annually, involving a ‘top down’ review by the Executive 
Directors and a ‘bottom up’ risk assessment performed by each 
operating unit management team considering the risks facing 
their business unit. As part of this annual process, the plans to 
mitigate the identified risks are reviewed. The Committee 
reviews these assessments and makes adjustments to the 
overall risk plan as appropriate.
Activities during the financial year
The Committee met four times during the year. During these 
meetings the Committee reviewed and discussed: 
 – health and safety across the Group;
 – office risk assessments;
 – use of risk monitoring tools;
 – viability reporting and scenario planning; and
 – the Group’s insurance portfolio.
During the year the Committee reviewed the existing risk 
management activities undertaken within the Group. The 
Group’s risk matrix contains non-financial impacts of risks 
using additional risk factors such as reputational, regulatory 
and personnel risks.
Assessment of the Group’s risk profile
The key risks identified and monitored by the Group are set 
out in the following section, with an assessment of how the 
potential impact of the individual risk has changed compared 
to the previous financial year. The Committee aims to identify 
the risks that the Group faces, knowing that the identification 
and appropriate management of those risks is vital for the 
Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to support its 
long-term growth. 
The year has seen significant events impact the Group – the 
fall in the price of oil and the devaluation of emerging market 
currencies, especially the Ruble, along with the continuation of 
the situation in East Ukraine and sanctions affecting trade with 
Russia. The occurrence of these events is a reminder that the 
Group operates in emerging markets with relatively high risk 
levels. The probability and potential impact of these risks has 
increased in the year and the Group’s ability to manage and, 
when possible, mitigate these risks ensures that the Group is 
well placed to continue operating in these challenging markets.
On behalf of the Risk Committee 
Neil Jones Chairman of the Risk Committee
30 November 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50
Risk Committee report continued
Risks and uncertainties
The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in a way that 
minimises the impact of such risks where possible. 
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Change in potential 
probability and/or impact 
of risk vs prior year
Political uncertainty and 
regulatory risk
The Group’s business is principally 
carried out in Russia, the CIS, Turkey and 
Asia. Changes in law or the regulatory 
environment could have an effect on 
some or all of the exhibitions of the Group. 
ITE has reduced the risk by establishing 
its business as independent Russian, 
CIS, Turkish and Asian companies fully 
contributing to the local economy, and 
the diversity of businesses across sectors 
and geography provides protection for the 
longer-term prospects of the Group.
The situation in Russia 
and Ukraine has stabilised 
although sanctions remain 
in place. The Group has 
acquired events such as 
the Breakbulk portfolio 
and Africa Oil Week, which 
diversify the Group’s 
geographic exposure.
Economic instability 
reduces demand for 
exhibition space
Reduced demand for exhibition space 
would reduce the profits of the Group.
ITE operates across a wide range of 
sectors and countries to minimise the 
exposure to any single market. ITE, 
through its relationships with venues 
and staff, has a relatively flexible cost 
structure, allowing it to manage its event 
margins in the short and medium term.
Recession in Russia 
has reduced demand 
for exhibition space year-
on-year, but the Group 
continues to diversify and 
manage costs in the short 
and medium term. 
Financial risk – foreign 
currency risk 
The Group is exposed to movements in 
foreign exchange rates against Sterling 
for both trading transactions and for the 
translation of overseas operations. The 
principal exposure is to the Euro and the 
Ruble which form the basis of the Group’s 
invoicing and to the Ruble which forms 
the base books of the Group’s Russian 
operations.
The Group seeks to minimise exposure by:
 – Protecting a certain amount of Euro 
denominated sales with forward 
contracts.
 – Seeking to maximise the matching 
of costs and revenues in the same 
currency.
 – Employing a hybrid pricing strategy 
which ensures local customers are 
exposed to currency risk.
Given the major trading 
currencies of the Group 
there is an ongoing risk of 
currency volatility. 
Commercial relationships The Group has key commercial 
relationships with venues which secure 
the Group’s rights to run its exhibitions 
in the future.
These key relationships are regularly 
reviewed and the Group seeks to maintain 
its exhibition rights for up to at least 
three-years forward for significant 
exhibitions where possible. In the longer-
term the Group seeks to maintain good 
relationships with its principal venues to 
ensure the continuance of availability. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Risk Potential impact Mitigation
Change in potential 
probability and/or impact 
of risk vs prior year
Venue availability Damage to, or unavailability of, a 
particular venue could impact the Group’s 
short-term trading position. 
The Group carries business interruption 
insurance policies which protect profits 
on its largest events covering annual 
revenue of circa £120 million against such 
an event in the short term.
Competitor risk Competition has existed in ITE’s markets 
for some years. ITE faces competitive 
pressures on a market-by-market basis.
In all of its overseas markets, ITE has 
a strong position as an international 
organiser, achieved through effective use 
of its international sales network and 
its established brands for major events. 
A single exhibition or sector in a market 
could have its prospects curtailed by 
a strong competitor launch; however, 
the breadth of ITE’s portfolio of events, 
with its geographic and sector diversity, 
reduce the risk of a competitive threat to 
the Group’s overall business.
Integration and 
management of 
acquisitions
With new acquisitions there can be no 
assurances that the Group will achieve 
the expected return on its investment, 
particularly as the success of any 
acquisition also depends on the Group’s 
ability to integrate the acquired business 
or assets.
The Group has formal investment 
decision criteria to identify suitable, 
earnings-enhancing acquisitions targets 
and employs experienced professionals 
to drive the acquisition process and 
performs, when appropriate, financial, 
tax, legal and commercial due diligence. 
Post-acquisition plans are prepared 
to ensure businesses are effectively 
integrated into the Group and that 
planned synergies are realised.
The Group has made two 
significant acquisitions in 
the year and is currently 
integrating these into the 
Group. The size of these 
acquisitions increases 
the potential impact of 
failing to integrate these 
successfully.
People ITE’s employees have long-standing 
relationships with customers and a 
unique knowledge of the exhibitions 
business. Loss of key staff could impact 
the short-term prospects of a specific 
event or sector.
ITE has sought to build loyalty in its staff 
by ensuring remuneration is competitive 
and through a wide distribution of the 
Group’s long-term incentive plans. 
ITE has a good record of retaining its 
key staff through both growth and 
recessionary times.
Changes in our risk profile 
The ITE Group’s risk profile is regularly reviewed, meaning that the list of key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group will 
evolve over time. The list of risks above is consistent with the list of risks presented last year, with no risks being added or 
removed during the year. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52
Nomination Committee report
Membership
Committee members
Chairman 
of the 
Committee
Meeting 
attendance
Marco Sodi X 2/2
Neil England 2/2
Linda Jensen 2/2
Stephen Puckett 2/2
The Nomination Committee (‘the Committee’) was in place 
throughout the financial year and is chaired by the Chairman 
of the Company, who was deemed to be independent on 
appointment to the Board. All of the members of the 
Committee who served during the year were independent 
Non-executive Directors, as required under section B2.1 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Chief Executive is also invited to attend meetings, 
unless he has a conflict of interest. The Company Secretary 
and human resources Director may be invited, but only as 
appropriate and only if they do not have a conflict of interest. 
The Committee is also assisted by executive search 
consultants as and when required. 
Terms of Reference
The Nomination Committee’s Terms of Reference are 
available on the Group’s website www.ite-exhibitions.com or 
can be obtained from the Company Secretary. The Terms of 
Reference are reviewed annually and presented to the Board 
for approval. 
The role and responsibilities of the Committee
The Nomination Committee meets twice a year and as 
required. The Committee is responsible for considering 
and recommending to the Board suitable candidates for 
appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
When the need to appoint either an Executive or a Non-
executive Director arises, the Committee review what skills, 
understanding and experience is required for the position, 
whilst taking into account the Board’s existing composition. 
Appointments to the Board follow a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure, which involves the Nomination 
Committee interviewing candidates proposed by either 
existing Board members or by external search consultants. 
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have 
sufficient time available to devote to the role and that the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is 
maintained or improved. ITE has adopted a Board Diversity 
Policy which recognises and embraces the benefits of having a 
diverse Board, and sees increasing diversity at Board level as 
an important element in maintaining a competitive advantage. 
A truly diverse Board in its broadest sense will include and 
make good use of differences in the skills, regional and 
industry experience, background, race, gender and other 
qualities of Directors. These differences will be considered in 
determining the optimum composition of the Board and when 
possible should be balanced appropriately. All Board 
appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills 
and experience the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the 
Company Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director will chair the Committee instead of the Company 
Chairman. When the Committee has found a suitable 
candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a 
proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the 
responsibility of the Board following recommendation from 
the Committee.
Activities during the financial year
The Committee met twice during the financial year. During 
these meetings the Committee reviewed and discussed: 
 – the balance of skills and experience on the Board and 
considered if any changes were necessary;
 – the annual Board evaluation responses; 
 – the re-election of all Directors at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting; 
 – the Company’s succession plans for the Company’s Board, 
its Senior Management Board and other key roles across 
the Group; and
 – talent development and management across the Group.
 
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
Marco Sodi Chairman of the Nomination Committee
30 November 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Statement
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration Committee Report and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015. 
The Group delivered revenues of £135.8 million (2014: £174.8 
million) and yielded headline profits before tax of £47.2 million 
(2014: £60.3 million) and headline diluted earnings per share of 
15.3p (2014: 20.2p). 
The political and economic issues in some of the Company’s 
main markets (Russia and Ukraine in particular) together with 
currency devaluations have had a material effect on reported 
growth and resulted in a shortfall to the financial targets set for 
both the bonus and the Performance Share Plan (PSP). As 
reported elsewhere, part of the Company Strategy is to reduce 
the impact of these markets by growing ITE’s geographic 
footprint through targeted acquisitions and resources applied 
to organic growth (particularly in Asia). Inevitably the impact of 
this will take time to work through into the balance of earnings.
The bonus scheme is set annually and this provides the 
Remuneration Committee with the opportunity to reset 
financial targets and personal objectives each new financial 
year to reflect changing market conditions. The volatility in 
some of the Company’s key markets means that geographic 
expansion and organisational change are important objectives. 
The Committee have therefore determined to increase the 
personal objectives element of the bonus scheme from 20% 
to 30% of the total. This is within the scope of the current 
policy and is aligned with many other FTSE constituents.
The PSP sets growth targets over a longer time period 
and is less flexible. At the time of setting the targets 
the Russian crisis and currency devaluation was not 
expected and this one-year impact will probably result in 
the three running PSP producing either no, or a limited, 
incentive. This aligns the PSP with shareholder returns 
during this period and no retrospective adjustment to the 
targets is proposed despite the impact of external events 
being completely outside of Management control. 
The 2015 results include a non-recurring foreign exchange gain 
and this has been removed from the base before setting the 
2016 PSP growth targets. The effect is a reduction in the base 
year from 14.4p to 12.8p. With the growth targets for the PSP 
set with a range of 4% to 10%, the Committee judges that this 
provides a stretching but potentially attainable target with 
which to incentivise the Executive Directors. 
This is the Company’s third year of reporting in line with The 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Report is divided into two sections. The first 
is the Policy Report which was approved by shareholders 
at the AGM on 30 January 2014 and which outlines the 
Group’s remuneration policy applying from 1 October 
2014 for Executive Directors. Whilst the remuneration 
policy is unchanged, for clarity we have updated the charts 
illustrating the application of the remuneration policy to 
reflect the latest salaries. The second section is the Annual 
Report on Remuneration which reviews how the policy was 
implemented in the financial year ended 30 September 
2015 and includes a table showing a single figure of total 
remuneration for Executive Directors. It also summarises 
how the remuneration policy will be implemented in 2016.
At last year’s AGM 99.8% of shareholders voted in favour of the 
2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 
will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM to 
ensure accountability for the remuneration policy. I hope that 
you will continue to support the Committee’s work by voting in 
favour of this year’s report. 
Since the financial year end, I have retired as the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and Linda Jensen will take this 
responsibility with effect from 1 November 2015. 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
Neil England FY15 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
30 November 2015 
Membership
Committee members
Chairman 
of the 
Committee
Meeting 
attendance
Neil England X 4/4
Marco Sodi 4/4
Linda Jensen 4/4
Sharon Baylay 4/4
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) was in place 
throughout the financial year and was chaired by Neil England. 
Committee members are all Non-executive Directors or 
the Company Chairman, as instructed in Provision D.2.1 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). Members 
of the Committee are appointed by the Board, on the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee in consultation 
with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, for an 
initial period of three-years, which can then be followed by 
an additional two further three-year periods. During the 
financial year all Committee members played an active role in 
all Committee meetings held. There were no changes during 
the year to membership of the Committee, however with 
effect from 1 November 2015, Neil England will step down as 
Chairman to be replaced by Linda Jensen and he will leave the 
Committee at the end of 2015 to join the Audit Committee. 
Providing there is no conflict of interest, the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Human Resources Director and the Company 
Secretary are invited to attend the Committee’s meetings 
to assist the Committee in making informed decisions. 
To maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee 
generally take place just prior to a Company Board 
meeting. The Chairman of the Committee reports to the 
Board, as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity 
Remuneration Committee report ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54
of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to 
the Board in the conduct of their work. No individual is 
present when their own remuneration is being discussed. 
The Chairman of the Committee also met separately with 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources 
Director, and the Committee’s remuneration consultants. 
Advisors
Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer which is part of the MMC 
group of companies (Kepler), were appointed by the Committee 
as independent remuneration advisors following a tender 
process in 2012 and were retained during the 2015 financial 
year. Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman, and is 
a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at 
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Kepler attends 
Committee meetings as appropriate, and provides advice on 
remuneration policy, best practice and market updates. The 
Committee evaluates the support provided by Kepler annually 
and is comfortable that they do not have any connections with 
the ITE Group that may impair their independence. Other than 
advice on remuneration, no other services were provided by 
Kepler (or any other part of the MMC group of companies) to the 
Group. The fees paid to Kepler for support to the Committee in 
the financial year ended 30 September 2015 were £30,500 
excluding VAT on the basis of time and materials. 
Terms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference are available 
on the Group’s website www.ite-exhibitions.com or can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary. The Terms of Reference 
are reviewed annually and presented to the Board for approval. 
The role and responsibilities of the Committee 
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a 
year and as and when required. The Committee has delegated 
responsibility from the Board to set the Remuneration Policy for 
all Executive Directors and the Company Chairman. The 
objective of such policy shall be to ensure that members of the 
executive management of the Company are provided with 
appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance 
and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the success of the Company. For 
clarification, the Company Chairman and the Executive 
Directors are responsible for setting the remuneration of the 
Non-executive Directors.
Committee responsibilities include: 
 – determine and agree with the Board the policy for the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of 
the executive management (including pensions);
 – review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the 
Remuneration Policy;
 – approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes operated by the 
Company and approve the total annual payments made 
under the schemes;
 – review the design of all share incentive plans for approval 
by the Board and the Company’s shareholders; 
 – oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures 
throughout the Group; 
 – measuring subsequent performance as a prelude to 
determining the Executive Directors’ and Executive 
Management total remuneration on behalf of the Board;
 – determining the structure and quantum of short-term 
remuneration; and
 – granting awards under long-term incentive plans and 
options under the various ITE Group share option schemes. 
Activities during the financial year
The main issues discussed and/or approved during the 
financial year under review included:
 – approval of the prior year Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, review of shareholder comments and AGM voting 
on the Report;
 – annual review of the Company Chairman and Executive 
Directors’ salaries or fee arrangements and benefits;
 – review of the Executive Directors’ and Executive 
Management performance against the targets set under the 
2015 Annual Bonus Scheme;
 – review of the design and targets for the 2016 Annual 
Bonus Scheme;
 – review and approval of grants made during the year 
under the Performance Share Plan and Discretionary 
Share Option Scheme;
 – approval of the vesting level for Performance Share Plan 
awards vesting on performance to 30 September 2014; 
 – review of the performance targets to be applied for the 
awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan 
in January 2015; and
 – review of the personal objectives of the Executive 
Directors which for the Chief Executive Officer proposed by 
the Company Chairman and for the Chief Financial Officer 
were proposed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Remuneration Committee report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
In line with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 the 
following parts of the Annual Report on Directors’ remuneration are audited: the single total figure of remuneration for each 
Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 30 September 2015; 
scheme interests awarded during the year; pension entitlements; payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office; 
and Directors’ shareholdings and share interests. All other parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Policy report
This section provides ITE’s remuneration policy for Directors which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). The Group’s principal Remuneration Policy aim is to ensure that the compensation offered is appropriate to 
attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and employees with the ability and experience to deliver the Group’s strategy 
and grow the business, having regard to the prevailing economic conditions and competition for such people in the markets in 
which the Group operates.
In formulating its policies the Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) has regard to and balances the following factors:
a) the need to align the interests of the executive with those of the shareholders;
b) the performance of the individual executive and of the Group as a whole;
c) the remuneration practice in the markets in which the executive is principally based; and
d) the remuneration packages offered to executives in companies competing in the same markets as the Group.
Summary of ITE’s Remuneration Policy applying from 1 October 2014
The elements of the Remuneration Policy for Directors are set out below.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Fixed Pay
Base salary/
fees
Set at competitive levels 
in the markets in which ITE 
operates, in order to attract 
and retain executives, 
capable of delivering the 
Group strategy.
Reviewed annually with 
changes normally effective 
from 1 October of each year.
Reviews take account of:
 – scope of the role and 
the markets in which ITE 
operates;
 – p e r f o r m a n c e a n d 
experience of the 
individual;
 – pay levels at 
organisations of a similar 
size and complexity; and
 – pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group.
There is no prescribed 
maximum. Any salary 
increases are applied in 
line with the outcome of 
the review and taking into 
account wider factors, 
for example, local market 
inflation.
Not applicable.
Benefits Designed to be competitive 
in the market in which the 
individual is employed.
Benefits include life 
insurance, private medical 
insurance and income 
protection insurance. Where 
appropriate, other benefits 
may be offered including, but 
not limited to, allowances 
for car, accommodation, 
relocation, other expatriate 
benefits and participation in 
all-employee share schemes.
Benefits are not pensionable.
Benefits vary by role and 
individual circumstance 
and eligibility is reviewed 
periodically. Benefits are not 
anticipated to exceed 5% of 
salary p.a. over the period for 
which this policy applies.
The Committee retains 
the discretion to approve a 
higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. 
relocation to an emerging 
market) or in circumstances 
where factors outside of 
the Group’s control have 
materially changed (e.g. 
increases in medical 
premiums).
Not applicable.
Pension To provide cost effective 
retirement benefits.
Participation in defined 
contribution plan or cash 
allowance in lieu.
Up to 10% of base salary. Not applicable.
Directors’ remuneration report ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Variable pay
Annual 
performance 
bonus
Designed to reinforce 
individual performance 
and contribution to the 
achievement of sustainable 
profit growth and strategic 
objectives.
Measures are reviewed prior 
to the start of the financial 
year to ensure they remain 
appropriate and reinforce 
the business strategy. 
Performance targets are set 
annually to ensure they are 
appropriately stretching and 
reflect strategic objectives. 
At the end of the year the 
Committee determines 
the extent to which these 
were achieved.
Awards are payable in cash 
and are not pensionable.
Payments made under the 
annual bonus are subject 
to clawback for the later of 
one year following the date 
of award or the completion 
of the next audit of the 
Group’s accounts, in the 
event of a fraud or material 
misstatement of results 
being identified in relation to 
the year in which the bonus 
was earned.
Maximum potential 
opportunity of up to 100% of 
base salary.
Threshold bonus opportunity 
is 0% and Target bonus 
opportunity is 50% of 
maximum.
The annual bonus for 
FY15 was based:
80% on financial KPIs
20% on personal KPIs
The annual bonus for FY16 will 
be based: 
70% on financial KPIs 
30% on personal KPIs
The Committee may vary 
the original weightings of 
80% and 20% by ±10% from 
year-to-year.
In exceptional circumstances, 
the Committee has the ability 
to exercise discretion to 
override the formulaic bonus 
outcome within the limits of 
the Plan where it believes the 
outcome is not truly reflective 
of performance and to ensure 
fairness to both shareholders 
and participants.
Directors’ remuneration report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
PSP
1
Ensures that the Executive 
Directors’ interests are 
aligned with those of 
shareholders through 
rewarding sustained growth 
in headline diluted EPS over 
the medium to long-term, 
delivery in shares and, for the 
CEO, the additional relative 
TSR performance condition.
Awards of nominal cost (or nil 
cost) options may be granted 
annually as a percentage of 
base salary. Vesting is based 
on performance measured 
over three-years. The 
performance period normally 
starts at the beginning of the 
financial year in which the 
date of grant falls.
Dividends accrue on PSP 
awards and are paid on those 
shares which vest.
Award levels and 
performance conditions are 
reviewed before each award 
cycle to ensure they remain 
appropriate.
Payments made under 
the PSP are subject to 
clawback, for the later of 
one year following date of 
vesting or the completion 
of the next audit of the 
Group’s accounts, in the 
event of a fraud or material 
misstatement of results 
being identified in relation to 
the years in which the PSP is 
earned.
Award opportunities are up 
to 150% of base salary for 
the CEO (after consideration 
of the TSR performance 
condition) and up to 100% 
of base salary for other 
Executive Directors.
Awards of up to 200% of base 
salary may be provided in 
exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. recruitment).
20% of maximum vests for 
Threshold performance for 
the CEO (30% of maximum 
for other participants), 
rising on a straight line basis 
to full vesting for Stretch 
performance.
Awards to Executive Directors 
are subject to three-year 
cumulative headline diluted 
EPS performance.
Awards to the CEO are subject 
to an additional relative TSR 
performance condition which 
runs concurrently, such 
that relative TSR without 
EPS growth is not rewarded. 
The TSR comparator group 
is normally the FTSE 250. 
There is no uplift if ITE’s TSR 
is median or below, rising 
on a straight line basis to a 
maximum uplift of 50% if ITE’s 
TSR is upper quartile or above.
In addition, for there to be 
any vesting on TSR, the 
Committee needs to satisfy 
itself that the recorded TSR 
outcome is a fair reflection 
of underlying business 
performance over the 
performance period.
When assessing this, the 
Committee will consider 
factors including, but not 
limited to, underlying profit 
and cash flow.
In exceptional circumstances, 
the Committee has the ability 
to exercise discretion to 
override the formulaic PSP 
outcome within the Plan 
limits to ensure alignment 
of pay with the underlying 
performance of the business 
during the performance 
period.
Non‑executive 
Directors’ fees
To reflect the time 
commitment in preparing for 
and attending meetings, the 
duties and responsibilities of 
the role and the contribution 
expected from the 
Non-executive Directors.
Annual fee for Chairman.
Annual base fee for 
Non-executive Directors. 
Additional fees are paid 
to the Senior Independent 
Director and the Chairmen of 
the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees to reflect 
additional responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed annually, 
taking into account, time 
commitment, responsibilities 
and fees paid by comparable 
companies.
There is no prescribed 
maximum. Non-executive 
Director fee increases 
are applied in line with 
the outcome of the review 
and taking into account 
wider factors, for example, 
inflation.
Not applicable.
1 Provided under the Employees’ Performance Share Plan 2014 (or under the Key Contractors’ Performance Share Plan 2014 which is subject to the same terms). ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58
Notes to policy table
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any 
commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the 
approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy 
detailed in this report will be honoured.
Performance measure selection and approach to 
target setting
Performance targets are set at such a level as to be stretching 
and achievable, with regard to the particular strategic 
priorities and economic environment.
Annual Bonus
The measures used under the Annual Bonus Plan are selected 
annually to reflect the Group’s key strategic priorities for the 
year and reinforce financial performance and achievement of 
annual objectives as well as individual performance. Financial 
measures include, but may not be limited to, headline profit 
before tax to reinforce achievement of sustainable 
profit growth.
The Annual Bonus Target is based on the annual budget 
approved by the Board. Prior to the start of the financial 
year, the Committee sets an appropriate performance zone 
(Threshold to Stretch) around the target, which it considers 
provides an appropriate degree of ‘stretch’ challenge and an 
incentive to outperform.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The Committee considers that headline diluted EPS is the most 
appropriate measure of long-term performance of the Group 
as it is well aligned with shareholder interests and provides 
good line of sight. The scheme is simple and is well understood 
by participants. The additional relative TSR performance 
condition further reinforces alignment with shareholder 
interests and helps to provide a balanced and progressive 
relationship between pay and performance.
The Committee reviews the performance targets applying to 
the PSP annually, prior to the start of the performance period, 
taking into account a number of internal and external 
reference points to help ensure they are appropriately 
stretching. Three-year cumulative headline diluted EPS 
performance targets are calculated as follows:
 – adjust the headline diluted earnings per share figure 
achieved in the base year to remove the biennial effect and 
non-recurring foreign exchange gains or losses;
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 – apply a compound increase to establish a ‘Threshold’ target 
for each of the three years;
 – apply a compound increase to establish a ‘Stretch’ target for 
each of the three years; and
 – aggregate the performance target figures for each year to 
produce the cumulative headline diluted earnings per share 
performance targets for Threshold and Stretch vesting.
Ahead of the start of each new PSP cycle, the Committee will 
reconfirm the TSR comparator group to ensure it remains 
relevant and robust.
Differences in Remuneration Policy operated for 
other employees
ITE’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the 
Group. All employees are eligible to participate in an annual 
bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the 
Executive Directors or a commission-based incentive package. 
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by 
organisational level with business area specific metrics 
incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers and other employees are eligible for 
consideration of awards of performance shares (under the PSP) 
or share options to further support alignment with shareholder 
interests (see note 26 in the notes to the consolidated accounts 
for more information on all-employee share plans).
Executive Director Shareholding Guidelines
The Committee recognises the importance of aligning the 
interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the 
building up of a significant shareholding in the Group. Executive 
Directors are required to retain shares of a value equal to 25% 
of any gain made, after tax on the vesting of awards under the 
Plans, until they have built up a minimum shareholding of a 
value equivalent to at least 100% of annual base salary. In 2013, 
the Group strengthened the shareholding guideline for the CEO 
to a minimum holding equivalent to 150% of base salary. Details 
of the current personal shareholdings are provided on page 67. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Remuneration Policy for new Executive Directors
When appointing a new Executive Director, including by way of internal promotion, the Committee may make use of all the 
existing components of remuneration as follows:
Component Approach Maximum value
Base salary Determined in line with the stated policy, and taking into account their previous 
salary. Initial salaries may be set below market and consideration given to 
phasing any increases over two or three-years subject to development in the 
role.
Not applicable.
Benefits In line with the stated policy.
Pension In line with the stated policy.
Annual bonus In line with stated policy, with the relevant maximum pro rata to reflect the 
proportion of the year served.
100% of base salary.
PSP In line with the stated policy. 150% of base salary
(200% in exceptional circumstances).
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant 
factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure 
that arrangements are in the best interests of both ITE and its shareholders. The Committee may consider it appropriate to 
grant an award under a structure not included in the policy, for example to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on 
leaving a previous employer, and will exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.2R where necessary. In doing so, the 
Committee will consider relevant factors including the expected value of all outstanding equity awards using a Black -Scholes or 
equivalent valuation and, where applicable, taking into account toughness of performance conditions attached to these awards and 
the likelihood of those conditions being met. The Committee has confirmed that the use of Listing Rule 9.4.2R will be limited to the 
‘buy out’ of incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer and that such buy out awards would have a fair value 
no higher than the awards forfeited.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual 
commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director.
In cases of appointing a new Non-executive Director, the approach will be consistent with the policy.
Service contracts and exit payments policy
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code Provision B.7.1, all Directors are subject to re-election annually at the 
Company’s AGM. The Chairman has a six-month notice period and the Non-executive Directors have a one-month notice period. 
Each Non-executive Director is engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment, which are available to view at the Group’s 
registered office and at the AGM.
The effective dates of their letters of appointment are as follows:
Director
Date of letter  
of appointment
Notice  
period
Marco Sodi 1 February 2012 Six months
Neil England 18 March 2008 One month
Linda Jensen 7 July 2011 One month
Stephen Puckett 16 May 2013 One month
Sharon Baylay 24 March 2014 One month
Executive Director service contracts have no fixed term and have a notice period of 12 months from either the Executive Director 
or the Group. The Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Group’s registered office and at the AGM. The 
dates of the Executive Director service contracts and the relevant notice period are as follows:
Director
Effective date  
of contract Notice period
Russell Taylor 25 March 2003 12 months
Neil Jones 3 November 2008 12 months
The Committee’s policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements and the rules 
of the relevant incentive plans. In doing so, the Committee’s objective is to avoid rewarding poor performance. Furthermore, the 
Committee will take account of the Executive Director’s duty to mitigate his loss.
Termination payments are limited to base salary and benefits during the notice period. If an Executive Director’s contract 
is terminated, he is eligible for a pro rata annual bonus over the period to the date of cessation of employment, subject 
to performance. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60
In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Group’s incentive plans and share 
schemes contain provisions for termination of employment.
Component Bad leaver Good leaver Change of control
Annual bonus
1
No annual bonus payable. Eligible for an award to the extent 
that performance conditions have 
been satisfied and pro rata for the 
proportion of the financial year served, 
with Committee discretion to treat 
otherwise.
Eligible for an award to the extent that 
performance conditions have been 
satisfied up to the change of control 
and pro rata for the proportion of the 
financial year served, with Committee 
discretion to treat otherwise.
PSP
2
Outstanding awards are forfeited. Outstanding awards will normally 
continue and be tested for performance 
over the full period, and pro rata for time 
based on the proportion of the period 
served, with Committee discretion to 
treat otherwise.
Outstanding awards will normally vest 
and be tested for performance over the 
period to change of control, and pro 
rata for time based on the proportion 
of the period served, with Committee 
discretion to treat otherwise.
1 Treatment for future hires from 1 October 2014; current incumbents would be eligible for a pro rata award as described earlier. Any commitment made 
prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the policy comes into force will be honoured.
2 Under the 2004 PSP which expired in February 2014, awards normally lapse on leaving unless the plan participant is considered a good leaver. Upon death 
of a plan participant, awards would normally vest in full at that time. If an individual retires as determined by the Committee, outstanding PSP awards 
would normally continue and be pro rata for performance over the full period. The Committee can instead determine that the award will vest at the time 
of cessation, to the extent that performance targets are achieved and taking into account the length of the period served. Awards to other good leavers 
will normally vest to the extent that performance targets are achieved on the date of cessation. On a change of control, outstanding awards will normally 
vest to the extent that performance targets are achieved and taking into account the period served to the date of change of control.
An individual would normally be considered a good leaver if they leave for reasons of death, injury, ill -health, disability, redundancy, 
part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be a member of the Group, circumstances that are 
considered by the Committee to be retirement, or any other reason as the Committee decides. Bad leaver provisions apply under 
other circumstances, including, but not limited to, resignation.
External Appointments
The Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board and provided only that such 
appointments do not prejudice the individual’s ability to fulfil his duties at the Group. Whether any related fees are retained by 
the individual or remitted to the Group will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
During the year Neil Jones continued his role as a Non-executive Director of Taptica International Limited (formerly Marimedia 
Limited), an AIM listed company.
Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy
The chart below shows the remuneration that the Executive Directors could be expected to obtain based on varying 
performance scenarios. Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the relationship 
between pay and performance.
£000
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term variable remuneration
0
In line with
expectations
Maximum Minimum In line with 
expectations
Maximum Minimum
Russell Taylor (Chief Executive Ofﬁcer) Neil Jones (Chief Financial Ofﬁcer)
496
100% 58% 31%
100% 58% 36%
27%
26%
32%
16%
26%
42%
16%
32%
856
1,621
284
490
799
Directors’ remuneration report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy applying from 1 October 2014, applied to the latest 
known base salaries and incentive opportunities. The projected value of the PSP excludes the impact of share price growth and 
dividend accrual. Actual pay delivered, however, will be influenced by these factors.
Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the tables below:
Fixed
Component Basis
Base salary Latest known salary
Pension Contribution rate applied to latest known salary
Other benefits Benefits as provided in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 62
Variable
Component Minimum Target Maximum
Annual bonus No bonus payable Target bonus (50% of maximum) Maximum bonus payable 
(100% of maximum)
PSP No PSP vesting Threshold PSP vesting (20% of maximum for CEO, 30% for others) Maximum PSP vesting
(100% of maximum)
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group
When reviewing and setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and 
employment conditions of all employees of the Group. The Group-wide pay review budget is one of the key factors when reviewing 
the salaries of the Executive Directors. Although the Group has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding Board 
remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
Consideration of shareholder views
It is the Committee’s policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any changes to its Executive Director remuneration 
structure. During autumn 2013, the Committee consulted with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) and Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) on the proposed introduction of a new long-term 
incentive plan. At the 2014 AGM, over 99% of votes cast were in favour of the new Performance Share Plan (PSP) which the 
Committee felt reflected the constructive consultation exercise with shareholders. The Remuneration Policy is unchanged for 2016.
Annual Report on Remuneration
Statement of shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM
The following table shows the results of shareholder voting at the AGM held on 29 January 2015.
Resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total number  
of votes
% of  
votes cast
For (including discretionary) 195,022,096 99.81%
Against 368,040 0.18%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 195,390,136 100.00%
Votes withheld 368,541
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 195,758,677 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the year ended 30 September 
2015 and the prior year.
1. Base salary 2. Benefits
1
3. Pension 4. Annual bonus
2
5. Long-term 
incentives
3
Total  
remuneration
Executive Directors
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Russell Taylor 449 440 1 1 45 44 72 298 0 194 567 977
Neil Jones 255 250 1 1 26 13 41 170 0 114 323 548
1. Fees
4
2. Benefits 3. Pension 4. Annual bonus
5. Long-term 
incentives Total remuneration
Non-executive Directors
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Marco Sodi 157.5 152 – – – – – – – – 157.5 152
Sharon Baylay 45 22 – – – – – – – – 45 22
Neil England 51 50 – – – – – – – – 51 50
Linda Jensen 48.5 46 – – – – – – – – 48.5 46
Stephen Puckett 51 48 – – – – – – – – 51 48
1 Taxable benefits include private medical insurance contributions.
2 Annual bonus paid for performance over the relevant financial year. Annual bonus is paid in cash and subject to clawback for the later of one year from 
award or completion of the next audit of the Group’s accounts in the event of a fraud or material misstatement of results. Further details on performance 
criteria, achievement and resulting awards can be found on page 63.
3 Value of long-term incentive awards which vested on performance to 30 September (or may vest shortly thereafter) of the relevant year. Awards granted 
in January 2013 lapsed on performance to 30 September 2015. For the comparison year, 70% of the January 2012 PSP grant vested on performance to 
30 September 2014 and the share price at vesting on 12 January 2015 was 142.75p. 
4 See the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 65 for further details of Non-executive Director fees.
Long-term incentive outcomes for the financial year ended 30 September 2015
Vesting of PSP awards granted January 2013
The three-year performance period of PSP awards granted on 10 January 2013 ended on 30 September 2015. From 1 October 
2012 to 30 September 2015, ITE’s three-year cumulative headline diluted EPS of 55.7p was below the stretch requirement of 57p to 
64p. The PSPs did not therefore vest.
Executive Directors’ base salaries
During the year, Russell Taylor, the Chief Executive Officer, received £448,800 in salary. On 1 October 2015, he was awarded an 
increase to £450,000 p.a., a 0.3% increase. His next salary review date will be 1 October 2016.
During the year, Neil Jones, the Chief Financial Officer, received £255,000 in salary. On 1 October 2015, he was awarded an 
increase to £257,500 p.a., a 1% increase.
Executive Director salary increases were broadly in line with the typical increase across the UK employee population.
Pension and other benefits
During the year, the Group made pension contributions equal to 10% of Russell Taylor’s base salary and 10% of Neil Jones’ 
base salary.
Benefits are in line with the policy.
Annual performance bonus
Russell Taylor and Neil Jones participated in a performance-related annual bonus scheme – the Executive Bonus Plan – designed 
to reinforce delivery of sustainable profit growth and achievement of strategic objectives.
Directors’ remuneration report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
FY2015 annual bonus framework
For the 2015 financial year, the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 100% of salary for Russell Taylor and Neil Jones. In each 
case the annual bonus was based 80% on financial targets and 20% on personal targets.
The financial element was based upon the achievement of headline profit before tax. A range for headline profit before tax was 
set at £50 million to £56 million with 0% of potential at £50 million, 50% of potential at £53 million, 100% of potential at £56 
million, and straight line vesting in between. The Committee considered these targets to provide an appropriate degree of 
‘stretch’ challenge and an incentive to outperform. The table below summarises the financial performance targets set and actual 
performance during the financial year.
Performance targets
Actual  
bonus  
as % of 
maximum Financial measure Weight Threshold Target Stretch
Actual 
performance
£m
Headline profit before tax 80% £50m Nil payout £53m 50% payout £56m 100% payout £47.2m 0
Personal objectives for Russell Taylor were set by the Company Chairman, and for Neil Jones by the Chief Executive Officer. 
In both cases these were reviewed and approved by the Committee in advance, who also approved recommendations on the 
level of achievement against them at the end of the performance period.
Russell Taylor’s personal objectives for the year ended 30 September 2015 were related to continuing to develop business 
in emerging markets outside of Russia, managing the cost structure of the business in the context of the economic situation in 
Russia and Ukraine, developing coherent vertical and brand management in a number of sectors, maintaining key venue 
relationships and continuing to develop the Group’s data systems and structures. Payout under this element of the bonus 
was assessed at 80% of the potential award on personal objectives.
Neil Jones’ personal objectives for the same period included the careful management, and reduction, of costs across the business, 
delivering on the Group’s digital strategy, to continue the global roll-out of the new accounting system and ensuring integration 
benefits on specified acquisitions. Payout under this element of the bonus was assessed at 80% of the potential award on 
personal objectives.
After taking account of their personal targets, Russell Taylor and Neil Jones earned £71,800 and £40,800 of their respective 
potential bonus opportunities. 
FY2016 annual bonus framework
For the financial year commencing 1 October 2015, the Executive Bonus Plan will operate in line with the remuneration policy.  
The Remuneration Committee have agreed that bonuses will be based 70% on headline profit before tax and 30% on personal 
objectives. Bonus opportunities remain unchanged. The Committee intends to disclose financial performance targets and 
personal objectives retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, subject to these no longer being considered  
by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentives
Scheme interests awarded during the year
The Group operates the ITE Group plc Employees’ Performance Share Plan 2014 for the Executive Directors. Awards can be made 
to the CEO over shares worth up to 150% of base salary and for Executive Directors up to 100% of base salary each year.
Awards granted on 13 January 2015 are subject to cumulative headline diluted EPS for the three financial years ending 30 September 
2017 for Executive Directors, and against an additional relative TSR performance condition for the CEO. The performance targets 
are provided below:
Vesting percentage (of maximum)
Cumulative headline diluted 
EPS
1
 for three financial years Equivalent constant growth
0% Less than 62p Less than 4% p.a.
30% (20% for CEO) 62p 4% p.a.
100% 70p 10% p.a.
Straight line basis Between 62p and 70p Between 4% p.a. and 10% p.a.
1 Headline diluted EPS is calculated as defined in the financial statements – see the Chief Financial Officer’s statement on page 33. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64
For the CEO’s award, the two measures operate concurrently, as illustrated in the vesting schedule below:
EPS 
element
vesting
X
100%
30%
0%
ITE’s three-year cumulative headline diluted EPS in pence
% EPS element
(all participants)
Threshold Stretch
TSR
multiplier
1.5
1.0
ITE’s three-year TSR rank vs. FTSE 250
TSR multiplier
(for CEO only)
Median UQ
2015 LTIP vesting schedule
The TSR vesting condition is ITE’s three-year TSR rank vs. a comparator group which for January 2015 PSP awards is the FTSE 250. 
TSR performance in the upper quartile of ranked companies will result in a multiple of 1.5 being applied to the EPS element of 
the CEO’s award. TSR performance below median rank will result in a multiple of one being applied to the EPS element of the 
CEO’s award, with the multiple being calculated on a straight line basis for TSR performance between median rank and upper 
quartile performance.
In addition, vested awards will be subject to clawback for the later of one year following date of vest or completion of the next 
audit of the Group’s accounts in the event of a fraud or material misstatement of results being identified in relation to the years 
in which the PSP is earned.
Details of awards granted on 13 January 2015 are set out below:
Executive Director Basis of award
1
Face value
2
Shares 
over which 
awards 
granted
3
Threshold 
vesting  
(% of award) Performance period Performance measure
Russell Taylor 150% of base salary £668,573 459,500 20% 
1 October 2014 to 
30 September 2017, 
inclusive 
Cumulative headline 
diluted EPS and 
for CEO a relative 
TSR performance 
condition Neil Jones 100% of base salary £247,350 170,000 30%
1 After consideration of the TSR performance condition for the CEO.
2 Calculated using the share price on the day immediately preceding the date of grant of 145.50p
3 Awards granted as nominal cost options with an exercise price of 1p per share.
2016 PSP framework
PSP awards are anticipated to be granted in January 2016 in line with the Remuneration Policy. Awards will be assessed against 
cumulative headline diluted EPS for Executive Directors, and against an additional relative TSR performance condition for the 
CEO. Both headline diluted EPS and TSR performance conditions will be measured over the three financial years ending on 
30 September 2018.
The Committee has set a cumulative headline diluted EPS performance zone (2016-2018) of 41.5p (for vesting at 20% of maximum 
for the CEO, and 30% for other participants) and 46.5p (for full vesting) for the three financial years ending on 30 September 2018. 
Vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis in between. The performance zone is equivalent to a compound increase of 4% 
p.a. to 10% p.a. from the 2015 base year, adjusted to remove the biennial effect and non-recurring foreign exchange gain to better 
reflect underlying performance. This takes into account reduced growth forecasts in the Company’s core markets. The Committee 
considers the resulting performance targets to be very stretching over the next three-year performance period and will ensure 
performance is measured on a consistent basis.
Directors’ remuneration report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
For the CEO’s award, the two measures operate concurrently so that relative TSR without EPS growth is not rewarded. Awards 
will be up to 150% of salary for the CEO if both the three-year cumulative headline diluted EPS and relative TSR performance 
conditions are met in full, and up to 100% of salary to Executive Directors for full achievement of the three-year cumulative 
headline diluted EPS performance condition. The TSR vesting condition is based on ITE’s three-year TSR rank vs. the FTSE 250 
which is the same as for 2015 PSP awards, and we believe consistency of approach is generally desirable. TSR performance in 
the upper quartile of ranked companies will result in a multiple of 1.5 being applied to the EPS element of the CEO’s award. 
TSR performance below median rank will result in a multiple of 1 being applied to the EPS element of the CEO’s award, with the 
multiple being calculated on a straight line basis for TSR performance between median rank and upper quartile performance.
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees
During the year the Committee reviewed the Chairman’s fee in light of the time commitment and fees payable at comparator 
companies and increased this from £157,500 to £160,000 p.a., an increase of 1.6%, effective from 1 October 2015.
With effect from 1 October 2015, the Non-executive Directors receive a base fee of £45,500 (2014: £45,000), with an additional 
fee for the Senior Independent Director of £5,000 (2014: £3,500) and for the Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairs of 
£6,100 (2014: £6,000). The Non-executive Directors’ fees for the year commencing 1 October 2015 are therefore as follows:
Name Reason for fees
Total annual 
fees (£)
Marco Sodi Company Chairman 160,000
Neil England Non-executive Director
Chair of the Remuneration Committee until 31 October 2015 47,025
Stephen Puckett Non-executive Director
Chair of the Audit Committee 51,600
Linda Jensen Non-executive Director
Senior Independent Director
Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 November 2015 56,092
Sharon Baylay Non-executive Director 45,500
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below shows ITE’s distributions to shareholders and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 
30 September 2014 and 30 September 2015, and the percentage change.
£m
35.0
30.0
25.0
20.0
40.0
15.0
10.0
5.0
2014
2015
0
Total employee pay Dividend
-26.7% +3.2% ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66
Performance graph
The chart below compares the value of £100 invested in ITE Group plc shares, including reinvested dividends, on 30 September 
2008 compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index, over the last seven financial years. The FTSE 250 Index has 
been chosen as it is the PSP TSR comparator group. The table below shows the single figure for the CEO over the same period.
100
150
200
250
300
30-Sep-15 30-Sep-14 30-Sep-13 30-Sep-12 30-Sep-11 30-Sep-10 30-Sep-09 30-Sep-08
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2015, of £100 invested in ITE Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends. 
Value of £100 invested on 30 September 2008 (£)
ITE Group plc FTSE 250 Index
Financial year ended 30 September 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
CEO single figure of remuneration (£000) 614 1,347 1,348 1,558 1,951 1,050 567
Annual bonus awarded % of maximum opportunity 58% 100% 94% 80% 94% 68% 16%
£ amount (£000) 212 380 375 332 402 298 72
PSP vesting % of maximum opportunity n/a 100% 100% 100% 100% 70% 0%
£ amount (£000) n/a 554 540 774 1,080 277 0
Change in CEO remuneration and for employees as a whole over FY2015
The graph below shows the change in CEO annual cash, defined as salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, compared to the 
average employees for 2014 to 2015.
CEO remuneration £000
Average employee 
remuneration £000
800
700
600
500
900
400
300
200
100
2014
2015
0
35.0
30.0
25.0
40.0
20.0
15.0
10.0
5.0
0
CEO remuneration Average employee 
remuneration
-29.4% -22.3%
Directors’ remuneration report continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
CEO Average 
for other 
employees 
% change
1
CEO annual cash
2015
£000
2014
£000
%
change
Salary 449 440 2% –17%
2
Taxable benefits 1 1 0% –43%
Annual variable 72 298 –76% –71%
Total 522 739 –29% –22%
1 The pay inflationary rates for other employees reflects the Group’s geographic mix in countries with high pay inflation.
2 The movement is largely a result of foreign exchange movement. At constant exchange rates the decrease in salaries is 4%.
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office
During the financial year ended 30 September 2015 no payments were made to past Directors or for loss of office.
Neil Jones will cease being an Executive Director of the Company on 31 January 2016, having resigned his position. He is not 
eligible for an annual bonus for any part of financial year 2016, and all of his current long-term incentives will lapse on his 
departure. There are no other payments to be made in respect of his resignation. This treatment is in line with policy.
Dilution limits
The Group has at all times complied with the dilution limits set out in the rules of its share plans (principally a limit of 10% in ten 
years). The Group will also operate within a dilution limit of 5% in any rolling ten-year period for discretionary schemes. In the 
ten-year period to 30 September 2015, awards made under the Group’s share schemes represented 0.6% (2014: 1.6%) of the 
Group’s issued ordinary share capital. Shares to satisfy awards granted under the Performance Share Plan which are normally 
purchased in the market do not count towards the dilution limits.
Directors’ shareholding guidelines and share scheme interests
During the year the Executive Directors were required to retain shares of a value equal to 25% of the gain made after tax, on the 
vesting of awards under the Plans, until they have built up their minimum shareholding of at least 100% of annual base salary 
(150% for the CEO). All of the Executive Directors currently exceed the shareholding guidelines.
The table below shows the Directors’ interests in shares owned outright and/or vested, and the extent to which ITE’s shareholding 
guidelines are achieved. There have been no other changes in the holdings of the current Directors and any connected persons 
between 30 September 2015 and 30 November 2015, being the last practicable date before publication of the Remuneration Report.
Number of 
unvested shares 
subject to 
performance
1
Number of  
shares held 
as at  
30 September 
2015
Number of  
shares held at  
30 September 
2014
Shareholding 
guideline (as % of 
salary/fees) Guideline met
2
Russell Taylor 1,220,550 1,500,000 2,000,000 150% Yes
Neil Jones 386,450 190,868 168,368 100% Yes
Marco Sodi n/a 200,000 100,000 n/a n/a
Sharon Baylay n/a 10,300 5,000 n/a n/a
Neil England n/a 50,000 50,000 n/a n/a
Linda Jensen n/a 5,000 5,000 n/a n/a
Stephen Puckett n/a 10,000 10,000 n/a n/a
1 Performance share plan awards are granted as nominal-cost options.
2 Current shareholding includes net shares owned outright and/or vested. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ interests in Performance Share Plans
Details of outstanding PSP awards are as follows (and targets are outlined on page 57):
Director 
Scheme
1 Oct  
2014
Granted 
during  
the year
Option 
price  
(£)
Exercised 
during  
the year
Lapsed 
during  
the year
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date  
(£)
30 Sep  
2015
Date of 
grant
Share price 
on date  
of grant  
(£)
Exercisable 
from
Exercisable 
to
Gain on 
exercise  
£000
Neil Jones
2004 Employees’ 
Performance Share Plan
1
114,000 – 0.01 79,800 34,200 1.8775 150
108,450 – 0.01 – – – 108,450 10/01/13 2.24 10/01/16 09/01/23
2014 Employees’ 
Performance Share Plan
108,000 – 0.01 – – – 108,000 13/03/14 2.30 13/03/17 11/03/24
– 170,000 0.01 – – – 170,000 13/01/15 1.455 12/01/18 11/01/25
Total 330,450 170,000 – 79,800 34,200 – 386,450
Russell Taylor
2004 Employees’ 
Performance Share Plan
1
154,000 – 0.01 – – – 154,000 11/01/11 2.315 11/01/14 10/01/21
194,000 – 0.01 – 58,200 – 135,800 10/01/12 2.065 10/01/15 09/01/22
185,250 – 0.01 – – – 185,250 10/01/13 2.24 10/01/16 09/01/23
2014 Employees’ 
Performance Share Plan
286,000 – 0.01 – – – 286,000 13/03/14 2.30 13/03/17 12/03/24
– 459,500 0.01 – – – 459,500 13/01/15 1.455 12/01/18 11/01/25
Total 819,250 459,500 – – 58,200 – 1,220,550
1 Headline diluted earnings per share is calculated as defined in the financial statements – see the Chief Financial Officer’s statement on page 33.
Performance conditions attached to outstanding awards under the PSP
For the 2004 Employees’ and Key Contractors’ Performance Share Plans, the performance conditions to be met for outstanding 
awards are as follows:
Date of grant of awards
Performance period  
for the three financial 
years ending
Performance  
measure
Performance  
targets
Percentage of  
awards that vest
Market price on 
date of grant
10 January 2013 30 September 2015 Three-year 
cumulative headline 
diluted EPS
1
Below 57p
57p
Between 57p and 64p
Nil
30%
Between 30% and 100% 
calculated on a straight 
line basis
227.0p
1 Headline diluted EPS is calculated as defined in the financial statements – see the Chief Financial Officer’s statement on page 33. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
For the 2014 Employees’ and Key Contractors’ Performance Share Plans, the performance conditions to be met for outstanding 
awards are as follows:
Date of grant of awards
Performance period  
for the three financial 
years ending
Performance  
measure
Performance  
targets
Percentage of  
awards that vest
Market price on 
date of grant
13 March 2014 30 September 2016 Three-year 
cumulative headline 
diluted EPS
1
 for 
Executive Directors.
Below 63p
63p
Between 63p and 69p
Nil
30% for Executive 
Directors and  
20% for CEO
Between 30% 
(20% for CEO) and 
100% calculated on a 
straight line basis
230p
Additional relative 
TSR performance 
condition for the CEO, 
such that TSR without 
EPS growth is not 
rewarded.
TSR vesting condition 
is ITE’s three-year TSR 
rank vs. FTSE 250. TSR 
performance in the 
upper quartile of ranked 
companies’ results in 
a multiple of 1.5, TSR 
performance below 
median rank results 
in a multiple of 1, with 
multiple calculated on a 
straight line basis for TSR 
performance between 
median and upper 
quartile performance.
13 January 2015 30 September 2017 Three-year 
cumulative headline 
diluted EPS
1
 for 
Executive Directors.
Below 62p
62p
Between 62p and 70p
Nil
30% for Executive 
Directors and  
20% for CEO
Between 30%  
(20% for CEO) and  
100% calculated on a 
straight line basis
Additional relative 
TSR performance 
condition for the CEO, 
such that TSR without 
EPS growth is not 
rewarded.
TSR vesting condition 
is ITE’s three-year TSR 
rank vs. FTSE 250. TSR 
performance in the 
upper quartile of ranked 
companies’ results in 
a multiple of 1.5, TSR 
performance below 
median rank results 
in a multiple of 1, with 
multiple calculated on a 
straight line basis for TSR 
performance between 
median and upper 
quartile performance.
1 Headline diluted EPS is calculated as defined in the financial statements – see the Chief Financial Officer’s statement on page 33. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70
Opinion on financial 
statements of ITE Group plc
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the 
related notes 1 to 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company Balance Sheet 
and notes 1 to 10 of the Company Financial Statements. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Separate opinion in relation to 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its 
legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the 
Directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would 
threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the longer-term viability of the 
Group contained within the Chief Financial Officer’s Report. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the Directors’ confirmation on page 35 that they have carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on pages 49-51 that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
 – the Directors’ statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to 
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements;
 – the Director’s explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed the prospects of 
the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we 
did not identify any such material uncertainties. However, because not all future events 
or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of ITE Group plc ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have 
not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the 
greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Acquisition accounting
As set out in note 12, the Group has made a number of 
acquisitions in the period, with total cash paid in the year of 
£48.8 million, including Eurasia Rail, Breakbulk and Africa Oil 
Week. Some of the acquisition agreements are in new 
territories for the Group. 
The accounting for these acquisitions can be complex and 
involves judgement, including the appropriate classification 
(associate, joint-venture, or subsidiary) and in relation to the 
valuation of acquired intangible assets. Given the complexity, 
there is a risk of inappropriate accounting and therefore 
misleading presentation in the financial statements.
We tested the design and implementation of controls over key 
outputs of the Group’s acquisition accounting, including controls 
over the consideration of accounting treatments for new or 
complex areas and the oversight exercised by Group finance 
over the alignment of accounting policies.
We reviewed the sale and purchase agreements and discussed 
the substance of the arrangements with management. We 
audited the acquisition accounting noting, in particular the 
requirements of IFRS 3 (‘Business Combinations’), IFRS10 
(‘Consolidated Financial Statements’) and IFRS11 (‘Joint 
Arrangements’) in assessing the appropriate classification 
and presentation. 
Our audit procedures also included the following:
 – testing the validity and completeness of consideration by 
reference to supporting evidence; 
 – assessing the process that management has undertaken to 
determine the fair value of the acquired intangible assets 
including understanding the scope of work performed; and
 – evaluating management’s assumptions and methodology 
supporting the fair value of acquired intangible assets 
(including customer relationships and trademarks and 
licences) for each significant acquisition in the year, by 
reference to, amongst other things, historical trends, 
customer attrition rates and assumptions used in similar 
historical acquisitions. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets and 
interests in associates and joint ventures
As set out in notes 11, 13 and 16, the Group carries 
£72.5 million (2014: £67.0 million) of goodwill, £65.3 million 
(2014: £35.4 million) of other intangible assets and £56.8 million 
(2014: £52.4 million) interests in associates and joint ventures 
on the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2015. As the 
Group continues to be acquisitive and enter new territories, it is 
a continued area of focus for management and ourselves. 
Management prepare a detailed assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets by 
cash-generating unit (CGU, country basis) and interests in 
associates and joint ventures using a number of judgemental 
assumptions (as described in note 11 to the financial 
statements) including 2016 Board-approved forecasts, 
discount rates and long-term growth rates. There is a risk that 
the application of inappropriate assumptions supports assets 
that should otherwise be impaired.
We reviewed the design and implementation of controls over 
goodwill, intangible assets and interests in associates and joint 
ventures recognition and impairment.
We considered whether management’s impairment review 
methodology is compliant with IAS 36 (‘Impairment of Assets’).
We challenged management’s assumptions used in the 
impairment assessment for goodwill, other intangible assets and 
interests in associates and joint ventures. Our audit work on the 
assumptions used in the impairment model focused on:
 – using valuation experts to determine the appropriateness of 
the discount rates and benchmark the discount rate applied 
against a broad comparator group;
 – agreeing the underlying cash flow projections for each CGU 
to Board-approved forecasts and verifying trends to our 
other audit work to understand any drivers of potential 
impairment;
 – comparing short-term cash flow projections against recent 
performance and historical forecasting accuracy; 
 – assessing the long-term growth rates used against 
independent market data; and 
 – calculating a range of reasonably possible sensitivities and 
comparing these to those calculated by management to 
ensure no further indicator of impairment is identified.
We also determined that management have appropriately 
disclosed those CGUs where a reasonably possible change in 
assumptions might lead to an impairment.
Foreign exchange on transactions and consolidation
The Group operates in a number of emerging markets and this 
year has seen the devaluation of a number of these emerging 
market currencies, notably the Ruble of R99.9:£1 as at 30 
September 2015 from R63.8:£1 as at 30 September 2014, and 
this has had a significant impact on the results in the year.
The potential impact of this risk has increased in the year with 
a £5.9 million gain recognised in the income statement and a 
£26.4 million currency translation loss on net investment in 
subsidiary undertakings included within the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Given the complexity of foreign exchange movements in 
the year and the timing of retranslation there is a risk the 
amounts recognised in the income statement and the impact 
of translating the Group’s overseas operations on 
consolidation may be misstated. 
Our audit work on foreign exchange arising on transactions and 
consolidation included:
 – testing the design and implementation of management’s 
controls over foreign currency and incorporated foreign 
exchange into our operating effectiveness testing of the 
revenue cycle plan for year-end;
 – reviewing the front half of the Annual Report to consider 
the disclosure of currency movements and ‘like-for-like’ 
numbers, including understanding the mechanics behind 
the calculations on revenue and gross profit;
 – testing FX rates used by management by comparing against 
external sources;
 – auditing foreign currency gains and losses recorded in the 
income statement by obtaining a breakdown at the 
transaction level, testing a sample to supporting evidence, 
recalculating the movement recognised and understanding 
the nature of the movement; and
 – auditing the movements in the foreign currency translation 
reserve by recalculating the foreign exchange movements 
in the year to ensure the appropriate amount has been 
recognised.
 
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of ITE Group plc ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Last year our report included two risks which are not included in our report this year: 
recoverability of venue advances and revenue recognition. Venue advances are typically 
offset through utilisation at the venue and there is a good history of utilisation and hence 
recoverability. For revenue, whilst it is a presumed significant risk and continues to be an 
area where we focus as part of the audit, it is not complex in the context of the business or 
a balance requiring significant management judgement.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues 
considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 47.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would 
be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work 
and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.6 million (2014: £2.0 million), which is 
5.1% (2014: 4.8%) of profit before tax, which has been used as our basis for our assessment 
of materiality. The materiality level is also 3.4% (2014: 3.5%) of headline pre-tax profit and 
1.6% (2014: 2.0%) of equity. The decrease in materiality is directly attributable to the fall in 
profit before tax in the year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit 
differences in excess of £32,000 (2014: £40,000), as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation 
of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope 
of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its 
environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the Group level. Based on this assessment our Group audit scope focused 
on the UK, Russia and Turkey. In addition, we performed specific audit procedures in 
Kazakhstan (2014: Azerbaijan). These entities represent the principal business units and 
account for 83% (2014: 83%) of the Group’s revenue and 84% (2014: 85%) of the operating 
profit. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at each location 
was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower 
than Group materiality and ranged from £0.8 million to £0.9 million (2014: £1.0 million to 
£1.4 million).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical 
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not 
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that have been 
designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group team visits 
each of the principal locations (2015: Russia and Turkey; 2014 Russia and Turkey) where the 
Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of 
them at least once a year. In addition, for each component in scope, we reviewed and 
challenged the key issues and audit findings, attended the component close meetings and 
reviewed formal reporting and selected work papers from the component auditors. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are 
required to report by 
exception
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other 
information in the Annual 
Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies 
between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee 
which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of 
Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 
1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include 
our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of ITE Group plc ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Mark Lee-Amies FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
30 November 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2, 3 135,794 174,827
Cost of sales (73,617) (94,067)
Gross profit 62,177 80,760
Other operating income 372 369
 Administrative expenses (26,932) (27,982)
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 13 (13,134) (11,815)
 Impairment loss – (6,212)
 Foreign exchange gain on operating activities 5,932 3,986
Total administrative expenses (34,134) (42,023)
Income from associates and joint ventures 16 3,683 2,725
Operating profit 32,098 41,831
Investment revenue 4 2,883 1,026
Finance costs 5 (3,435) (1,379)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6 31,546 41,478
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 (4,976) (7,399)
Profit for the period 26,570 34,079
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the parent 26,179 33,903
 Non-controlling interests 24 391 176
26,570 34,079
Earnings per share (p)
Basic 10 10.5 13.8 
Diluted 10 10.4 13.8 
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit for the period attributable to shareholders 26,570 34,079
Cash flow hedges:
 Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges 79 3,708
 Fair value of cash flow hedges released to the income statement 640 741
Currency translation movement on net investment in subsidiary undertakings (26,434) (21,149)
855 17,379
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income 8 (149) (912)
Total comprehensive income for the period 706 16,467
Attributable to:
 Owners of the Company 315 16,291
 Non-controlling interests 24 391 176
706 16,467
All items recognised in comprehensive income may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement.
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78
Share 
capital
£000
Share 
premium 
account
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£000
ESOT 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000
Put option 
reserve
£000
Translation 
reserve
£000
Hedge 
reserve
£000
Total
£000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£000
Total 
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 October 2014 2,497 2,947 2,746 457 (5,641) 133,126 (1,498) (33,269) 3,104 104,469 942 105,411
Net profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 26,179 –  –  – 26,179 391 26,570
Currency translation movement on net investment in subsidiary undertakings –  –  –  –  –  –  – (26,434) – (26,434) – (26,434)
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 79 79 – 79
Fair value of cash flow hedges released to the income statement –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 640 640 – 640
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (149) (149) – (149)
Total comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  –  – 26,179 – (26,434) 570 315 391 706
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  – (18,398) –  –  – (18,398) (317) (18,715)
Exercise of share options 1 –  –  – 816 (810) –  –  – 7 – 7
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  – 148 –  –  – 148 – 148
Issue of shares 72 11,928 –  –  –  –  –  –  – 12,000 – 12,000
Tax debited to equity –  –  –  –  – (214) –  –  – (214) – (214)
Acquisition of subsidiary –  –  –  –  –  – (15,345) –  – (15,345) 15,345 – 
Balance as at 30 September 2015 2,570 14,875 2,746 457 (4,825) 140,031 (16,843) (59,703) 3,674 82,982 16,361 99,343
Balance as at 1 October 2013 2,494 2,938 2,746 457 (3,530) 119,335 (7,108) (12,120) (433) 104,779 4,519 109,298
Net profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 33,903 –  –  – 33,903 176 34,079
Currency translation movement on net investment in subsidiary undertakings –  –  –  –  –  –  – (21,149) – (21,149) – (21,149)
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 3,708 3,708 – 3,708
Fair value of cash flow hedges released to the income statement –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 741 741 – 741
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  – – –  – (912) (912) – (912)
Total comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  –  – 33,903 – (21,149) 3,537 16,291 176 16,467
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  – (17,722) –  –  – (17,722) (668) (18,390)
Exercise of share options 3 9 –  – 1,640 (217) –  –  – 1,435 – 1,435
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  – 447 –  –  – 447 – 447
Purchase of shares for ESOT –  –  –  – (3,751) –  –  –  – (3,751) – (3,751)
Tax credited to equity –  –  –  –  – 60 –  –  – 60 – 60
Sale of minority interest –  –  –  –  – 94 (283) –  – (189) 34 (155)
Acquisition of subsidiary –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Exercise of put option on acquisition of non-controlling interest –  –  –  –  – (2,774) 5,893 –  – 3,119 (3,119) – 
Balance as at 30 September 2014 2,497 2,947 2,746 457 (5,641) 133,126 (1,498) (33,269) 3,104 104,469 942 105,411
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Share 
capital
£000
Share 
premium 
account
£000
Merger 
reserve
£000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£000
ESOT 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000
Put option 
reserve
£000
Translation 
reserve
£000
Hedge 
reserve
£000
Total
£000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£000
Total 
equity
£000
Balance as at 1 October 2014 2,497 2,947 2,746 457 (5,641) 133,126 (1,498) (33,269) 3,104 104,469 942 105,411
Net profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 26,179 –  –  – 26,179 391 26,570
Currency translation movement on net investment in subsidiary undertakings –  –  –  –  –  –  – (26,434) – (26,434) – (26,434)
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 79 79 – 79
Fair value of cash flow hedges released to the income statement –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 640 640 – 640
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (149) (149) – (149)
Total comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  –  – 26,179 – (26,434) 570 315 391 706
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  – (18,398) –  –  – (18,398) (317) (18,715)
Exercise of share options 1 –  –  – 816 (810) –  –  – 7 – 7
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  – 148 –  –  – 148 – 148
Issue of shares 72 11,928 –  –  –  –  –  –  – 12,000 – 12,000
Tax debited to equity –  –  –  –  – (214) –  –  – (214) – (214)
Acquisition of subsidiary –  –  –  –  –  – (15,345) –  – (15,345) 15,345 – 
Balance as at 30 September 2015 2,570 14,875 2,746 457 (4,825) 140,031 (16,843) (59,703) 3,674 82,982 16,361 99,343
Balance as at 1 October 2013 2,494 2,938 2,746 457 (3,530) 119,335 (7,108) (12,120) (433) 104,779 4,519 109,298
Net profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 33,903 –  –  – 33,903 176 34,079
Currency translation movement on net investment in subsidiary undertakings –  –  –  –  –  –  – (21,149) – (21,149) – (21,149)
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 3,708 3,708 – 3,708
Fair value of cash flow hedges released to the income statement –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 741 741 – 741
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income  –  –  –  –  – – –  – (912) (912) – (912)
Total comprehensive income for the period –  –  –  –  – 33,903 – (21,149) 3,537 16,291 176 16,467
Dividends paid  –  –  –  –  – (17,722) –  –  – (17,722) (668) (18,390)
Exercise of share options 3 9 –  – 1,640 (217) –  –  – 1,435 – 1,435
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  – 447 –  –  – 447 – 447
Purchase of shares for ESOT –  –  –  – (3,751) –  –  –  – (3,751) – (3,751)
Tax credited to equity –  –  –  –  – 60 –  –  – 60 – 60
Sale of minority interest –  –  –  –  – 94 (283) –  – (189) 34 (155)
Acquisition of subsidiary –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Exercise of put option on acquisition of non-controlling interest –  –  –  –  – (2,774) 5,893 –  – 3,119 (3,119) – 
Balance as at 30 September 2014 2,497 2,947 2,746 457 (5,641) 133,126 (1,498) (33,269) 3,104 104,469 942 105,411
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 72,490 67,016
Other intangible assets 13 65,313 35,405
Property, plant and equipment 14 1,708 2,198
Interests in associates & joint ventures 16 56,782 52,367
Venue advances and prepayments 17 2,131 6,311
Derivative financial instruments 21 1,528 1,315
Deferred tax asset 22 1,652 1,931
201,604 166,543
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 41,225 44,666
Tax prepayment 17 945 2,211
Derivative financial instruments 21 1,951 1,985
Cash and cash equivalents 17 17,269 28,145
61,390 77,007
Total assets 262,994 243,550
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (15,944) (21,615)
Deferred income 19 (49,831) (60,776)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (9,054) (1,515)
Provisions 20 (137) (181)
(74,966) (84,087)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loan 18 (69,616) (42,900)
Provisions 20 (190) (220)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (10,045) (10,932)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (8,834) –
(88,685) (54,052)
Total liabilities (163,651) (138,139)
Net assets 99,343 105,411
Equity
Share capital 23 2,570 2,497
Share premium account 14,875 2,947
Merger reserve 2,746 2,746
Capital redemption reserve 457 457
ESOT reserve (4,825) (5,641)
Retained earnings 140,031 133,126
Translation reserve (59,703) (33,269)
Hedge reserve 3,674 3,104
Put option reserve (16,843) (1,498)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 82,982 104,469
Non-controlling interests 24 16,361 942
Total equity 99,343 105,411
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of ITE Group plc, registered company number 01927339, were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 30 November 2015. They were signed on their behalf by:
Russell Taylor 
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2015
Neil Jones
Chief Financial Officer
30 November 2015
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Operating activities
Operating profit from continuing operations 3 32,098 41,831
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation and amortisation 6 14,574 13,289
Impairment of goodwill 6 – 6,212
Share-based payments 26 148 447
Share of profit from associates & joint ventures 16 (3,683) (2,725)
Decrease in provisions 20 (74) (424)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 6 (6) 52
Foreign exchange gain on operating activities 6 (5,932) (3,986)
Profit on disposal of investments – (716)
Recognition of negative goodwill from bargain purchase – (463)
Fair value of cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement 1,073 725
Dividends received from associates & joint ventures 16 2,632 3,734
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 40,830 57,976
Decrease in receivables 10,744 14,683
Venue advances and loans (3,574) (11,613)
Utilisation & repayment of venue loans 4,411 4,689
Decrease in deferred income (12,908) (16,030)
Decrease in payables (2,541) (1,244)
Cash generated from operations 36,962 48,461
Tax paid (6,635) (8,691)
Net cash from operating activities 30,327 39,770
Investing activities
Interest received 4 258 411
Investment in associates & joint ventures 16, 19 (7,046) (35,118)
Proceeds received from demerger – 2,482
Acquisition of businesses – cash paid 12, 19 (48,787) (13,701)
Cash acquired through acquisitions 12 280 –
Purchase of plant, property & equipment and computer software 13, 14 (1,740) (2,886)
Disposal of plant, property & equipment and computer software 13, 14 25 222
Disposal of minority stake – 128
Cash paid to acquire non-controlling interests – (4,456)
Net cash utilised on investing activities (57,010) (52,918)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid (18,681) (17,407)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 24 (317) (668)
Interest paid 5 (2,506) (1,263)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital & exercise of share options 23 12,007 1,435
Acquisition of shares for ESOT – (3,751)
Drawdown of borrowings 26,716 22,323
Net cash inflow from financing activities 17,219 669
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (9,464) (12,479)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 28,145 44,040
Effect of foreign exchange rates (1,412) (3,416)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 17,269 28,145
Cash generated from the business
Cash generated from operations 36,962 48,461
Interest received 258 411
Interest paid (2,506) (1,263)
34,714 47,609
Free cash flow from the business
Cash generated from the business 34,714 47,609
Tax paid (6,635) (8,691)
28,079 38,918
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82
At 
1 October 
2014
£000
Cash flow
£000
Foreign 
exchange
£000
At 
30 September 
2015
£000
Cash 28,145 (9,464) (1,412) 17,269
Debt due within one year – – – –
Debt due after one year (42,900) (26,716) – (69,616)
Net debt (14,755) (36,180) (1,412) (52,347)
The notes on pages 83 to 119 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Net debt reconciliation ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1 General information
ITE Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of the registered office is given on page 128. The 
nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 37 and in note 3. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting 
policies set out below.
Impact of new accounting standards
New, revised or changes to existing standards which have been adopted by the Group in the year ended 
30 September 2015
The following new standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the reported 
results or the financial position:
New, amended and revised standards Effective date
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans 1 February 2015
Annual improvements 2010-2012 Cycle:
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 1 February 2015
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 February 2015
Amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 February 2015
Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets 1 February 2015
Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures 1 February 2015
Annual improvements 2011-2013 Cycle:
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 January 2015
Amendments to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2015
Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property 1 January 2015
The adoption of these new standards and interpretations has not changed any previously reported figures. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
New, amended and revised standards Effective date
Annual improvements 2012-2014 cycle:
Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure initiative 1 January 2016
Amendments IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Clarification of acceptable 
methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements: Equity method in separate financial statements 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint arrangement: Accounting for acquisitions of interests 1 January 2016 
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact 
on the financial statements of the Group.
2 Basis of accounting
ITE Group plc (‘the Company’) is a UK listed company and, together with its subsidiary operations, is hereafter referred to as 
‘the Group’. The Company is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the 
EU IAS Regulation. In addition, the Group has complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and income and expenses. These estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on past experience and other factors considered applicable at the time and are used to 
make judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that cannot be readily determined from other sources. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates.
Notes to the consolidated accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84
2 Basis of accounting continued
These estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes to estimates and assumptions are 
reflected in the financial statements in the period in which they are made. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future as disclosed in the Chief Financial Officer’s statement on page 35. 
The statements are presented in pounds Sterling and have been prepared under IFRS using the historical cost convention, except 
for the revaluation of financial instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of ITE Group plc and the subsidiary undertakings controlled by the Company drawn 
up to 30 September each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets is recognised as goodwill. The interest of non-controlling 
shareholders is stated at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of assets and liabilities recognised. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line 
with those used by the Group. 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries is identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Non-controlling interest consists of the amount of those interests as at the date of the original business combination and the 
non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Losses applicable to the non-controlling 
interest in excess of their interest in the subsidiaries’ equity are allocated against non-controlling interest even if this results in 
a deficit balance.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Any costs attributable to the business combination are expensed 
directly to the income statement. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions 
for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal 
groups) that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations), which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
recognised. If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of 
acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent 
consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. Changes in the fair value of 
contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured as the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net 
fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for 
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
2 Basis of accounting continued
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying value of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other assets of the unit, pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of 
each asset in the unit. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated 
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill on acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. 
Intangible assets
Computer software is initially measured at purchase cost. Customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases 
are measured at fair value. Computer software, customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases have a 
definite useful life and are carried at cost or fair value less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is calculated using the straight 
line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life. The estimated useful lives are typically between three and ten 
years for customer relationships, for some trademarks up to twenty years and for visitor databases between five and eight years. 
Computer software is amortised over four years.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication 
that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment is recognised immediately 
as an expense.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a 
revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the 
following bases:
Leasehold improvements
Plant and equipment
 – term of lease
 – 4 to 10 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where 
shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and 
the carrying value amount of the asset and is recognised in income. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86
2 Basis of accounting continued
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence. Significant influence is the power 
to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control over those policies.
A joint venture is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise joint control. Joint control exists when decisions about 
the activities of the entity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting. Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less any impairment in the value of individual 
investments. Losses of an associate or joint venture in excess of the Group’s interest in that entity (which includes any long-term 
interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate or joint venture) are recognised only to the 
extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate or joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent 
of the Group’s interest in the relevant associate or joint venture. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred, in which case an appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Venue advances
Venue advances arise where the Group has advanced funds to venue owners that can be repaid by either off-setting against 
future venue hire or by cash repayment. Where the advance can be settled in cash, the loan balance is measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method where the impact of discounting is material. Appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Advances that are prepayments of future venue hire and do not permit the repayment of the principal in cash are recognised at 
cost as prepayments in venue advances and prepayments.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions 
are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Financial instruments
Classes of financial instruments
The Group aggregates its financial instruments into classes based on their nature and characteristics. The details of financial 
instruments by class are disclosed in note 21 to the accounts.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: investments, cash and cash equivalents, loans and 
receivables and derivative assets at fair value through profit or loss. The classification is determined by management upon initial 
recognition, and is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether its financial assets are to be impaired. Impairment losses are recognised 
in the Income Statement where there is objective evidence of impairment. Financial assets are derecognised (in full or partly) 
when the Group’s rights to cash flows from the respective assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has 
neither exposure to the risks inherent in those assets nor entitlement to rewards from them.
Investments
Investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and 
stated at fair value. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 21. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair 
value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception 
of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gain and losses on monetary 
assets which are recognised directly in the Income Statement. Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be 
impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to the 
Income Statement.
Dividends on available for sale equity instruments are recognised in the Income Statement when the Group’s right to receive the 
dividends is established. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
2 Basis of accounting continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and on-demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash 
equivalents are measured at initial recognition at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition cash and cash equivalents are 
stated at fair value with all realised gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. This category includes the following classes of financial assets: trade and other receivables and venue advances.
Loans and receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the Income Statement when there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired. The estimates are based on specific credit circumstances and the Group’s historical bad 
receivables experience. No interest is charged on the loans and receivables, due to either their short-term nature or specific 
arrangements in place, and hence the effective interest rate method is not applied. 
Derivative assets
A derivative is a financial instrument that changes its value in response to changes in underlying variables, requires no or little 
net initial investment and is settled at a future date. Derivative assets are classified as at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL). 
Derivative assets are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each 
balance sheet date with the resulting gains and losses recognised in the Income Statement. These derivatives are acquired in full 
compliance with the Group’s treasury policies.
Financial liabilities 
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: written put options, bank borrowings, trade and other 
payables held at amortised cost and derivative liabilities through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Written put options
Any contract with a single or multiple settlement option that contains an obligation for the Group to purchase equity in a subsidiary 
for cash gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the repurchase price. An amount equal to the liability is recorded in 
equity on initial recognition of a written put option. The liability is subsequently remeasured through the Income Statement.
Where considered significant, the Group’s written put options are discounted to their appropriate value. The unwinding of the 
discount is charged through the Income Statement over the period to exercise.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received. Finance charges are accounted for on an 
accruals basis in the Income Statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise. Loan and overdraft interest and associated costs that are considered to be financing in 
nature are presented as financing activities in the cash flow statement.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Trade payables 
are derecognised in full when the Group is discharged from its obligation, it expires, is cancelled or replaced by a new liability with 
substantially modified terms. Trade and other payables are short term and there is no interest charged in connection with these, 
hence the effective interest method is not applied.
Derivative liabilities
A derivative is a financial instrument that changes its value in response to changes in an underlying variable, requires no or little 
net initial investment and is settled at a future date. Derivative liabilities are classified as FVTPL. Derivative liabilities are measured 
at initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date with the resulting 
gains and losses recognised in the income statement. These derivatives are acquired in full compliance with the Group’s 
treasury policies.
Hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group uses derivative 
financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures.  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88
2 Basis of accounting continued
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured 
to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement immediately unless 
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Income 
Statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates its derivative financial instruments as cash 
flow hedges. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument 
is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as 
current assets or current liabilities.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with the risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. At the 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging 
relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values of cash flows of the hedged item.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are 
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement as investment revenue or 
finance costs respectively. Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item 
is recognised in the Income Statement, in the same line of the Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement.
The Group’s use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s financial policies. Further details on these policies can be 
found in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 37. 
Fair values
The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction 
between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The Group determines the fair value of its financial instruments using market prices for quoted instruments and widely accepted 
valuation techniques for other instruments.
Valuation techniques include discounted cash flows, standard valuation models based on market parameters, dealer quotes for 
similar instruments and use of comparable arm’s length transactions.
Revenue
Revenue represents the fair value of amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the ordinary course of business net 
of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is recognised on completion of an event. Billings and cash received in advance and directly attributable costs relating to 
future events are deferred. The amounts so deferred are included in the balance sheet as deferred event income and prepaid 
event costs respectively until the show has completed. If an event is anticipated to make a loss then the prepaid event costs in 
excess of the deferred income held on the balance sheet as at the balance sheet date are written off in full.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Barter transactions
Where barter transactions occur between advertising and exhibition space and the revenue can be measured reliably, revenues 
and costs are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates and joint ventures and profit or loss on disposal of Group 
undertakings and before investment income and finance costs. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
2 Basis of accounting continued
Headline pre-tax profit
Headline pre-tax profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities before taxation, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, 
impairment of goodwill, profits or losses arising on disposal of Group undertakings, transaction costs on completed and pending 
acquisitions and disposals, tax on income from associates and joint ventures, gains or losses on the revaluation of contingent 
consideration, gains or losses on the revaluation of put option liabilities over non-controlling interests, and imputed interest 
charges on discounted put option liabilities – see note 6 for details.
Headline diluted earnings per share is calculated using profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, profits or losses arising on disposal of Group undertakings, transaction 
costs on completed and pending acquisitions and disposals, gains or losses on the revaluation of contingent consideration, gains 
or losses on the revaluation of put option liabilities over non-controlling interests, and imputed interest charges on discounted 
put option liabilities – see note 10 for details.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profit for the year using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that 
are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted 
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises 
from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that does not affect the tax profit or the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and 
interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or their contractual rate 
where applicable. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated at 
the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing at the date 
the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not 
retranslated. Gains and losses arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are 
included in income for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value 
are included in income for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of 
which gains or losses are recognised directly in equity. For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or 
loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Details of the Group’s accounting policies for forward contracts and options are included in the policy on derivative 
financial instruments.
On consolidation, the monthly results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange for each month, 
and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and 
transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expense in the period 
in which the operation is disposed of. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90
2 Basis of accounting continued
Under the exemption permitted from IAS 21 (the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates), cumulative translation differences 
for all foreign operations prior to 1 October 2004 have been treated as zero. Consequently, any gain or loss on disposal will 
exclude translation differences that arose prior to 1 October 2004.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate. 
Employee Share Ownership Trust
The financial statements include the assets and liabilities of the Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT). Shares in the Company 
held by the ESOT have been valued at cost and are held in equity. The costs of administration of the ESOT are written off to profit 
or loss as incurred.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, any net consideration received is included in equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders.
Pension and other retirement benefits
The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan in the United Kingdom. Contributions payable are charged to the income 
statement as they fall due as an operating expense.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied IFRS 2 (Share-based payments). IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. These are measured at fair value (excluding the 
effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-
settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using a Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, for the effects of 
non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations based on management’s best estimate.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not 
made on such a basis. Benefits received as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis 
over the lease term.
 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, the following judgements and assumptions have been made by 
management and have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements or have the most risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year:
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash-generating  
units to which goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated. There are a number of judgements to consider in this estimation 
including the forecast cash flows of the cash-generating unit, the growth rates applied, the expected life of the cash flows and the 
discount rates used. Forecast cash flows are based on Board-approved budgets and plans. Growth rates reflect management’s view 
of the long-term forecast rates of growth, using third party sources such as the International Monetary Fund where appropriate. 
The expected life of the cash flows is based on management’s average expectation of the period over which value will be derived 
from the cash-generating units. Discount rates are selected to reflect the risk adjusted cost of capital for the respective territory. 
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at 30 September 2015 is £72 million and £65 million respectively.
Acquired intangible assets
The valuation of acquired intangible assets requires management to estimate the net present value of the additional future 
cash flows arising from customer relationships, trademarks and licences and visitor databases to determine the value of those 
intangible assets. The key assumptions used in estimating the net present value of the additional future cash flows are the 
discount rate, royalty rate, attrition rate and the period over which the intangible assets affect future cash flows. 
Intangible asset useful economic lives
The life of an intangible asset is estimated by management based on the expected period over which cash flows generated from 
that asset will arise. The amortisation charge reflected in the financial statements is directly impacted by the estimation of useful 
lives by management.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
2 Basis of accounting continued
Taxation 
Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a tax structure which makes the 
degree of estimation and judgement more challenging. The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is 
often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes. Such issues can take several years to resolve. The Group takes a considered 
view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ 
significantly from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Group’s results and future cash flows.
3 Segmental information
IFRS 8 introduced the term Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The Senior Management Board is considered to be the CODM 
and consists of Mandy Hossami, Neil Jones (Chief Financial Officer), Suzanne King, Baris Onay, Nik Rudge, Alexander Shtalenkov, 
Russell Taylor (Chief Executive Officer), Mark Temple-Smith and Colette Tebbutt.
ITE’s reportable segments are strategic business units that are based in different geographic locations, predominantly 
in developing and emerging markets. Each business unit is managed separately and has a different marketing strategy as 
determined by the local management. The products and services offered by each business unit are identical across the Group.
The Group evaluates the performance of its segments on the basis of headline pre-tax profit and operating profit. See note 2 for 
more details.
The revenue and profit before taxation are attributable to the Group’s one principal activity, the organisation of trade exhibitions, 
conferences and related activities, and can be analysed by geographic segment as follows. No individual customer amounts to 
more than 10% of Group revenues.
Year ended 30 September 2015
Russia
£000
Central 
Asia 
£000
Eastern & 
Southern 
Europe
£000
Rest 
of the
 World
£000
Asia
£000
Total 
Group
£000
By geographical location of events/activities 
Revenue 72,138 27,201 17,859 14,719 3,877 135,794
Headline pre-tax profit (note 6) 37,260 8,606 6,758 (9,753) 4,288 47,159
Operating profit 33,621 8,090 1,347 (12,343) 1,383 32,098
By origin of sale
Revenue 44,933 14,272 21,013 44,165 11,411 135,794
Headline pre-tax profit 23,180 2,313 10,352 611 10,703 47,159
Operating profit 19,540 1,797 4,942 (1,979) 7,798 32,098
Operating profit 32,098
Investment revenue 2,883
Finance costs (3,435)
Profit before tax 31,546
Tax (4,976)
Profit after tax 26,570
Capital expenditure 93 155 99 1,337 56 1,740
Depreciation and amortisation 3,054 780 5,024 4,313 1,382 14,553
Balance sheet
Assets
1
44,539 13,127 41,747 91,157 69,827 260,397
Liabilities
1
19,037 5,049 10,086 110,803 7,094 152,069
Non-current assets
1
27,693 6,437 30,322 70,401 65,099 199,952
1  Segment assets and segment liabilities exclude current and deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The revenue in the year of £135.8 million includes £0.6 million (2014: £0.4 million) of barter sales.
Included within the headline pre-tax profit and operating profit of Rest of the World is £11.3 million and £8.9 million respectively 
of corporate costs.
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92
3 Segmental information continued
Year ended 30 September 2014
Russia
£000
Central  
Asia 
£000
Eastern & 
Southern 
Europe
£000
Rest  
of the 
World
2
£000
Asia
£000
Total 
Group
£000
By geographical location of events/activities 
Revenue 102,851 33,509 21,125 11,677 5,665 174,827
Headline pre-tax profit (note 6) 44,051 11,804 7,621 (7,038) 3,823 60,261
Operating profit 39,369 11,343 (4,365) (5,276) 760 41,831
By origin of sale 
Revenue 69,371 19,443 24,871 49,113 12,029 174,827
Headline pre-tax profit 30,015 5,670 10,982 3,976 9,618 60,261
Operating profit 25,334 5,208 (1,004) 5,738 6,555 41,831
Operating profit 41,831
Investment revenue 1,026
Finance costs (1,379)
Profit before tax 41,478
Tax (7,399)
Profit after tax 34,079
Capital expenditure 622 278 240 1,680 66 2,886
Depreciation and amortisation 4,986 689 5,263 1,193 1,158 13,289
Balance sheet
Assets
1
73,577 18,043 41,106 39,239 67,433 239,398
Liabilities
1
31,684 5,792 9,454 69,338 8,878 125,146
Non-current Assets
1
47,421 9,476 30,577 15,166 61,972 164,612
1 Segment assets and segment liabilities exclude current and deferred tax assets and liabilities.
2 The 2014 Rest of the World segment was previously disclosed as UK & Western Europe.
Included within the headline pre-tax profit and operating profit of Rest of the World is £11.6 million and £11.0 million respectively 
of corporate costs.
4 Investment revenue
2015
£000
2014
£000
Interest receivable from bank deposits 258 411
Gain on revaluation of equity options – 318
Gain on cash flow hedges 433 –
Gain on revaluation of contingent consideration 2,192 297
2,883 1,026
5 Finance costs
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Interest on bank loans 1,624 710
Bank charges 882 553
Loss on revaluation of put options 929 –
Loss on cash flow hedges – 16
Imputed interest charge on discounted put option liabilities – 100
3,435 1,379
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
6 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015
£000
2014
£000
Staff costs (note 7) 30,358 40,514
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 696 769
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 13) 13,878 12,520
Impairment of goodwill – 6,212
Profit on disposal of investments included within administrative expenses – (716)
Recognition of negative goodwill from bargain purchase – (463)
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (6) 52
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings (note 25) 2,352 2,589
(Gain)/loss on derivative financial instruments – cash flow hedges (notes 4 & 5) (433) 16
Loss/(gain) on derivative financial instruments – put options (notes 4 & 5) 929 (318)
Foreign exchange gain on operating activities (5,932) (3,986)
Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 188 192
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 124 124
– Other services pursuant to legislation (Interim review) 45 39
– Other services
1
– 20
Tax services – –
357 375
1 Other services in 2014 related to a review of Group Finance controls. 
 
Reconciliation of profit on ordinary activities before taxation to headline pre-tax profit
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 31,546 41,478
Operating items
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (note 13) 13,134 11,815
Impairment of goodwill – 6,212
Profit on disposal of investments included within administrative expenses – (716)
Recognition of negative goodwill from bargain purchase – (463)
Transaction costs on completed and pending acquisitions 2,534 1,582
Tax on income from associates and joint ventures 1,208 868
Financing items
Gain on revaluation of contingent consideration (notes 4 & 5) (2,192) (297)
Loss/(gain) on revaluation of put option liabilities over non-controlling interests (notes 4 & 5) 929 (318)
Imputed interest charges on put option liabilities (notes 4 & 5) – 100
Headline pre-tax profit 47,159 60,261 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94
7 Staff costs
2015
Number
2014
Number
The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) was:
Technical and sales 680 706
Administration 356 395
1,036 1,101
£000 £000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 25,422 34,116
Social security costs 4,059 4,638
Other staff benefits 598 1,111
Defined contribution pension contributions 131 202
Share-based payments 148 447
30,358 40,514
The defined contribution pension contributions relate to the UK scheme.
Details of audited Directors’ remuneration are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 69.
 
8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Analysis of tax charge for the year:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Group taxation on current year profit
UK corporation tax on profit for the year (184) (269)
Adjustment to UK tax in respect of previous years (18) 293
(202) 24
Overseas taxation – current year 7,362 9,366
Overseas taxation – previous years 213 (391)
7,575 8,975
Current tax 7,373 8,999
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences:
Current year (1,993) (1,106)
Prior year (404) (494)
4,976 7,399
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 31,546 41,478
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.5% (2014: 22%) 6,467 9,125
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 111 (141)
Impairment of goodwill – 1,177
Foreign exchange (90) 96
Deferred tax assets not recognised 688 363
Withholding tax and other irrecoverable taxes 678 996
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years (125) (592)
Deferred tax provision in respect of proposed dividends from overseas subsidiaries 90 298
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (2,088) (3,323)
Associate tax (755) (600)
4,976 7,399
2015
£000
2014
£000
Tax relating to components of comprehensive income:
Cash flow gains/(losses) – Current (134) (163)
Cash flow gains/(losses) – Deferred (15) (749)
(149) (912)
Tax relating to amounts credited/(charged) to equity: 
Share options – Current (43) 194
Share options – Deferred (171) (134)
(214) 60
(363) (852)
9 Dividends
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2014 of 4.9p (2013: 4.7p) per ordinary share 12,053 11,581
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 2.5p (2014: 2.5p) per ordinary share 6,345 6,141
18,398 17,722
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 4.9p (2014: 4.9p) per ordinary share 12,436 12,055
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. Under the terms of the trust deed dated 20 October 1998, the ITE Group Employees’ Share 
Trust, which holds 3,168,153 (2014: 3,703,588) ordinary shares representing 1.2% of the Company’s called up ordinary share 
capital, has agreed to waive all dividends due to it each year. 
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96
10 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic, diluted and headline diluted earnings per share is based on the following earnings and the numbers 
of shares: 
2015 
No.of 
shares 
(000)
2014 
No.of 
shares 
(000)
Weighted average number of shares:
For basic earnings per share 250,321 246,153
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 333 326
For diluted and headline diluted earnings per share 250,654 246,479
Basic and diluted earnings per share
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the financial year attributable to equity 
holders of the parent of £26.2 million (2014: £33.9 million). Basic and diluted earnings per share were 10.5p and 10.4p respectively 
(2014: 13.8p and 13.8p respectively).
Headline diluted earnings per share
Headline diluted earnings per share is intended to provide a consistent measure of Group earnings on a year-on-year basis and 
is 15.3p per share (2014: 20.2p). Headline basic earnings per share is 15.3p per share (2014: 20.2p).
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 26,179 33,903
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13,134 11,815
Tax effect of amortisation of acquired intangible assets (2,246) (2,108)
Impairment of goodwill – 6,212
Transaction costs on completed and pending acquisitions 2,534 1,582
Profit on disposal of investments – (716)
Recognition of negative goodwill from bargain purchase – (463)
Gain on revaluation of contingent consideration (2,192) (297)
Loss/(gain) on revaluation of put option liabilities over non-controlling interests 929 (318)
Imputed interest charge on put option liabilities – 100
Headline earnings for the financial year after taxation 38,338 49,710
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
11 Goodwill
Group
Goodwill 
£000
Cost 
At 1 October 2013 78,700
Additions through business combinations 6,365
Foreign exchange (11,725)
At 1 October 2014 73,340
Additions through business combinations 20,643
Foreign exchange (16,764)
At 30 September 2015 77,219
Provision for impairment
At 1 October 2013 (125)
Impairment (6,212)
Foreign exchange 13
At 1 October 2014 (6,324) 
Foreign exchange 1,595
At 30 September 2015 (4,729)
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 72,490
At 30 September 2014 67,016
 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to the reportable segments as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Russia 19,240 34,066
Central Asia 4,979 7,301
Eastern & Southern Europe 14,064 10,623
Asia 7,448 5,943
Rest of the World 26,759 9,083
72,490 67,016
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the 
value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to cash flows during the period.
Management estimates discount rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and risks 
specific to the cash-generating units. The pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash-generating units are between 11% and 30% 
(2014: 12% and 20%). ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
98
11 Goodwill continued
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts based upon the most recent one-year financial plans approved by the Board and 
extrapolates the planned cash flows. Growth rates beyond the detailed plans are based on IMF forecasts of GDP growth rates 
in the local markets, with management judgements applied to the first three years. These growth rates, of between 1% and 8% 
(2014: between 0% and 10%), do not exceed the long-term growth rates for the economies in which these business operate.
The impairment testing conducted by the Group at 30 September 2015 indicated no impairment in any CGU.
Individually significant CGUs
The Group considers that the only goodwill relating to a CGU that is individually significant (more than 15% of the Group’s total 
carrying value of goodwill and intangibles) is in respect of the Moscow and Turkey businesses.
The Moscow business has goodwill with a carrying value of £17 million. The intangible assets for the Moscow business have a 
finite useful life and are amortised in accordance with the Group amortisation policy disclosed in note 2. The recoverable amount 
of the goodwill and intangible assets was determined using the value in use calculation using the following information:
 – Cash flow forecasts based on the 2016 financial plan approved by the Board which assumes oil prices and exchange rates 
at September 2015 levels.
 – These forecasts are extrapolated based on assumed long-term growth rate for the Moscow business of 1%, based on IMF 
forecasts of GDP growth rate in Russia.
 – A pre-tax discount rate of 17%.
Using the above methodology the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by £120 million. Sensitivity analysis has 
been carried out considering reasonably possible changes to the discount rate and the forecast cash flows as outlined below, with 
neither change in key assumptions resulting in the need to recognise impairment.
The Turkey business has goodwill with a carrying value of £12 million. The intangible assets for the Turkey business have a finite 
useful life and are amortised in accordance with the Group amortisation policy disclosed in note 2. The recoverable amount of the 
goodwill and intangible assets was determined using the value in use calculation using the following information:
 – Cash flow forecasts based on the 2016 financial plan approved by the Board which assumes exchange rates at September 2015 
levels.
 – These forecasts are extrapolated based on assumed long-term growth rate for the Turkey business of 3.5%, based on IMF 
forecasts of GDP growth rate in Turkey.
 – A pre-tax discount rate of 18%.
Using the above methodology the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by £18 million. Sensitivity analysis 
has been carried out considering reasonably possible changes to the discount rate and the forecast cash flows as outlined below, 
with neither change in key assumptions resulting in the need to recognise impairment.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate and growth rates used. The Group has conducted a sensitivity 
analysis taking into consideration the impact on these assumptions arising from a range of reasonably possible trading and 
economic scenarios. The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows:
 – An increase in the discount rate by 2%.
 – A decrease of 10% on forecast cash flows over the term for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment would result from either an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in 
forecast cash flows in any CGU other than India and Siberia. For information, for the India business, an increase in the discount 
rate by 2% would decrease the value in use by £0.5 million resulting in potential impairment of £0.4 million; a decrease of 10% on 
forecast cash flows over the term of the forecast would decrease the value in use by £0.4 million resulting in potential impairment 
of £0.3 million. For the Siberia business, an increase in the discount rate by 2% would decrease the value in use by £0.2 million 
resulting in an impairment of £0.1 million; a decrease of 10% on forecast cash flows would decrease the value in use by £0.2 
million resulting in an impairment of £0.1 million.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations
Acquisitions 
The principal acquisitions made during the year to 30 September 2015, accounted for under the acquisition method, were:
Name of entity acquired Nature of entity acquired Nature of acquisition Date of acquisition Percentage acquired
Breakbulk Holdco UK Ltd Exhibition organiser Share purchase 22 December 2014 100%
TF Fuarcilik ve Organizasyon AS Exhibition organiser Share purchase 27 January 2015 100%
Africa Oil Week Exhibition organiser Asset purchase 10 March 2015 50.1%
Details of the aggregate net assets acquired as adjusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill, are presented 
as follows:
Breakbulk Holdco UK Ltd
On 22 December 2014, ITE Enterprises Limited, the Group’s wholly owned UK subsidiary, acquired 100% of the shares of Breakbulk 
Holdco UK Ltd, a company incorporated in the UK, for cash consideration of £26.9 million, of which £1.3 million was deferred and 
contingent upon the revenues of the business for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The acquired business organises events in the Transport & Logistics sector, the largest of which take place in Houston, Antwerp 
and Shanghai. As such, the acquisition of this company is consistent with ITE’s strategy of expanding into existing sectors in new 
markets, and enhances ITE’s presence in the Transport & Logistics sector.
The Group incurred transaction costs of £0.4 million in relation to this acquisition, which are included in administrative expenses.
Details of the fair values of the net assets acquired, and the attributable goodwill, are presented as follows:
Assets acquired
Fair 
value 
£000
Intangible fixed assets – Trademarks 3,943
Intangible fixed assets – Customer relationships 10,425
Cash 277
Deferred tax liability (2,930)
Other current assets 1,844
Other current liabilities (1,837)
Net assets acquired 11,722
Goodwill arising on acquisition 15,137
Total cost of acquisition
Satisfied by net cash paid 25,608
Contingent consideration 1,251
26,859
The values used in accounting for the identifiable assets and liabilities of this acquisition are provisional in nature at the balance 
sheet date. If necessary, adjustments will be made to these carrying values and the related goodwill, within 12 months of the 
acquisition date. The fair value of the other current assets acquired includes trade receivables with a fair value of £0.9 million. 
No amounts are currently expected to be uncollectable.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of £15.1 million represents the perceived value placed by the Group on synergies expected across 
its Transport & Logistics portfolio. £7.0 million of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets are expected to qualify for tax 
deductions in the US.
The acquired business has contributed £3.5 million of revenue and £1.1 million of profit to Group results since acquisition, which 
includes £0.7 million of costs incurred on future shows. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2014 the contribution of the 
acquired business to Group results would have been £5.3 million to revenue and £3.1 million to profit. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
100
12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued
Eurasia Rail
On 27 January 2015, E Uluslararasi Fuar Tanitim Hizmetleri A.S, the Group’s wholly owned Turkish subsidiary, acquired 100% of 
the shares of TF Fuarcilik ve Organizasyon AS, a company incorporated in Turkey, for cash consideration of £7.3 million, of which 
£1.2 million was deferred and contingent upon the results of the 2015 show. This contingent consideration was paid in the year.
The acquired business organises the Eurasia Rail exhibition, which takes place in March in Turkey and serves the railway industry. 
The acquisition is expected to strengthen the Group’s position in the Transport & Logistics sector.
The Group incurred transaction costs of £0.4 million in relation to this acquisition, which are included in administrative expenses.
Details of the fair values of the net assets acquired, and the attributable goodwill, are presented as follows:
Assets acquired
Fair 
value 
£000
Intangible fixed assets – Trademarks 768
Intangible fixed assets – Customer relationships 4,270
Cash 3
Deferred tax liability (1,008)
Other current assets 5
Other current liabilities (2)
Net assets acquired 4,036
Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,224 
Total cost of acquisition
Satisfied by net cash paid 6,014
Contingent consideration 1,246
 7,260
The values used in accounting for the identifiable assets and liabilities of this acquisition are provisional in nature at the balance 
sheet date. If necessary, adjustments will be made to these carrying values and the related goodwill, within 12 months of the 
acquisition date. 
Goodwill arising on acquisition of £3.2 million reflects expected synergies with the Group’s existing Transport & Logistics sector. 
None of the acquired goodwill or intangibles is expected to qualify for tax deductions. 
The acquired business has contributed £1.5 million to Group revenue and £1.0 million to profit since acquisition. If the acquisition 
had occurred on 1 October 2014 the contribution of the acquired business to Group results would be unchanged. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
12 Goodwill acquired through business combinations continued
Africa Oil Week
On 10 March 2015, the Group acquired 50.1% of a portfolio of events including Africa Oil Week for cash consideration of £16.0 
million and shares in Africa Oil Week Ltd of £15.3 million.
The acquired business organises the Africa Oil Week event, an Oil & Gas confex which takes place annually in November in 
South Africa, together with a smaller event in London. As such, the acquisition of this company is consistent with ITE’s strategy of 
expanding into existing sectors in new markets. The Group incurred transaction costs of £0.8 million in relation to this acquisition, 
which are included in administrative expenses.
Details of the fair values of the net assets acquired, and the attributable goodwill, are presented as follows:
Assets acquired
Fair 
value 
£000
Intangible fixed assets – Trademarks 4,058
Intangible fixed assets – Customer relationships 24,271
Deferred tax asset 734
Net assets acquired 29,063
Goodwill arising on acquisition 2,282
Total cost of acquisition
Satisfied by net cash paid 16,000 
Cost of issued shares 15,345 
31,345
The values used in accounting for the identifiable assets and liabilities of this acquisition are provisional in nature at the balance 
sheet date. If necessary, adjustments will be made to these carrying values and the related goodwill, within 12 months of the 
acquisition date. 
Goodwill arising on acquisition of £2.3 million reflects expected synergies with the Group’s existing Oil & Gas sector. All of the 
acquired goodwill and intangibles are expected to qualify for tax deductions in the UK. The Group has written put and call options 
over the remaining 49.9% of Africa Oil Week and has recognised a corresponding put option liability and put option reserve of 
£15.3 million.
The acquired business has contributed £0.1 million to Group revenue and a loss of £0.2 million since acquisition which includes 
£0.3 million of costs on future shows. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 October 2014 it would have contributed £6.1 million to 
revenue and £5.2 million to profit.
Other acquisitions
On 9 January 2015, ITE India Pvt Ltd, the Group’s wholly owned Indian subsidiary, acquired 100% of the assets of Palm Expo for 
cash consideration of £376,000. The assets included database, trademark and domain names. Palm Expo is held in May in India 
and serves the audio, sound and lighting market. The acquisition of this exhibition is consistent with ITE’s strategy of expanding 
into new sectors in existing markets. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102
13 Other intangible assets
Customer 
relationships
£000
Trademarks 
and licences
£000
Visitor 
databases
£000
Computer 
software
£000
Total
£000
Cost
As at 1 October 2013 70,475 23,152 630 3,624 97,881
Additions through business combinations 6,557 1,850 – 25 8,432
Additions – – – 1,503 1,503
Disposals – – – (28) (28)
Foreign exchange (8,754) (4,446) (68) (286) (13,554)
As at 1 October 2014 68,278 20,556 562 4,838 94,234
Additions through business combinations 38,966 9,145 – – 48,111
Additions – – – 1,280 1,280
Disposals – – – (15) (15)
Foreign exchange (12,684) (5,624) (114) (389) (18,811)
As at 30 September 2015 94,560 24,077 448 5,714 124,799
Amortisation
As at 1 October 2013 43,234 8,382 171 2,360 54,147
Charge for the year 8,035 3,706 74 705 12,520
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Foreign exchange (5,624) (2,002) (23) (188) (7,837)
As at 1 October 2014 45,645 10,086 222 2,876 58,829
Charge for the year 9,512 3,560 62 744 13,878
Disposals – – – – –
Foreign exchange (9,482) (3,421) (52) (266) (13,221)
As at 30 September 2015 45,675 10,225 232 3,354 59,486
Net book value
As at 30 September 2015 48,885 13,852 216 2,360 65,313
As at 30 September 2014 22,633 10,470 340 1,962 35,405
The amortisation period for customer relationships is between three and ten years, for trademarks up to 20 years and for visitor 
databases between five and eight years. Computer software is amortised over five years.
The additions to customer relationships and trademarks and licences through business combinations of £48.1 million relate to the 
purchases of Breakbulk, Eurasia Rail and Africa Oil Week. The intangibles acquired during the year are amortised in accordance 
with the Group amortisation policy for intangibles as detailed above.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
14 Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold 
land and 
buildings 
£000
Plant and 
equipment 
£000
Total 
£000
Cost 
At 1 October 2013 1,375 5,091 6,466
Additions 73 1,310 1,383
Disposals (62) (637) (699)
Foreign exchange 75 (714) (639)
At 1 October 2014 1,461 5,050 6,511
Additions 42 418 460
Disposals (13) (147) (160)
Foreign exchange (143) (706) (849)
At 30 September 2015 1,347 4,615 5,962
Depreciation
At 1 October 2013 941 3,209 4,150
Charge for the year 111 658 769
Disposals (5) (447) (452)
Foreign exchange 6 (160) (154)
At 1 October 2014 1,053 3,260 4,313
Charge for the year 93 603 696
Disposals (13) (143) (156)
Foreign exchange (102) (497) (599)
At 30 September 2015 1,031 3,223 4,254
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 316 1,392 1,708
At 30 September 2014 408 1,790 2,198
15 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership 
interest is given in note 5 to the Company’s separate financial statements.
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
104
16 Interests in associates and joint ventures
Associates and joint ventures
Country of incorporation and operation Principal activity
Description 
of holding
Group
 interest 
%
Associates
Asian Business Exhibition & Conferences Ltd India Exhibition organiser Ordinary 28.3%
Lentewenc Sp. Z.o.o Poland Exhibition organiser Ordinary 40%
The Hub Hong Kong Exhibition organiser Ordinary 40%
Joint ventures
Sinostar Incorporated in Hong Kong with 
operations in China
Exhibition organiser Ordinary 50%
ECMI Trade Fairs S.E.A. Sdn Bhd Malaysia Exhibition organiser Ordinary 50%
Debindo Unggul Buana Makmur Indonesia Exhibition organiser Ordinary 50%
ITE MF Russia Exhibition organiser Ordinary 50%
Total 
£000
At 1 October 2014 52,367
Additions 4,183
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 3,683
Dividends received (2,632)
Foreign exchange (819)
At 30 September 2015 56,782
Results of associates at 100% share
2015
£000
2014
£000
Material associate
Cash and cash equivalents 1,922 1,850
Current assets 9,146 4,571
Non-current assets 336 201
Total assets 11,404 6,621
Current liabilities (6,314) (3,770)
Current financial liabilities – –
Non-current liabilities – –
Non-current financial liabilities (100) (27)
Total liabilities (6,414) (3,797)
Revenue 12,162 10,630
Interest income – –
Interest expense – –
Depreciation and amortisation (135) (94)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 3,695 2,052
Tax expense (1,253) (696)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax 2,442 1,356
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income 2,442 1,356
Remaining associates
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (265) (394)
Tax credit 16 16
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax (249) (378)
Post tax profit/(loss) from discontinued operations – –
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income/(expense) (249) (378)
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
105
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
16 Interests in associates and joint ventures continued
Results of joint ventures at 100% share
2015
£000
2014
£000
Material joint venture
Cash and cash equivalents 12,082 7,528
Current assets 1,580 698
Non-current assets 35 26
Total assets 13,697 8,252
Current liabilities (13,183) (14,778)
Current financial liabilities – –
Non-current liabilities (40,863) (32,628)
Non-current financial liabilities – –
Total liabilities (54,046) (47,406)
Revenue 10,394 9,683
Interest income 138 80
Interest expense – –
Depreciation and amortisation (15) (21)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 6,656 4,476
Tax expense (1,491) (1,003)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax 5,165 3,473
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income 5,165 3,473
Remaining joint ventures
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 1,164 1,144
Tax expense (260) (401)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax 904 743
Post tax profit or loss from discontinued operations after tax – –
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income 904 743
The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, recognised initially at cost. 
The carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise ITE’s share of the profit or loss of the associate or joint venture after 
the date of acquisition. ITE’s share of the profit or loss of the associate or joint venture is recognised in the income statement. 
Distributions received from the associate or joint venture also reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
On 5 February 2015, ITE’s wholly owned Russian subsidiary, LLC ITE Russia, established a 50:50 joint venture, ITE MF, with MF Rus, 
a Russian-based subsidiary of Messe Frankfurt, for an investment of £3.2 million. As part of the transaction ITE MF acquired the 
Comtrans and Autotrans exhibitions serving the commercial vehicles and auto parts sector. As such, the acquisition of the joint 
venture is consistent with ITE’s strategy of expanding into new high-growth sectors.
During the year the Group also increased its investment in Lentewenc, its associate in Poland, by £0.1 million, and in its joint 
ventures with Sinostar and Debindo Unggul Buana Makmur by £0.3 million and £0.6 million respectively. The increase in the 
investment in Debindo Unggul Buana Makmur was a result of a net asset adjustment subsequent to the acquisition date. 
During the year the Group received dividends from Sinostar of approximately £2.0 million and from Asian Business Exhibition & 
Conferences Ltd of approximately £0.6 million. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
106
17 Current assets and non-current assets
Current assets
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables 23,723 32,304
Other receivables 6,458 2,180
Venue advances and prepayments 4,220 3,877
Prepayments and accrued income 6,824 6,305
41,225 44,666
Taxation prepayments 945 2,211
Taxation prepayments relate to overseas subsidiaries and are available for offset against future tax liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 17,269 28,145
The cash at bank and in hand comprises cash held by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying value of these assets approximates their fair value. The cash balance is represented by £2.8 million 
of Sterling, £4.9 million of Euros, £2.8 million of US Dollars, £1.9 million of Rubles and £4.9 million of other currencies. Surplus 
funds are placed on short-term deposit with floating interest rates.
Non-current assets
Venue advances and prepayments – non-current
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Venue advances and prepayments – non-current 2,131 6,311
Total venue advances and prepayments
The venue advances and prepayments of £2.1 million due after one year are all due within five years (2014: £6.3 million due within 
five years). The venue advances repayable by cash are measured at fair value. The venue prepayments are held at cost. All venue 
advances are stated net of allowance for doubtful receivables. The venue advances and prepayments are analysed as follows:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Venue advances
Denominated in US Dollars 689 853
Denominated in other currencies – –
689 853
Venue prepayments
Denominated in Euros 582 169
Denominated in US Dollars 714 2
Denominated in other currencies 4,366 9,164
5,662 9,335
Total venue advances and prepayments 6,351 10,188
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
107
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
18 Bank borrowings
During the year the Group extended its multi-currency revolving credit facility to £100 million (30 September 2014: £80 million) 
committed through to 31 March 2019 (30 September 2014: 30 June 2018). The facility amortises by £7 million in each of June 2016, 
June 2017 and June 2018. The facility remains secured by a guarantee between a number of Group companies.
The Group’s borrowings are arranged at floating interest rates, thus exposing the Group to interest rate risk. Drawdowns under 
the facility bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin of 2.15%. During the year ended 30 September 2015, the 
average interest rate on the Group’s borrowings approximated 2.6% (2014: 2.4%).
The total drawdowns under the facility of £69.6 million at 30 September 2015 were denominated in Sterling (£65.0 million) and US 
Dollars (£4.6 million) (2014: £42.9 million in Sterling). The Directors estimate that the carrying value of the borrowings approximates 
their fair value. At 30 September 2015 the Group had £30.4 million (2014: £37.1 million) of undrawn committed facilities.
19 Trade and other payables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Trade payables 2,598 2,132
Taxation and social security 2,338 2,961
Other payables 2,879 2,284
Accruals 6,573 9,316
Contingent consideration 1,556 4,922
15,944 21,615
Deferred income 49,831 60,776
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The Directors 
consider that the carrying value of trade payables approximates their fair value.
The movements in deferred and contingent consideration during the year are shown in the table below:
Total 
£000
At 1 October 2014 4,922
Arising on acquisition 2,497
Settlement (3,671)
Revaluation (2,192)
At 30 September 2015 1,556
20 Provisions 
National 
Insurance 
on share 
options 
£000
Leases 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 October 2014 127 274 401
Charged/(credited) to income statement 36 (53) (17)
Utilised in the period (57) – (57)
At 30 September 2015 106 221 327
Included in current liabilities 137
Included in non-current liabilities 190
327
National Insurance on share options is calculated by reference to the employer’s National Insurance cost on the potential gain 
based on the difference between the exercise price and share price for those share options where the share price exceeds the 
exercise price at 30 September 2015.
The lease provision relates to the spreading of a reduced rent period over the full period of the lease. 
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
108
21 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities
Details of the accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed 
in the accounting policies note on pages 83 to 91.
Categories and maturities of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are classified according to the following categories in the table below.
30 September 2015
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value
£000
Contractual 
cash flows 
£000
Less than 
1 year
£000
1–2 years
£000
2–5 years
£000
Greater than 
5 years
£000
Non-derivative financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 17,269 17,269 17,269 – – –
Available for sale – investments – – – – – –
Loans and receivables:
 Trade receivables 23,723 23,723 23,723 – – –
 Other receivables 6,458 6,458 6,458 – – –
 Venue loans 6,351 6,351 3,604 837 1,910 –
53,801 53,801 51,054 837 1,910 –
Derivative financial assets
Designated cash flow hedge 3,479 30,593 18,148 12,445 – –
Equity option assets:
 ABEC – 33,797 13,948 – 19,849 –
 ECMI – 1,597 – – 1,597 –
 Debindo – 2,748 – 2,748 – –
57,280 122,536 83,150 16,030 23,356 –
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loan 69,616 69,616 – – 69,616 –
Amortised cost:
 Trade payables 2,598 2,598 2,598 – – –
 Other payables 2,879 2,879 2,879 – – –
 Accruals 6,573 6,573 6,573 – – –
 Contingent consideration 1,556 1,556 1,556 – – –
83,222 83,222 13,606 – 69,616 –
Derivative financial liabilities
Put option liabilities:
 Tradelink 1,531 1,531 1,531 – – –
 Scoop 803 803 – – – 803
 AOW 15,455 15,455 7,523 7,932 – –
 ABEC – 33,797 13,948 – 19,849 –
 ECMI – 1,597 – – 1,597 –
 Debindo – 2,748 – 2,748 – –
Designated cash flow hedge 99 10,444 – 10,444 – –
101,110 149,597 36,608 21,124 91,062 803
The Tradelink, Scoop and AOW put option liabilities have not been discounted as the effect is not material. The options held in 
respect of ABEC, ECMI and Debindo are valued at £nil. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial 
statements approximate to their fair value due to the short maturity of the instruments. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
109
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
21 Financial instruments continued
30 September 2014
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value
£000
Contractual 
cash flows
£000
Less than 
1 year
£000
1–2 years
£000
2–5 years
£000
Greater than 
5 years
£000
Non-derivative financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 28,145 28,145 28,145 – – –
Available for sale – investments – – – – – –
Loans and receivables:
 Trade receivables 32,304 32,304 32,304 – – –
 Other receivables 2,180 2,180 2,180 – – –
 Venue loans 10,188 10,188 3,416 5,067 1,705 –
72,817 72,817 66,045 5,067 1,705 –
Derivative financial assets
Designated cash flow hedge 3,301 64,132 31,910 32,222 –  – 
Equity option assets:
 ABEC – 25,588 9,811 –  – 15,777
 ECMI – 831 –  – 405 426
 Debindo – 2,476 –  – 2,476 – 
76,118 165,844 107,766 37,289 4,586 16,203
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdraft – – – – – –
Bank loan 42,900 42,900 – – 42,900 –
Amortised cost:
 Trade payables 2,132 2,132 2,132 – – –
 Other payables 2,284 2,284 2,284 – – –
 Accruals 9,316 9,316 9,316 – – –
 Contingent consideration 4,922 4,922 4,922 – – –
61,554 61,554 18,654 – 42,900 –
Derivative financial liabilities
Put option liabilities:
 Tradelink 1,232 1,232 – 1,232 – – 
 Scoop 283 283 – – – 283
 ABEC – 25,588 9,811 –  – 15,777
 ECMI – 831 –  – 405 426
 Debindo – 2,476 –  – 2,476 – 
Designated cash flow hedge – – – – – –
63,069 91,964 28,465 1,232 45,781 16,486
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of foreign currency risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk 
exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board. Compliance with policies 
and exposure limits is reviewed by the Board on a continuous basis. The Group does not enter into financial instruments, 
including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
110
21 Financial instruments continued
Fair value hierarchy
The following table categorises the Group’s financial instruments which are held at fair value into 1 of 3 levels to reflect the degree 
to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: 
30 September 2015
Fair 
value 
£000
Level 1 
£000
Level 2 
£000
Level 3 
£000 
Assets measured at fair value
Foreign currency forward contracts 3,479 – 3,479 –
Equity options – – – –
Total 3,479 – 3,479 –
Liabilities measured at fair value
Foreign currency forward contracts 99 – 99 –
Put options 17,789 – – 17,789
Total 17,888 – 99 17,789
30 September 2014
Fair 
value 
£000
Level 1 
£000
Level 2 
£000
Level 3 
£000
Assets measured at fair value
Foreign currency forward contracts 3,301 – 3,301 –
Equity options – – – –
Total 3,301 – 3,301 –
Liabilities measured at fair value
Foreign currency forward contracts – – – –
Put options 1,515 – 1,515 –
Total 1,515 – 1,515 –
Level 1: Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset 
or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 
Financial risk management
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to a number of financial risks: market risk (including foreign currency and interest 
rate), credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. This note presents the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks. The Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks can be found in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 37.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Board 
has established policies to identify and analyse risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor 
risks and adherence to limits.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Group’s income or the value of its 
holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk. Market risk exposures are 
measured using sensitivity analysis.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations 
arise. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward-plus or forward foreign 
exchange contracts. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
111
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
21 Financial instruments continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting 
date are as follows:
Financial assets
2015
£000
2014
£000
EUR 16,049 18,089
GBP 7,351 12,756
USD 5,148 3,934
RUB 14,415 24,040
Other 14,317 17,299
57,280 76,118
Financial liabilities
2015
£000
2014
£000
EUR 1,376 683
GBP 85,935 50,363
USD 5,208 –
RUB 1,103 3,129
Other 7,488 8,894
101,110 63,069
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below details the impact of a 10% strengthening in the Group’s significant currencies against Sterling, 
applied to the net monetary assets or liabilities of the Group.
2015 (£000) USD EUR RUB OTHER
Monetary assets 5,148 16,049 14,415 21,668
Monetary liabilities (5,208) (1,376) (1,103) (93,423)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (60) 14,673 13,312 (71,755)
Currency impact
Profit before tax gain/(loss) (110) 1,214 7 225
Equity gain/(loss) 137 266 1,516 (5,992)
2014 (£000) USD EUR RUB OTHER
Monetary assets 3,934 18,089 24,040 30,055
Monetary liabilities 0 (683) (3,129) (59,257)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) 3,934 17,406 20,911 (29,202)
Currency impact
Profit before tax gain/(loss) 31 111 2,086 (2,799)
Equity gain/(loss) 362 1,630 5 (122)
The following significant exchange rates versus Sterling applied during the year and in the prior year:
 Average Reporting date
2015 2014 2015 2014
EUR 1.30 1.22 1.35 1.28
USD 1.54 1.66 1.52 1.62
RUB 85.0 57.5 99.30 64.03 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
112
21 Financial instruments continued
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
As at 30 September 2015 the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that the Group has committed 
to amounted to £41.0 million (2014: £64.1 million). These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures 
for the next 36 months and are renewed on a revolving basis as required, subject to not committing the Group to less than six 
months or more than 36 months in the future.
At 30 September 2015, the fair value of these derivatives is estimated to be a net asset of approximately £3.4 million (2014: net 
asset of £3.3 million). These amounts are based on market valuations.
Interest rate risk management
As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, other than cash, the Group’s income and operating cash flows are 
substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowings at 
floating interest rates. This risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate level of floating interest rate borrowings. 
The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of 
this note.
Interest structure of financial liabilities
2015
£000
2014
£000
Financial liabilities at variable rates:
Bank loan 69,616 42,900
The following average interest rates applied during the year and in the prior year:
Bank loan Bank overdraft
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
GBP 2.6 2.2 n/a n/a
EUR – – n/a n/a
USD 1.7 – n/a n/a
Average interest rates applicable to cash balances were 1.4% in 2015 and 3.3% in 2014.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for financial assets and financial 
liabilities at the balance sheet date. With all other variables held constant, the table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 1% 
change in interest rates applied to the major currencies of net variable rate asset/liabilities. 1% is the sensitivity rate that 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
USD denominated EUR denominated GBP denominated RUB denominated Other denominated
£000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 2,842 1,578 4,865 7,141 2,812 9,558 1,942 3,059 4,808 6,809
Bank loan (4,616) – – – (65,000) (42,900) – – – –
Net variable rate (liabilities)/assets – 1,578 – 7,141 – (33,342) – 3,059 – 6,809
USD denominated EUR denominated GBP denominated RUB denominated Other denominated
£000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Profit before tax – (loss)/gain
+ 1% change in interest rates (18) 16 49 71 (622) (333) 19 31 48 68
- 1% change in interest rates 18 (16) (49) (71) 622 333 (19) (31) (48) (68)
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
113
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
21 Financial instruments continued
Credit risk management
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its contractual obligations. The Group’s principal financial assets are 
cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, venue advances and derivative financial instruments. These represent 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing 
with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group’s objective is to 
ensure all customers have paid before any service is provided to them. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the 
customer base being large and unrelated.
The ageing profile of the Group’s trade receivables and the details of the Group’s allowances for doubtful receivables can be 
seen below.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments arises due to where the liquid funds are held. The territories 
in which ITE operates do not always have banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies such as 
Moody’s and Fitch. The Group aims to minimise the exposure to credit risk by minimising the level of cash held in such banks. 
The Group’s exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions 
concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit rating of financial assets (excluding loans and receivables and derivative assets)
2015
£000
2014
£000
Investments grade A and above 72% 12,396 16,298
Investments grade B and above 19% 3,305 9,202
Investments grade C or below or not rated 9% 1,568 2,645
100% 17,269 28,145
The source of the credit ratings is Moody’s and Fitch.
Ageing profile of trade receivables
Show start date Contract terms
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Not past due 22,420 31,529 11,073 15,077
Past due 1-30 days 841 457 7,315 9,961
Past due 31-60 days 3 20 1,197 1,630
Past due 61-90 days 43 60 413 562
Past due 91-120 days 13 35 2,641 3,596
Past due more than 120 days 403 203 1,084 1,478
23,723 32,304 23,723 32,304
Management review debtors’ ageing on a contractual basis and also based on when an event has been held. The Group raises 
invoices on events using stage payments. Any overdue amounts, after the stage payment due date, are reviewed and chased. 
Management also review the debts due based on when an event has taken place, as this is typically when the service is provided. 
Both measures are included in the table above as both are used by management to manage outstanding debts.
The trade receivables amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful 
receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience, specific credit issues and their assessment of the 
current economic environment. Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across diverse industries and 
geographical areas and the Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. 
The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including default risk of the industry and country, in which the customers operate, 
has less of an influence on credit risk. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
114
21 Financial instruments continued
The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful debts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade 
receivables when there is objective evidence that the debt will not be collected in full. The allowance is recognised and measured 
as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows. Where material, it is discounted 
at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition. The main component of this allowance is a specific loss component 
that relates to individually significant exposure on shows which have taken place but the debt has not been collected in full. This 
allowance is determined by reference to the specific circumstances of each show and past experience.
The details of the movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables are shown below.
Allowance for doubtful receivables
2015
£000
2014
£000
At 1 October 565 467
Allowances made in the period 696 417
Amounts used and reversal of unused amounts (476) (319)
785 565
Ageing of impaired receivables
2015
£000
2014
£000
Past due 0-3 months 379 260
Past due 3-6 months 165 143
Past due more than 6 months 241 162
785 565
No allowance for doubtful receivables relating to venue loans was held in the current year (2014: £0.1 million). 
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as they fall due. Such risk may result from 
inadequate market depth or disruption or refinancing problems. Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with 
the Board of Directors. They have built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Group’s 
short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by ensuring continuity of funding for operational needs through cash deposits and debt 
facilities as appropriate. 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising 
the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists 
of cash and cash equivalents and bank loan which are disclosed in note 17 and note 18 and equity attributable to equity holders 
of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 23 and in the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity.
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
115
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
22 Deferred tax
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£000
Intangibles
£000
Tax losses
£000
Provisions 
and accruals
£000
Hedges
£000
Share-based 
payments
£000
Repatriation 
of profit
£000
Total
£000
At 1 October 2013 65 (9,677) – 433 89 734 (975) (9,331)
Transfers – – – 126 – – – 126
(Charge)/credit to income 75 2,340 106 (404) – (219) (298) 1,600
Charge to OCI – – – – (749) – – (749)
Charge to equity – – – – – (134) – (134)
Acquisition of subsidiary – (1,766) – – – – – (1,766)
Exchange – 1,340 – (87) – – – 1,253
At 1 October 2014 140 (7,763) 106 68 (660) 381 (1,273) (9,001)
Transfers
(Charge)/credit to income 92 2,207 353 (49) – (116) (90) 2,397
Charge to OCI – – – – (15) – – (15)
Charge to equity – – – – – (171) – (171)
Acquisition of subsidiary – (3,224) – – – – – (3,224)
Exchange – 1,627 – (6) – – – 1,621
At 30 September 2015 232 (7,153) 459 13 (675) 94 (1,363) (8,393)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in the above table. The following is the analysis of deferred tax 
balances for financial reporting purposes:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Deferred tax liabilities (10,045) (10,932)
Deferred tax assets 1,652 1,931
(8,393) (9,001)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £7.7 million (2014: £7.0 million) available for offset against future 
profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses in either year due to the unpredictability of future 
profit streams. These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £14 million (2014: £20 million). No liability has been recognised in 
respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences 
and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
  ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
116
23 Share capital
2015
£000
2014
£000
Authorised
375,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: 375,000,000) 3,750 3,750
Allotted and fully-paid
256,973,631 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: 249,372,524) 2,570 2,497
During the year, the Company allotted 88,928 (2014: 348,000) ordinary shares of 1p each pursuant to the exercise of share 
options. Nil (2014: nil) ordinary shares were issued in respect of Directors’ remuneration. The total consideration for the shares 
issued was £889 (2014: £11,930).
During the year, the Company placed 7,164,179 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: nil) at a price of 167.5p per share with 
institutional investors, representing approximately 2.9% of the Company’s existing issued share capital. Total proceeds from the 
placing were £12 million.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 
17 November 1998, shareholders approved the establishment of the ITE Group Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT). The terms 
of the ESOT allow the trustees to transfer shares to employees who exercise options under the Company’s Share Option Schemes, to 
grant options to employees and to accumulate shares by buying in the market or subscribing for shares at market value. The ESOT is 
capable of holding a maximum of 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. The ESOT reserve arises in connection with the 
Employee Share Ownership Trust. The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds for the 
consideration paid for the Company’s shares purchased by the Trust which had not vested unconditionally in employees at the 
balance sheet date.
The ESOT held 3,168,153 shares in ITE Group plc at 30 September 2015 (2014: 3,703,588 shares). During the year 3,344,500 share 
options and 629,500 nominal share options under the Employees’ Performance Share Plan were granted against ESOT-held shares. 
No shares (2014: 1,665,000 shares) were purchased for the EESOT. The market value of the ordinary shares held by the ESOT at 30 
September 2015 was £4.5 million (2014: £6.3 million).
The Company has agreed to make available to the ESOT an interest-free loan of up to £12.5 million for the purpose of buying 
shares. At 30 September 2015, the amount of the loan drawn down was £11.6 million. The ITE Group plc Company-only profit and 
loss account and balance sheet include the results of the ESOT for the year ended 30 September 2015. The trustees have waived 
their current and future rights to all dividend entitlement on the shares held by the ESOT. 535,435 options were exercised from 
the ESOT during the year. The total consideration for the options exercised from the ESOT was £5,243. 8,871,679 of outstanding 
options are to be settled by the ESOT, so all shares held by the ESOT are under option as at 30 September 2015. Details of the 
options in issue and their exercise dates can be seen at note 26 to the accounts.
24 Non-controlling interests
2015
£000
2014
£000
1 October 942 4,519
Non-controlling interest arising on acquisition during the year 15,345 34
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year (317) (668)
Reduction in non-controlling interest due to acquisition of non-controlling interest during the year – (3,119)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 391 176
30 September 16,361 942
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
117
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
25 Operating lease arrangements
The Group has a number of operating leases for which it is a lessee. 
2015
£000
2014
£000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year:
Land and buildings 2,352 2,589
Venues 25,945 37,907
At 30 September 2015 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Land and 
buildings
2015
£000
Venues
2015
£000
Land and 
buildings
2014
£000
Venues
2014
£000
Within one year 1,425 3,173 2,072 8,172
Between two and five years 2,507 – 2,528 –
After five years 81 – 215 –
4,013 3,173 4,815 8,172
Operating lease payments for land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of two years. Payments for venues represent the non-cancellable amount of contracted venue 
agreements for future events.
The Group also earned rental income of £0.4 million during the year (2014: £0.4 million) from sub-letting unused space in the 
London office.
26 Share-based payments
The Company operates two share option schemes.
Share option plans
The Company operates a share option plan for certain employees of the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the 
average quoted market price of the Company’s share on the date of grant. The vesting period is either three or five years and 
options are exercisable up to ten years from granting. The options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the 
options vest.
Performance share plans
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan (PSP) for executives and staff. Awards under the PSP are at an exercise value 
of 1p. Awards can be made to an employee over shares up to a maximum of 100% of base salary, or 150% for the Chief Executive, 
each year based on market value. The vesting period is three years and awards are exercisable up to ten years from the date of 
grant. For conditional awards the vesting is automatic on the satisfaction of performance targets. The options are forfeited if the 
employee leaves the Group before the options vest. The awards are also subject to a performance target. Further details of the 
performance targets can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 63. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
118
26 Share-based payments continued
Details of the share options outstanding as at 30 September 2015 are as follows:
Number 
of share 
options
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
2015
Number 
of share 
options
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
2014
Share option plans
Outstanding at beginning of period 3,521,500 226.5 3,449,500 221.2
Granted during the period 3,344,500 146.5 921,000 240.9
Lapsed during the period (631,581) 205.5 (200,500) 224.0
Exercised during the period – – (648,500) 219.3
6,234,419 185.7 3,521,500 226.5
Performance share plans
Outstanding at beginning of period 3,099,900 1.0 3,548,000 1.0
Granted during the period 629,500 1.0 906,500 1.0
Lapsed during the period (370,791) 1.0 (61,700) 1.0
Exercised during the period (613,199) 1.0 (1,292,900) 1.0
2,745,410 1.0 3,099,900 1.0
The total number of exercisable options in the share option plans is 50,000 and in the performance share plans is 312,250.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 149p. The options 
outstanding at 30 September 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of 129p, and a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 476 days. In 2015, Share Options and Performance Share Plan options were granted on 12 January 2015. The aggregate of 
the estimated fair value of these options is £0.9 million and £nil respectively. 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for the instruments issued during the year are as follows:
Performance 
share plan
2015
Share 
options 
plan
2015
Performance 
share plan
2014
Share 
options plan
2014
Weighted average share price 1p 143p 1p 229p
Weighted average exercise price 1p 146p 1p 229p
Expected volatility 38% 38% 28.0% 28.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.70% 0.70% 0.92% 0.92%
Dividend yield 3.50% 3.50% 2.35% 2.35%
The Group recognised a total expense of £0.1 million (2014: £0.4 million) related to equity-settled share-based 
payment arrangements. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
119
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
27 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates, where relevant, are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year ended 30 September 2015 the Group charged management fees of £377,000 (2014: £nil) to Sinostar ITE, the 
Group’s joint venture operation in Hong Kong and China. The Group also earned commission of £65,000 on sales made on events 
organised by Lentewenc Sp z.o.o, the Group’s associate company in Poland.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and the Senior Management Board, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set 
out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related party disclosures. Further information about the 
remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 69.
2015
£000
2014
£000
Emoluments 2,594 3,121
Share-based payment 393 1,490
2,987 4,611
28 Post-balance sheet events
On 3 November 2015 the Group’s wholly owned subsidiary, Airgate Holdings Ltd, exercised its option to acquire a further 31.7% 
of the shares of ABEC Exhibitions and Conferences Pvt Ltd (ABEC) for £14 million in cash. This takes the Group’s total holding in 
ABEC to 60%. A put option exists over the remaining 40% stake in ABEC. The acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing 
in ITE’s 2016 financial year.
Due to the proximity to the date of signing of these accounts, the accounting and disclosure impact of this acquisition has not 
been finalised. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
120
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 5 6,890 6,643
Intangible assets 5 52 55
6,942 6,698
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 6 138,130 157,124
Cash at bank and in hand 117 113
Deferred tax asset 7 83 129
138,330 157,366
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (9,115) (16,730)
Net current assets 129,215 140,636
Total assets less current liabilities 136,157 147,334
Bank loan – (3,235)
Net assets 136,157 144,099
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9, 10 2,570 2,497
Share premium account 10 14,875 2,947
Merger reserve 10 2,746 2,746
Capital redemption reserve 10 457 457
ESOT reserve 10 (4,825) (5,641)
Profit and loss account 10 120,334 141,093
Shareholders’ funds 136,157 144,099
The accounts of the Company, registered number 01927339, on pages 120 to 126, were approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on their behalf, on 30 November 2015, by:
Russell Taylor 
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2015
Neil Jones
Chief Financial Officer
30 November 2015
Company Balance Sheet
30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
121
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
1 Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The financial 
statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Group going concern disclosure on page 35.
These accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and have been applied 
consistently.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard No.1 (Revised 1996) from the requirement to 
produce a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows are included in the Group cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3(c) of Financial Reporting Standard No. 8, Related 
Party Transactions, not to disclose transactions with other members of the Group.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the 
preceding year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any impairment.
Intangible assets
Trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life. The 
estimated useful lives are up to 20 years.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade debtors and creditors
Trade debtors and creditors are stated at their nominal value. Trade debtors are reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Bank borrowings
Bank overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges are accounted for on an accrual 
basis to profit or loss.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Group’s taxable profits and its results as 
stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from 
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of 
the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Notes to the Company accounts
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
122
1 Basis of accounting continued
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to 
sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the financial statements. Neither is 
deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being 
charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are 
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at that 
date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing at the date the fair value was determined. Gains and 
losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets are included in profit or loss for the period.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
The financial statements include the assets and liabilities of the Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT). Shares in the Company 
held by the ESOT have been valued at cost and are held in equity. The costs of administration of the ESOT are written off to profit 
or loss as incurred.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, any net consideration received is included in equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. These are measured at fair value (excluding 
the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the 
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using a Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, for the effects 
of non–transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations based on management’s best estimate.
Details of the Company’s equity-settled share-based payments are included in note 26 to the Group accounts.
2 Loss for the year
The loss after tax for the year ended 30 September 2015 was £1.9 million (2014: profit of £59.1 million). As permitted by section 
408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Company.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Staff costs
a) Number of employees
The average number of persons (including Directors) employed by the Company during the year was as follows:
2015
No.
2014
No.
Directors 7 7
b) Employee costs
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2015
£000
2014
£000
Wages and salaries 1,243 1,781
Social security costs 172 215
Share-based payments (99) (28)
1,316 1,968
Highest paid Director 567 783
Notes to the Company accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
123
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
4 Dividends
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 4.9p (2014: 2.3p) per ordinary share 12,053 11,581
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 2.5p (2014: 2.5p) per ordinary share 6,345 6,141
18,398 17,722
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 4.9p (2014: 4.9p) per ordinary share 12,436 12,055
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. Under the terms of the trust deed dated 20 October 1998, the ITE Group Employees’ Share 
Ownership Trust, which holds 3,168,153 (2014: 3,703,588) ordinary shares representing 1.2% of the Company’s called up ordinary 
share capital, has agreed to waive all dividends due to it each year. 
5 Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries
The Company has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings. The principal activity of all the companies listed is the 
organisation of exhibitions and conferences, except RAS Publishing Limited which publishes trade magazines.
Subsidiary undertakings
Country of incorporation or 
principal business address Effective holding %
ITE Holdings Ltd
1
England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Enterprises Limited England Ordinary shares 100
International Trade and Exhibitions (JV) Limited England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Exhibitions & Conferences Limited England Ordinary shares 100
Gima International Exhibition Group GmbH & Co KG Germany Ordinary shares 100
Fin-mark S.r.l.u Italy Ordinary shares 100
ITE Eurasian Exhibitions FZ LLC United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100
International Trade and Exhibitions (ITE) Worldwide B.V. Netherlands Ordinary shares 100
ITE Exhibitions BV Netherlands Ordinary shares 100
ITE LLC Russia Ordinary shares 100
ITE Expo LLC Russia Ordinary shares 100
OOO Primexpo Russia Ordinary shares 100
Primexpo North West LLC Russia Ordinary shares 100
ITE Siberia Russia Ordinary shares 100
International Exhibition Company CJSC (MVK) Russia Ordinary shares 100
Krasnodar Expo Russia Ordinary shares 100
ITECA LLP Kazakhstan Ordinary shares 100
Iteca Caspian LLC Azerbaijan Ordinary shares 100
ITE Uzbekistan Uzbekistan Ordinary shares 100
ITE Moda Limited England Ordinary shares 100
RAS Publishing Limited England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Moda Footwear Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
Jacket Required Limited England Ordinary shares 100
E Uluslararasi Fuar Tantitim Hizmetleri A.S. Turkey Ordinary shares 100
Ekin Fuar A.S. Turkey Ordinary shares 100
Yem Fuar Turkey Ordinary shares 100
Premier Expo Ukraine Ordinary shares 100
Beautex Co LLC Ukraine Ordinary shares 100
Newex Marketing Limited Malta Ordinary shares 100
Airgate Holdings Limited Cyprus Ordinary shares 100
International Trade and Exhibitions India Private Ltd India Ordinary shares 100
ITE Asia Pacific SDN BHD Malaysia Ordinary shares 100
Trade Link ITE SDN BHD Malaysia Ordinary shares 75
ITE Asia Pte Ltd Singapore Ordinary shares 100
ITE Asia Exhibitions Ltd Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100
Cementone Properties Limited
1
England Ordinary shares 100
IEG International Limited
1
England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Events South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa Ordinary shares 100 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
124
5 Fixed assets continued
Subsidiary undertakings
Country of incorporation or 
principal business address Effective holding %
ITE Russia Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE (US) Exhibitions Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE (Europe) Exhibitions Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE International Holdings BV Netherlands Ordinary shares 100
IEC Inter Expo Consult Abwicklungs und Verwaltungs GmbH Germany Ordinary shares 100
RAS Holdings Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
WWB Magazines Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
MWB Magazines Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Footwear Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ZAO Primexpo Russia Ordinary shares 100
ITE Expo UK Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE International Trade and Exhibitions EURL Algeria Ordinary shares 100
ITECA ALA–TOO LLC Kyrgyzstan Ordinary shares 100
ITE International Exhibitions and Conferences Service(Beijing) Co Ltd China Ordinary shares 100
Azerexpomontage Azerbaijan Ordinary shares 49
Too Kazexpomontag LLP Kazhakstan Ordinary shares 100
International Trade and Exhibitions Overseas Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
Intermedia Exhibitions and Conferences Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITE Exhibitions Iberica SL Spain Ordinary shares 100
ITE Poland Sp ZOO Poland Ordinary shares 100
ITE Overseas Holdings BV Netherlands Ordinary shares 100
ITE Eurasian Exhibitions Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
ITECA Kavkasia Georgia Ordinary shares 100
ITE Russia LLC UK Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
Siberian Fair LLC Russia Ordinary shares 100
Scoop International Fashion Limited England Ordinary shares 95
Summit Trade Events Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
Platform Exhibitions Inc Turkey Ordinary shares 100
Breakbulk UK Holdco Ltd England Ordinary shares 100
Breakbulk US Holdco Inc USA Ordinary shares 100
Breakbulk Ireland Ltd Ireland Ordinary shares 100
Breakbulk US Opco Inc USA Ordinary shares 100
Breakbulk Events and Media (China) Ltd China Ordinary shares 100
Africa Oil Week Ltd England Ordinary shares 50.1
ITE Global LLC Russia Ordinary shares 100
Media Globe Hannover Expo JSC Russia Ordinary shares 100
IT Fuarcilik ve Organiszasyon Anonim Sirketi Turkey Ordinary shares 100
Premier ITE Malaysia Ordinary shares 75
1 Held directly by ITE Group plc.
The Company has guaranteed the liabilities of the following subsidiary undertakings in order that they qualify for the exemption 
from audit granted by s479A of the Companies Act. The Directors of the Company expect that the possibility of this guarantee 
being called upon is remote.
 – Intermedia Exhibitions & Conferences Ltd
 – ITE Eurasian Exhibitions Ltd
 – IEG International Ltd
 – ITE Enterprises Ltd
 – International Trade & Exhibitions Overseas Ltd
 – ITE Russia Ltd
 – ITE Holdings Ltd
 – ITE (US) Exhibitions Ltd
 – ITE (Europe) Exhibitions Ltd
 – ITE Russia LLC UK Ltd
 – RAS Holdings Ltd
 – Summit Trade Events Ltd
 – Breakbulk UK Holdco Ltd
 – Africa Oil Week Ltd
Notes to the Company accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
125
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
5 Fixed assets continued
Subsidiary undertakings
Shares
£000
Capital 
contribution
£000
Loans
£000
Total
£000
Cost
1 October 2014 1,429 5,643 23,574 30,646
Capital contribution – 247 – 247
30 September 2015 1,429 5,890 23,574 30,893
Provision for impairment
1 October 2014 and 30 September 2015 429 – 23,574 24,003
Net book value
30 September 2015 1,000 5,890 – 6,890
30 September 2014 1,000 5,643 – 6,643
Intangible assets
Trademarks 
£000
Cost
1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 77
Additions in the year 5
30 September 2015 82
Amortisation
1 October 2014 22
Charge in the year 8
30 September 2015 30
Net book value 
30 September 2015 52
30 September 2014 55
 
6 Debtors due within one year
2015
£000
2014
£000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 136,241 155,835
Prepayments and accrued income 1,582 366
Corporation tax – Group relief 270 913
Other debtors 37 10
138,130 157,124
The amounts owed by Group undertakings are payable on demand and bear no interest.
7 Deferred tax
Share-based 
payments 
£000
1 October 2014 129
Charged to income (46)
30 September 2015 83
At the balance sheet date the Company has unused tax losses of £2.4 million (2014: £3.2 million) available for offset against future 
profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
126
8 Trade and other creditors
2015
£000
2014
£000
Overdrafts 5,145 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3,813 16,495
Accruals 17 133
Other creditors 140 102
9,115 16,730
The amounts owed to Group undertakings are payable on demand and bear no interest. At a Group level the overdraft is offset by 
cash pooling arrangements with other Group companies.
9 Called up share capital
2015
£000
2014
£000
Authorised
375,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: 375,000,000) 3,750 3,750
Allotted and fully–paid
256,973,631 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: 249,372,524) 2,570 2,497
During the year, the Company allotted 88,928 (2014: 348,000) ordinary shares of 1p each pursuant to the exercise of share 
options. Nil (2014: nil) ordinary shares were issued in respect of Directors’ remuneration. The total consideration for the shares 
issued was £889 (2014: £11,930).
During the year, the Company placed 7,164,179 ordinary shares of 1p each (2014: nil) at a price of 167.5p per share with institutional 
investors, representing approximately 2.9% of the Company’s existing issued share capital. Total proceeds from the placing were 
£12 million.
 
10 Reserves and reconciliation of equity shareholders’ funds
Called up 
share capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
account 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£000
ESOT 
reserve 
£000
Profit and 
loss account 
£000
Total 
£000
1 October 2013 2,494 2,938 2,746 457 (3,530) 99,511 104,616
Exercise of options 3 9 – – 1,640 (217) 1,435
Acquisition of shares for ESOT – – – – (3,751) – (3,751)
Net profit for the year – – – – – 59,083 59,083
Dividends paid – – – – – (17,731) (17,731)
Capital contribution – – – – – 475 475
Share-based payments – – – – – (28) (28)
30 September 2014 2,497 2,947 2,746 457 (5,641) 141,093 144,099
Exercise of options 1 – – – 816 (810) 7
Net loss for the year – – – – – (1,699) (1,699)
Dividends paid – – – – – (18,398) (18,398)
Capital contribution – – – – – 247 247
Share-based payments – – – – – (99) (99)
Placing 72 11,928 – – – – 12,000
30 September 2015 2,570 14,875 2,746 457 (4,825) 120,334 136,157
Notes to the Company accounts continued
For the year ended 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
127
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Financial calendar
Pre close announcement 1 October 2015 
Preliminary results announcement 1 December 2015
Annual General Meeting 28 January 2016
Q1 IMS 28 January 2016
Interim results announcement 9 May 2016
Q3 IMS 12 July 2016
Range of holdings
Number of 
shareholders
Percentage of total 
shareholders
Ordinary shares 
(million)
Percentage of issued 
share capital
1–100 210 16.99% 5,889 0.00%
101–1,000 291 23.54% 150,723 0.06%
1,001–10,000 456 36.89% 1,545,656 0.60%
10,001–100,000 142 11.49% 5,216,716 2.03%
100,001–1,000,000 91 7.36% 33,111,080 12.89%
1,000,001–Highest 46 3.72% 216,943,567 84.42%
1,236 100% 256,973,631 100%
Category
Number of
 shareholders
Percentage of total 
shareholders
Ordinary shares 
(million)
Percentage of issued 
share capital
Private individuals 786 63.59% 3,514,854 1.37%
Nominee companies 292 23.62% 230,279,950 89.61%
Limited and Public Limited Companies 127 10.27% 17,287,277 6.73%
Other organisations and banks 31 2.51% 5,891,550 2.3%
1,236 100% 256,973,631 100%
Share price 
London Stock Exchange, pence per 1p shares
Highest 196.75p
Lowest 128.00p
Dividend calendar
Final dividend 2015
Ex-dividend date 7 January 2016
Record date 8 January 2016
Payment date 8 February 2016
Interim dividend 2016
Ex-dividend date 23 June 2016
Record date 24 June 2016
Payment date 4 August 2016
Dividend mandates
Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Registrar for 
a dividend mandate form.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account 
is credited on the due date.
Share dealing services
The Company’s Registrar, Equiniti Limited, offers a telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview, which provides a simple 
and convenient way of buying and selling shares. For telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, 
Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log onto www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
Electronic communications
Shareholders can elect to receive shareholder documents electronically by registering with Shareview at www.shareview.co.uk. 
This will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits. When you register, you will be sent an email 
notification to say when shareholder documents are available on our website and you will be provided with a link to that 
information. When registering, you will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on your share certificate 
or proxy form. Please contact Equiniti if you require any assistance or further information.
Shareholder information
Shareholder profile as at 30 September 2015 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
128
Directors
Marco Sodi
Non-executive Chairman
Russell Taylor
Chief Executive Officer 
Neil Jones
Chief Financial Officer
Linda Jensen
Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Director 
Sharon Baylay
Non-executive Director
Neil England
Non-executive Director
Stephen Puckett
Non-executive Director
Company Secretary
Anneka Milham 
Registered office
ITE Group plc
105 Salusbury Road 
London, NW6 6RG
Registration number
1927339
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London, EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Olswang LLP
90 High Holborn 
London, WC1V 6XX
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place 
London, E14 5HP
HSBC Bank plc 
60 Queen Victoria Street
London, EC4N 4TR 
Company brokers
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London, EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
Public relations
FTI Consulting Limited
200 Aldersgate
Aldersgate Street
London, EC1A 4HD
Website
www.ite-exhibitions.com 
Directors, advisors and other information  ITE Group plc 
105 Salusbury Road
London
NW6 6RG
UK
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
