 2015 Annual Report and Accounts James Fisher and Sons plc is a leading service provider to all 
sectors of the global marine industry and a specialist supplier of 
engineering services to the energy industry.
Strategic report
Highlights  01
Chairman’s statement  02
Chief Executive’s review  04
Financial review  08
Principal risks and uncertainties 10
Key performance indicators 12
Group at a glance   13
Business model and strategy 14
Sector review  16
Corporate responsibility  20
Governance
Board of Directors  24
Corporate governance report  25
Audit Committee report 30
Directors’ remuneration report 33
Directors’ report  46
Independent auditor’s report  52
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 55
Consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income  55
Consolidated and Company statement   
of ﬁnancial position   56
Consolidated and Company    
cash ﬂow statement  57
Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity  58
Company statement of changes   
in equity  58
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 59
Group ﬁnancial record  96
Subsidiaries and associated   
undertakings 97
Notice of Annual General Meeting 99
Investor information   105
We employ 2,800 people across 19 countries. Our companies and services have a focus 
on marine related activities which operate in potentially demanding environments where 
specialist skills are rewarded. Through innovation and acquisition we have developed market 
leading businesses through our four divisions: Marine Support, Offshore Oil, Specialist 
Technical and Tankships.
Contents Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2
James Fisher and Sons plc
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1
Highlights
2015 2014
Revenue £437.9m £444.8m
Underlying proﬁt before tax* £41.2m £46.9m
Underlying diluted earnings per share* 68.5p 74.0p
Dividend per share 23.8p 22.0p
Cash conversion 95% 109%
Statutory proﬁt before tax £46.2m £49.2m
Statutory diluted earnings per share 79.2p 79.2p
* James Fisher and Sons plc uses alternative performance measures as key ﬁnancial indicators to assess the underlying performance of 
the Group. These include underlying operating proﬁt, underlying proﬁt before tax and underlying earnings per share as set out in note 2 on 
page 59. The narrative in the Annual Report and Accounts is based on these alternative performance measures.
 Specialist Technical, Marine Support and Tankships combined underlying 
operating proﬁt up 25%;
 Sharp decline in activity in Offshore Oil mitigated by swift cost reduction 
actions; gross margins held up well;
 Cash conversion strong at 95%;
 Full year dividend increased 8% to 23.8p per share;
 Galloper Windfarm contract secured worth in excess of £25m.
© James Faulk RSwN 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that James Fisher and Sons plc 
ﬁnished 2015 strongly with an underlying proﬁt before tax 
for the year of £41.2m (2014: £46.9m), making for a much 
improved second half. While this represents a 12% decline 
compared with 2014, the result demonstrates the resilience of 
the Group’ s business model in challenging times. The breadth 
of James Fisher’ s activities across the marine sector meant 
that three of our four divisions continued to trade well, partially 
mitigating the sharp down-turn in our Offshore Oil division. 
Group revenue for the year was marginally lower at £437.9m 
(2014: £444.8m). Underlying diluted earnings were 68.5 
pence per share, a decrease of 7% compared with 2014.
Our Marine Support and Tankships divisions showed strong 
proﬁt growth. Marine Support’s performance reﬂected 
increased project revenues which were phased towards 
the second half as well as the initial contributions from 
businesses acquired earlier in the year. Tankships built 
further on its strong track record of recent years with costs 
reduced and utilisation improved. Specialist Technical 
delivered another strong result broadly in line with last year, 
making good progress with the delivery of its order book.
Our Offshore Oil businesses faced progressive oil and 
gas industry expenditure cut-backs as the year wore on 
with inspection and maintenance work being deferred, 
particularly in Norway. This has required management to 
take tough action to reduce costs and, sadly, staff numbers. 
The division is now on a ﬁrmer footing going forward 
assuming at least some stabilisation of demand. 
The Group’s cash conversion continued to be strong at 
95% with year-end balance sheet gearing remaining at a 
conservative 43% despite acquisition expenditure of £27.2m 
in the year and an increase in project related working capital.
The resilience of the Group’s performance has led the Board 
to propose an increase in the ﬁnal dividend to 16.0 pence 
per share compared with 14.9 pence last year, making a 
total for the year of 23.8 pence per share, an increase of 
over 8% compared with 2014. 
Strategy
The continued strong performance of the majority of the 
Group’s businesses together with the strength of its balance 
sheet has enabled James Fisher to maintain its strategic 
course. The Group remains focused on investing in niche 
businesses which operate in demanding environments 
where their strong marine service and specialist engineering 
skills are valued and rewarded. By a combination of organic 
investment and targeted bolt-on acquisitions, these 
companies have grown both in terms of service capability 
and international presence and have been integrated into 
a wider service offering for our customers. The success 
of this strategy is reﬂected not only in the proﬁt growth of 
recent years but also in the increased size of contracts being 
won and the growing strength of the Group’s international 
presence.
With the down-turn in Offshore Oil, the Board has given 
particular attention to our forward strategy this year. Overall, 
we believe that your Company remains well positioned to 
generate long-term growth. 
Our Marine Support businesses are global leaders in ship-
to-ship transfers and they have strengthened their project 
management capabilities both offshore and subsea. In 
recent years their worldwide network has grown signiﬁcantly 
with new bases in the Asia Paciﬁc region and in Brazil. The 
acquisition of Subtech in Southern Africa and increased 
investment in our Nigerian business were further steps 
forward in 2015. The division’s Subsea capabilities were 
boosted by the purchase of the mass-ﬂow excavator assets 
of X-Subsea and our development initiative in the offshore 
renewables sector was strengthened by the acquisition of 
Mojo Maritime in May. The recently announced offshore 
support service contract for the construction phase of the 
Galloper windfarm marks a signiﬁcant breakthrough in 
establishing James Fisher as an important service integrator 
to the offshore renewables sector.
“Underlying diluted earnings were 
7% lower at 68.5 pence per share. 
This demonstrates the resilience 
of the Group’s business model in 
challenging times, with a sharp 
down-turn in Offshore Oil being 
mitigated by the good performance 
of our other three divisions.”
Charles Rice, Chairman
Chairman’s statement Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Our Specialist Technical division is also well placed 
strategically. James Fisher Nuclear has been successful 
in becoming a recognised Tier 2 supplier to the nuclear 
decommissioning industry in the UK. Its growing reputation 
offers openings to overseas markets in the future. The 
company will also be able to provide services to the UK’s 
nuclear new-build sector once this moves forward. JFD is 
a world leader in hyperbaric and submarine rescue service 
provision to both the commercial and defence sectors. The 
company has beneﬁted in recent years from strong orders 
for saturation diving systems from the commercial sector. 
We reinforced our position in this ﬁeld with the acquisition 
of the National Hyperbaric Centre in Aberdeen in February. 
We expect orders in this division from the oil and gas 
sector to slow but prospects overall to remain strong due 
to increased demand for our defence related products 
and submarine rescue services. JFD has been successful 
in strengthening its position in Asia Paciﬁc and we would 
expect this region to grow further. In both James Fisher 
Nuclear and JFD, the Group has businesses with strong 
market positions and good growth prospects. As project 
based businesses, their proﬁts are inevitably ‘lumpy’ but 
this variability can more easily be absorbed by a Group with 
three other more broadly based divisions.
Our Tankships division has produced an excellent 
performance in recent years. It provides some hedge to 
our Offshore Oil activities in that its volumes beneﬁt as the 
price of oil falls. We remain focused on investing in the 
management and ﬂeet operational performance of this 
division to ensure that it remains a strong niche provider to 
the coastal shipping sector both now and in the future.
The Offshore Oil division has been a key contributor 
to the proﬁt growth of recent years. We have lived 
through previous cyclical down-turns in the oil and gas 
sector before, but the speed and depth of this cycle 
has been greater than we expected. That said, I believe 
that the Group entered this cycle in a strong position. 
We consciously decided against chasing over-priced 
acquisitions in this division in the past ensuring that we 
entered this tougher market with a strong balance sheet. 
Our businesses are predominately focused on niche 
services to the inspection and maintenance sector and are 
well placed to beneﬁt from a resumption in maintenance 
and development work which cannot be postponed 
indeﬁnitely. Tough action was taken during the past year to 
cut our cost base signiﬁcantly but we have been successful 
in retaining the experienced management teams which 
have helped to generate our past success. We are therefore 
conﬁdent that this division will bounce back and we remain 
committed to investing appropriately to strengthen further 
its niche market coverage.
Overall, the Board believes that each of our four divisions 
continues to have attractive prospects based on strong 
market positions. The strength of our balance sheet means 
that the Group is well placed both to meet the organic 
investment needs of all four divisions and to continue with 
incremental acquisitions designed to reinforce our market 
positioning and our international network. Longer term, 
with its growing presence in the nuclear and renewables 
industries as well as the oil and gas sectors, the Group is 
well able to adapt to changes in the global energy mix. 
The Board
Following the new appointments of Non-Executive Directors 
in recent years, there were no changes in the Board 
composition in 2015. During the year, an external board 
appraisal was carried out which concluded that the Board 
functions well as a unit and has a good mix of business 
experience to ensure that issues are examined from a broad 
range of perspectives. The documentation reviewed by the 
Board was considered to reﬂect an appropriate and good 
level of governance and process.
Staff 
James Fisher has continued to beneﬁt from a strong and 
stable management team both at Board level and in our 
operating companies. This has enabled the Group to 
adapt successfully to the new opportunities opening up in 
Marine Support and Specialist Technical and to deal with 
the increased scale and complexity of our international 
operations. In Offshore Oil, management and staff have 
had to face the tough task of restructuring our businesses 
to meet the down-turn in the oil and gas sector which has 
involved substantial redundancies. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all employees for their hard work and 
dedication to the continued success of the James Fisher 
Group.
Outlook
The strong ﬁnish to 2015 and the recently announced 
award of the Galloper windfarm contract in Marine Support 
means that we start 2016 on a ﬁrmer footing. This contract 
will gain momentum later this year leading to a pronounced 
weighting of earnings to the second half. It is too early to be 
certain that our Offshore Oil businesses have bottomed out, 
but we may reasonably expect that the impact of continued 
adverse market conditions on this division’s earnings is likely 
to be limited following the restructuring work undertaken 
last year. Our Marine Support division looks well placed to 
deliver growth and Tankships continues to trade well at the 
levels seen last year. Prospects in our Specialist Technical 
businesses are strong but are linked to the timing of speciﬁc 
contract signings. Subject to conﬁrmation of these, we 
remain positive for the year ahead and conﬁdent of the 
Group’s potential to provide good growth and value for our 
shareholders in the future. 
Charles Rice
1 March 2016 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chief Executive’s review
Results
Operating proﬁt in the Offshore Oil division was sharply 
down reﬂecting the challenging market conditions, as 
maintenance expenditure was severely cut with work 
deferred as a result of the fall in global oil prices. Our other 
three divisions, Specialist Technical, Marine Support and 
Tankships performed strongly, increasing their combined 
underlying operating proﬁt by 25%. The Group’s underlying 
operating margin was 10.4% (2014: 11.6%) and underlying 
earnings per share was 68.5p (2014: 74.0p). The degree to 
which the oil and gas sector postponed maintenance and 
modiﬁcation work was greater than had been anticipated 
or had been experienced in previous cycles. Whilst activity 
levels were severely reduced, gross margins were largely 
sustained reﬂecting the specialist nature of our niche 
services. 
Business model and strategy
The Group’s strategy over the past decade has been to 
grow its marine services through organic growth from 
its niche businesses supplemented by selective bolt-on 
acquisitions to broaden our service and product offering. 
The Group leverages its marine skills to the global market 
focussing on less mature markets. Our businesses are 
entrepreneurially led, with market leading positions through 
operational excellence, delivering operating margins in 
excess of 10%, generating cash and producing a return on 
capital employed in excess of 15%. 
Our strategic goal is to deliver long-term growth in underlying 
earnings per share and progressive dividend growth. The 
compound annual growth rate over the last ten years in 
underlying earnings per share is 12% and the compound 
growth in dividends over the same period is 11%.
“25% combined growth in 
underlying operating proﬁt in 
our Specialist Technical, Marine 
Support and Tankships divisions 
shows the strength of the Group 
and the breadth of sectors in 
which our services are utilised.”
Nick Henry, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Principal corporate objectives
Total annual dividend per share (p)
 Underlying earnings per share (p)
 
Compound annual growth over last ten years of 12%
Deliver progressive long-term growth in 
underlying earnings per share
Deliver progressive dividend growth
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
68.5
74.0
65.6
55.1
48.4
41.9
37.0
35.4
32.6
28.1
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
23.8
22.0
20.0
17.7
16.1
14.7
13.6
13.0
11.4
10.0
Chief Executive’s review Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
The Group provides an extensive range of services to a 
broad range of industries. Our customers are predominantly 
large multinational corporations and government bodies. No 
customer amounts to more than 7% of Group revenue. 
During 2015 the Group completed 5 acquisitions. 
 In February, the National Hyperbaric Centre in 
Aberdeen was acquired for £3.5m. This broadens the 
Group’s offering in hyperbaric testing and consolidates 
JFD’s market leading position in the design, 
manufacture, testing and operation of hyperbaric 
reception facilities. 
 In March, Subtech was acquired for an initial 
consideration of £3.3m. Subtech is based in Durban, 
South Africa with operations in Namibia, Mozambique, 
Tanzania and South Africa. The business provides a 
range of marine services and is well positioned in sub-
saharan Africa for potential growth as offshore projects 
are developed in the future.
 In May, Mojo Maritime was acquired for £3.2m. 
Mojo have considerable experience and reputation 
within the offshore renewables sector providing 
project management, engineering and consultancy 
services. Mojo will be integrated into James Fisher 
Marine Services, the process of which has already 
commenced.
 In May the assets of X-Subsea were acquired for 
£14.8m. X-Subsea had gone into administration and 
were one of the competitors of James Fisher Subsea 
Excavation. This acquisition means we become a 
leading global operator of such specialist subsea tools 
which are used in the oil and gas and telecoms sectors 
and increasingly in the offshore renewables markets.
 A small nuclear sources distributor was acquired in 
January 2015 which has been integrated into James 
Fisher Nuclear.
From an operational perspective, the Group merged 
Testconsult, which was acquired in 2014 with Strainstall 
Monitoring to create James Fisher Testing Services to 
streamline the marketing of our load monitoring, bridge 
monitoring and testing services to the marine and 
construction sectors. James Fisher Subsea Services was 
created to pull together our diving and remotely operated 
vessel inspection businesses.
James Fisher 
Subsea Excavation
Following the acquisition of the assets of 
X-Subsea in May 2015, our existing mass-
ﬂow excavation tools were merged to create 
James Fisher Subsea Excavation (JFSE). 
Our extensive ﬂeet of specialised excavation, 
trenching and dredging tools is employed 
in subsea operations in the oil and gas, 
telecoms and renewable energy sectors. Our 
tools are used in challenging environments 
to prevent damage to pipelines, cables, 
structures and the environment.
In September 2015, JFSE supplied its 
patented T4000 and Twin R2000 mass-ﬂow 
excavation tools to trench and backﬁll two 
500m lengths of a 16” pipeline lying in soft 
silty clay in the Manifa ﬁeld offshore Saudi Arabia. The pipelines crossed through a 300m wide shipping channel. 
JFSE was required to provide as narrow a trench as possible, with a minimum trenching depth of 1.5m top of 
pipe. The project was completed on time and to the customer’s satisfaction well within the estimated number of 
operational hours.  6 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chief Executive’s review continued
Divisional performance
Revenue 
£m
Underlying 
operating proﬁt 
£m
Underlying operating 
margin 
%
Underlying return on 
capital employed 
%
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Marine Support 193.0 164.2 19.4 14.2 10.0 8.6 14.8 15.1
Offshore Oil 63.0 104.9 7.4 22.4 11.7 21.4 6.2 18.0
Specialist Technical 129.4 121.4 13.9 13.3 10.7 11.0 20.9 23.5
Tankships 52.5 54.3 7.1 4.7 13.5 8.7 28.5 19.9
Common Costs – – (2.2) (3.1) – – – –
437.9 444.8 45.6 51.5 10.4 11.6 13.5 16.5
Marine Support
Revenue in Marine Support increased by 18% in the year 
mainly due to businesses acquired and favourable currency 
movements. After excluding these and the corvette vessel 
management contract which ended in 2014, underlying 
revenue growth was 3% in the year. Underlying operating 
proﬁt increased by 37% to £19.4m with a strong second half 
as businesses acquired in the ﬁrst half contributed and due 
to projects falling into the latter part of the year. Excluding the 
effect of currency movements and businesses acquired, the 
organic growth in underlying operating proﬁt was 7%. 
Ship-to-ship transfers of hydrocarbons increased by 8% in 
volume terms. Despite the backdrop of declining oil prices 
in 2015, underlying revenue increased by around 20% 
compared to prior year. The markets in South East Asia 
and Middle East performed particularly well. Six transfers of 
liqueﬁed natural gas were also completed and we remain 
well positioned for future growth in the medium-term in this 
emerging sector.
Our contract in Angola for mooring and diving services 
performed well in 2015 but will cease early in 2016 reﬂecting 
the different market conditions and customer operational re-
structuring. We are currently in discussions with our customer 
for a managed handover of those operations.
Good progress was achieved in our renewables business 
as we successfully completed the ﬁrst phase of the project 
for Meygen to install a tidal array in the Firth of Forth. Our 
acquisition of Mojo Maritime in May 2015 broadened 
our expertise and experience in tidal and offshore wind 
energy. We continued to provide services to the Offshore 
Transmission (OFTO) operators in 2015.
The recent announcement of the contract with RWE to 
provide an integrated range of marine services to the 
Galloper windfarm project demonstrates the market 
potential in this sector. Worth in excess of £25.0m, the 
contract will commence in the second quarter of 2016 and 
will progressively ramp up during the year and into 2017. 
The project will also utilise our Offshore Wind Management 
System which has been developed as an operational portal 
for the renewables industry. 
Our acquisition of the assets of X-Subsea in May further 
expanded our mass-ﬂow excavation business and we now 
have bases in key locations in the UK, North America, the 
Middle East and Singapore. This business performed well in 
the second half winning pipeline and cable burial and retrieval 
projects in the renewables and oil and gas sectors.
Testconsult, which was acquired in 2014, was merged during 
the year with Strainstall Monitoring to form James Fisher 
Testing Services (JFTS). JFTS saw continued growth in the 
Middle East and Malaysia. In the UK our Bridgewatch
®
 data 
monitoring and asset management system was installed 
onto the new Forth Bridge during 2015 which will provide 
real-time information on the performance of the crossing over 
its lifetime. When the current Forth Bridge was closed after 
a crack was discovered in December 2015, JFTS rapidly 
deployed Bridgewatch
®
 to provide information of the effects 
of wind and trafﬁc loading on the structure. This information 
helped the decision to re-open the bridge two weeks earlier 
than planned.
Offshore Oil
Offshore Oil revenue was 40% lower as inspection, repair 
and maintenance work was deferred more than expected 
following the sharp decline in oil prices. The scale of the 
reduction in maintenance activity and the length of the lull 
in operations were greater than had been experienced 
in previous cycles. The Norwegian market, which had 
previously represented a quarter of the divisional revenue, 
was the most affected with a 37% reduction in revenue. The 
subsea market held up better owing to the longer lead time 
of subsea projects but fewer projects were initiated during 
2015 which will affect 2016. 
The degree of impact varied. Activity in the Middle East, Asia 
and Brazil were less affected, whereas West Africa saw a 
far greater decline in activity. The UK North Sea saw sharp 
declines later in the year but this sector represented a small 
proportion of the division.
Despite the tough market conditions, gross margins held up 
well and were only slightly below prior year. This reﬂects the 
specialist nature of our niche services. We took swift action  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Operational 
Excellence Award
James Fisher Everard (JFE) has been 
transporting clean petroleum products around 
the UK and Irish coasts successfully for over 
50 years. Its ﬂeet of 17 vessels carry fuels 
such as petrol, diesel, kerosene and gasoil 
from reﬁneries and terminals to coastal 
storage facilities in primarily 4,000 metric 
ton (mt) parcels. For many remote locations 
the JFE ships are the only reliable and cost 
effective means of supply such as some of the Scottish Islands and Channel Islands.
Safety and the environment are major concerns to JFE and in 2015 we transported around 3.3 million mt of product 
on over 900 voyages with no Lost Time Injuries to our crew and no spillage of product to the environment. 
Coastal shipping is a tough and unrelenting business which is strictly regulated. JFE operates well beyond the 
required safety standards with high quality vessels and very experienced ofﬁcers. Their excellent safety record 
was marked in 2015 when JFE won the Operational Excellence Award at the annual Tanker Shipping and Trade 
Conference in London. The Award acknowledged the company’s commitment to operational excellence and 
continuous improvement, whilst operating in the challenging coastal waters in North West Europe.
to reduce costs and have reduced headcount by 25% since 
December 2014. Redundancy costs of £1.2m were incurred 
in the year and on-going annual costs have been reduced by 
£3.3m.
2014 had seen one-off product sales of £12.4m by Scantech 
Offshore. If this is excluded, divisional revenue was 28% 
lower. Whilst underlying operating proﬁt reduced by £15.0m 
in the year, the underlying operating margin remained above 
the Group’s benchmark at 11.7% (2014: 21.4%).
Specialist Technical
Revenue grew by 7% and underlying operating proﬁt by 5% 
in Specialist Technical as our diving equipment, defence and 
nuclear decommissioning businesses delivered well against a 
strong order book. 
JFD made good progress on a 24 man saturation diving 
system which will be installed onto a dive support vessel in 
2016 to service Northern Europe and on an 18 man system 
to be installed on a vessel being built in Singapore and which 
will be completed in Baku, Azerbaijan in 2017. A third smaller 
system was commenced in the latter part of the year. Our 
service contracts to provide submarine rescue services for 
the UK, Singapore and Australia continued to perform well.
Delays in the procurement processes for contracts in the 
defence sector dampened growth in 2015 but the company 
remains well placed for further contract awards in 2016 
which will drive future growth.
In February 2015 the acquisition of the National Hyberbaric 
Centre (NHC) in Aberdeen was completed for an initial cash 
consideration of £3.5m. NHC provide hyperbaric reception, 
testing and training services to the subsea industry and this 
further consolidates our industry leading position to the global 
market. 
Our Nuclear business increased revenue by 13% with strong 
growth in decommissioning. This included the ﬁrst phase of a 
purpose built nuclear waste store for Sellaﬁeld. Revenues for 
non-destructive testing services were below the previous year 
as a result of a reduction in workﬂow from the Magnox plants 
and our aerospace customers. The company has begun 
to see revenue from projects outside of the UK and has 
invested in business development for international markets. 
The business has continued to broaden the size and scope 
of projects that it bids for and is well placed for further growth 
in 2016. A small nuclear sources distributor was acquired in 
early 2015 for £2.2m which has performed well following its 
integration into the division. 
Tankships
On 3% lower revenue, our Tankships division increased 
proﬁts by 51% as vessel utilisation increased and operating 
costs were reduced compared to prior year. Volume of 
product transported was slightly higher and on average 
these cargoes were transported over longer distances which 
improved vessel utilisation. The number of vessels in the 
ﬂeet was unchanged in the year and we continued to beneﬁt 
from a contract for two of our vessels which is expected to 
continue through the ﬁrst half of 2016. 
Operating costs beneﬁted from the renegotiation of charter 
rates for vessels introduced to the ﬂeet in 2004/2005. The 
company continues to have an excellent operational safety 
record, which is a credit to all our ofﬁcers and crews at 
sea and to the support team ashore. During the year the 
company was awarded the Operational Excellence Award at 
the annual Tanker Shipping and Trade Conference.
Volumes of clean petroleum product transported through our 
Plymouth port were 3% higher than 2014. 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
The ﬁnancial results in 2015 reﬂected challenging conditions in 
Offshore Oil markets but good progress was achieved in our 
other divisions. As anticipated, underlying operating proﬁt in 
the second half was slightly below 2014 and 28% higher than 
in the ﬁrst half of 2015. For the year, underlying operating proﬁt 
at Offshore Oil was reduced by £15.0m compared to previous 
year but increases in all of the other divisions of £9.1m limited 
the shortfall in the Group’s underlying result against 2014 to 
£5.9m.
Revenue for the year was 2% lower than 2014 at £437.9m 
(2014: £444.8m). In 2014, Offshore Oil, which primarily hires 
equipment and engineers into the inspection and maintenance 
market, sold equipment into the South American market for 
£12.4m which did not recur in 2015. The marine support 
contract to manage three Corvette warships, which contributed 
revenue of £8.5m in 2014, ceased when the vessels were sold 
to the Indonesian Navy. Underlying revenue in Offshore Oil was 
28% lower than in 2014 which was partly offset by the other 
businesses increasing by 2%. Businesses acquired added 
£30.4m to revenue in the year and favourable currency rates 
added a further £6.4m.
The Group’s underlying operating margin reduced from 11.6% 
to 10.4% due to the proﬁt reduction in Offshore Oil. Each of our 
four divisions reported an underlying operating margin in excess 
of 10% in the year. 
The Group is exposed to ﬂuctuations in exchange rates, 
primarily in respect of US Dollar cash ﬂows and the translation 
of business results from Norwegian Kroner to UK Sterling. The 
table below sets out average exchange rates in 2015 and 2014:
A signiﬁcant proportion of revenue is invoiced in US Dollars 
and the Group beneﬁts from the US Dollar strengthening  
against UK Sterling and conversely a weaker US Dollar has an 
adverse impact. Forward currency contracts are entered into 
to mitigate the risk of an adverse impact on proﬁts for a portion 
of expected US Dollar net cash ﬂows. The Group does not 
hedge translation exposure where the local business records 
its transaction in local currency. The net impact of changes 
in currency rates compared to 2014, after forward contract 
hedging, was to increase underlying operating proﬁt by £3.2m. 
Underlying proﬁt before taxation and net 
ﬁnance charges
Net ﬁnance charges comprise interest payable and similar 
charges on the Group’s borrowings, notional interest on 
legacy deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes and non-cash interest 
in unwinding the discount on contingent consideration for 
businesses acquired. The total net ﬁnance charge for the 
year was £0.4m lower than previous year at £4.3m (2014: 
£4.7m). Interest payable on bank borrowings was £0.1m 
higher as increased borrowings offset a reduced overall cost 
of borrowing. Notional pension interest was £0.2m less than 
prior year due to a lower net deﬁcit at the start of the year and 
the unwinding of the discount on contingent consideration was 
£0.3m lower following a provision reduction in 2014. Underlying 
proﬁt before taxation was 12% lower at £41.2m (2014: 
£46.9m).
Taxation
The effective tax rate on underlying proﬁt before tax was 14.3% 
(2014: 19.2%) The reduction compared to last year is due to 
tonnage tax relief on the proﬁts of its Tankships operation which 
were 16.2% (2014: 9.1%) of underlying operating proﬁt in 2015. 
Over provisions in prior years have been reduced as estimates 
of cash tax payable were revised downwards due to greater 
certainty particularly with regards to overseas jurisdictions. This 
reduced the effective tax rate by three percentage points. In 
addition, UK corporation tax rates reduced by 1.25 percentage 
points compared to 2014.
The Group’s tax policy has been approved by the Board and 
shared with the UK tax authorities. Whilst the Group has a duty 
to shareholders to seek to minimise its tax burden, its tax policy 
is to do so in a manner which is consistent with its commercial 
objectives, meets its legal obligations and its code of ethics. We 
aim to manage our tax affairs in a responsible and transparent 
manner and with regard for the intention of the legislation rather 
than just the wording itself.
Financial review
Financial review
Stuart Kilpatrick, Group Finance Director
2015 2014 % change
US Dollar 1.53 1.65 (7)%
Norwegian Kroner 12.35 10.44 +18%
444.8 
437.9 
12.4 
8.5 
29.0 
6.2
30.4 
6.4
2014 Offshore Oil
equipment 
sales
Corvettes Offshore Oil Growth 
from other 
divisions
Acquisitions Currency 2015
Revenue bridge Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Separately disclosed items
The Directors’ consider that the alternative performance 
measures described in note 2 assist an understanding of the 
underlying trading performance of the businesses. These 
measures exclude separately disclosed items which comprise 
gains or losses on the sale of businesses, material impairments 
and acquisition related charges and income and are set out 
below:
Costs incurred on acquiring businesses increased due to more 
businesses being acquired in 2015 and greater complexity on 
overseas acquisitions. Contingent consideration was provided 
on the acquisition of Subtech in March 2015 with an element 
based on 2015 earnings and an earn-out for the two year 
period ending 31 December 2017. The provision was adjusted 
at 31 December 2015 resulting in a credit to the income 
statement of £5.0m as the 2015 target was not achieved. A 
further £3.5m relates to Divex, which was acquired in 2013, 
where some speciﬁc saturation diving system orders have 
fallen outside of the qualifying period.
The Group disposed of two small businesses in the year with 
revenue of £1.2m, resulting in a book loss of £1.0m. 
Earnings per share and dividends
Underlying diluted earnings per share decreased by 7% to 
68.5p per share (2014: 74.0p) which was less than the change 
in underlying proﬁt before taxation due to favourable variances 
on net ﬁnance expense and taxation. Diluted earnings per 
share after separately disclosed items was unchanged at 79.2p 
per share (2014: 79.2p).
The Board are recommending an 8% increase to the total 
dividend for the year to 23.8p per share (2014: 22.0p). A ﬁnal 
dividend of 16.0p per share (2014: 14.9p) will be paid, subject 
to approval at the Annual General Meeting, on 6 May 2016 to 
shareholders on the register on 8 April 2016. Dividend cover 
based on the ratio of underlying earnings per share divided by 
the dividend per share was 2.9 times (2014: 3.4 times).
Cash ﬂow and borrowings
Underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) decreased by 5% due to lower earnings 
in Offshore Oil. The Group’s cash conversion, the ratio of 
underlying operating cash to underlying operating proﬁt was 
95% (2014: 109%). The working capital outﬂow of £22.7m 
(2014: £11.9m) was adversely impacted by signiﬁcant project 
work spanning the year end and receipts from a major 
customer being deferred into 2016.
Net cash capital expenditure in the year was £20.2m (2014: 
£28.6m) reﬂecting reduced spend in the Offshore Oil division 
but continued investment for growth in Specialist Technical 
and Marine Support. Cash outﬂows on businesses acquired 
amounted to £27.2m as the Group invested in ﬁve businesses 
to bolt-on to its existing marine service activities.
Net borrowings increased in the year by £31.5m to £93.8m 
(2014: £62.3m) as a result of the businesses acquired and the 
working capital outﬂow. At 31 December 2015, the ratio of net 
borrowings (including guarantees) to underlying EBITDA was 
1.4 times (2014: 1.0 times) and the Group had £67.4m (2014: 
£81.4m) of undrawn committed banking facilities. Net gearing, 
the ratio of net debt to equity, was 43% (2014: 31%). 
Pensions
As previously ﬂagged, the trustees of an industry-wide 
Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund (MNRPF) have been 
given permission by the High Court to extend the requirement 
for deﬁcit contributions beyond current employers to both 
current and past employers. During 2015, the trustees notiﬁed 
employers of their potential liability and related payment 
plan proposals. The Group has recognised through the 
Consolidated Statement of Other Income a liability of £8.6m as 
at 31 December 2015 and is in discussion with the trustees to 
ﬁnalise contribution arrangements. The Group is also liable for 
contributions to a similar industry-wide scheme, the Merchant 
Navy Ofﬁcers Pension Fund (MNOPF) and following its triennial 
valuation as at March 2015, no additional contributions over 
the current payment plan were requested by the trustees. 
During the year, the Group made cash contributions to these 
schemes and its own shore staff scheme of £3.5m (2014: 
£4.7m). Total deﬁned beneﬁt net liabilities were £27.0m (2014: 
£21.8m) reﬂecting the addition of the MNRPF liability less cash 
contributions in the year. 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Acquisition related (charges) and income:
Costs incurred on acquiring 
businesses
(1.3) (0.7)
Amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets
(1.2) (1.0)
Adjustments to contingent 
consideration provisions
8.5 4.1 
Loss on disposal of businesses (1.0) –   
5.0 2.4 
Summary cash ﬂow
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Underlying operating proﬁt 45.6 51.5 
Depreciation & amortisation 23.2 21.1 
Underlying ebitda 68.8 72.6 
Working capital (22.7) (11.9)
Pension/other (2.7) (3.9)
Operating cash ﬂow 43.4 56.8 
Interest & tax (12.2) (9.1)
Capital expenditure (20.2) (28.6)
Acquisitions (27.2) (12.2)
Dividends (11.4) (10.3)
Purchase of ESOT shares/other (3.9) (4.6)
Net outﬂow (31.5) (8.0)
Net borrowings at start of period (62.3) (54.3)
Net borrowings at end of period (93.8) (62.3) 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group’s risk management framework
The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of 
risk in the Group. Our internal control and risk management 
framework is regularly monitored and reviewed by the Board 
and the Audit Committee and comprises a series of policies, 
processes, procedures and organisational structures which 
are designed to ensure that the level of risk to which the Group 
is exposed is consistent with the Board’s risk appetite and the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The Board determines the Group’s policies on risk, appetite 
for risk and levels of risk tolerance and speciﬁcally approves: 
risk management policies and plans; signiﬁcant insurance 
and/or legal claims and/or settlements; major acquisitions, 
disposals and capital expenditures; and the Group budget, 
forecast and three year plan. The Board has put in place a 
documented organisational structure with strictly deﬁned 
limits of authority from the Board to operating units that 
have been communicated throughout the businesses and 
are well understood by the Executive Directors, the central 
management team, functional and business leaders who have 
delegated authority and speciﬁc responsibility for ensuring 
compliance with and implementing policies at corporate, 
divisional and business unit level. Central functions and 
operating units are each required to operate within this control 
environment and in accordance with the Group’s established 
policies and procedures which include ethical, anti-bribery 
and corruption, treasury, employment, health and safety and 
environmental policies and procedures. 
The Group’s trading companies are supported by centralised 
ﬁnance, treasury, taxation, internal audit, legal and company 
secretarial, human resource and payroll and information 
systems functions: the functional heads report to a nominated 
Executive Director. The Board retains an oversight role, 
receives regular reports on key issues and has a schedule of 
matters speciﬁcally reserved to it for decision thus ensuring 
that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate 
strategic, investment, ﬁnancial, organisational and compliance 
issues. This schedule is subject to review by the Board on an 
annual basis.
Risk Management Systems
The key features of the Group’s risk management systems are 
as follows:
 Each trading business is required to maintain an up to 
date risk register, which is reviewed at each business 
board meeting, identiﬁes key risks and assesses the 
likelihood and impact of each risk before and after 
mitigation measures are taken. 
 On an annual basis the risk registers are submitted to 
the Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit for 
analysis. This analysis is considered by the Board when 
determining the Group’s principal risks and the areas of 
internal audit focus for the forthcoming period.
 The trading company managing directors complete a risk 
management review questionnaire on an annual basis 
which is a self-assessment of operational controls and 
compliance with laws and regulations relating to their 
business. This enables business managers to identify 
risks and focus on mitigating strategies. The reviews are 
submitted to the Company Secretary for analysis and 
reporting to the Board.
 The Group Risk Committee meets quarterly and is 
chaired by the CEO with representation from functional 
heads including ﬁnance, human resources, legal and 
company secretarial, information services, insurance and 
internal audit. The minutes of the Risk Committee are 
reported to the Board.  
Business Reporting and Performance 
Reviews
The Group operates an annual budgeting process and 
produces quarterly forecasts which are reviewed and 
approved by the Board. Monthly results are compared with 
budget and prior year and individual business reviews are 
conducted quarterly which include a review of ﬁnancial results. 
The businesses also compile a three year strategic plan.
The Executive Directors hold quarterly board meetings with 
each business units to discuss strategy, ﬁnancial results and 
forecasts, business needs and the management of risks facing 
the business. 
Identifying and Monitoring Material Risks
Material risks are identiﬁed and monitored as follows:
 A risk evaluation process commences in the operating 
companies with an annual exercise to identify the 
signiﬁcant operational and ﬁnancial risks facing the 
business. This is supported by a self-assessment 
internal control review questionnaire completed by each 
operating company and submitted to the Group Head 
of Internal Audit. This process is robust and challenging, 
ensures that risks are identiﬁed and that management 
have adequate internal control systems in place to report 
any weaknesses that require management attention. 
The results of the analysis are utilised to determine future 
areas of internal audit focus.
 A ‘risk score’ is determined for each risk based on the 
likelihood of each identiﬁed risk arising and the potential 
impact on the business of an adverse outcome. The risk 
score before and after mitigation is reviewed at business 
and Group level.
 The risk assessments are summarised and presented to 
the Board who evaluate the principal risks of the Group 
by reference to the strategy and operating business 
environment.
Principal risks and uncertainties Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties
The most signiﬁcant risks that the Board considers may affect our business based on the risk evaluation process described 
above are listed below. These risks are similar to last year except for the addition of cyber-security. The Group’s decentralised 
business model and geographical spread helps to mitigate the impact of each principal risk.
Risk description and potential impact Management and mitigation
Project Delivery
As the Group grows, wins large contracts and operates in more 
geographies, the failure to deliver a major contract on time, within budget 
or in accordance with its terms or customer requirements could have 
potentially signiﬁcant adverse ﬁnancial and reputational consequences and 
could potentially result in litigation.
The Group has established processes for contract reviews and utilises professional expertise to minimise 
risk in contract negotiation. All major contracts are referred to the Board for approval and limits of 
authority are designed to ensure that contracts are reviewed and approved at appropriate levels prior 
to commitment. Major tenders and contracts are subject to on-going review at levels and frequencies 
appropriate to performance and potential risks.
Recruitment and retention of key staff
James Fisher has strong and experienced management teams in its 
operational businesses and depends on the skills, experience and 
competence of all of its people to drive the business forward in established 
and new markets. The Group’s success in delivering its strategic objectives 
depends on recruiting and retaining the right people in all areas of our 
business and planning succession in key leadership positions. The failure to 
attract, retain and develop personnel of the requisite calibre could have an 
adverse impact on the business.
Our strategy to attract and retain talent includes graduate recruitment, identifying and developing future 
leaders, regular appraisals, formal and informal training plans, succession planning, and appropriate 
remuneration incentives including the extension of share schemes to key individuals. We aim to develop 
talent from within. Succession and talent development is regularly discussed at Board and trading 
company level. There are several management development programmes in place for individuals who 
have been identiﬁed as potential senior managers. These programmes are deﬁned to help develop and 
grow the capabilities and behaviours required of senior managers so that we have potential successors 
for key business roles. These strategies are designed to retain and motivate individuals and to ensure their 
commitment to the success of the business.
Reputational risk from operations
The Group’s success is dependent on conducting its business safely and in 
accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. Our businesses are 
reliant on ensuring that a good reputation is maintained with their customers. 
An adverse operational incident would potentially damage the Group 
ﬁnancially and commercially and the impact would be heightened if it failed 
to react promptly or deal with it effectively.
The Group places a particular emphasis on the health, safety and security of its operations which 
are continually monitored and reported to the Board. We have policies and processes to safely and 
compliantly manage our operations, to protect our employees and others and to react appropriately to 
operational incidents.
Financial
The Group is exposed to a variety of ﬁnancial risks which could adversely 
affect the ﬁnancial performance of the Company. The risks include interest 
rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
An increase in interest rates or change in exchange rates or credit restriction 
would have a ﬁnancial impact.
The Group’s centralised ﬁnance function oversees all key strategic ﬁnance matters and is responsible for 
treasury, tax, foreign exchange and funding requirements. This includes the day to day management of 
the Group’s liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. 
The Group maintains relationships with a small key group of banks and reviews its funding mix and 
requirements at each Board meeting. The Board discusses macro-economic issues and their potential 
impact on each of these risks. 
 Forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are entered into to mitigate the risks of adverse 
currency or interest rate movements. The Group enters into bilateral facilities to spread its maturity proﬁle 
and aims to maximise the term of its revolving credit facilities.
Energy markets
The Group has signiﬁcant operations in the oil and gas sector and business 
operations in other energy sectors such as nuclear and renewables.
A marked fall in oil and gas prices leads to reduced investment in this market 
and this can affect demand for the Group’s products and services and 
impact ﬁnancial performance.
The Group has exposure across the energy sector and to a broad range of end markets and differing 
geographies. This together with the maintenance of close relationships with key customers and suppliers 
helps to mitigate the potential impact of market risks in the energy sector.
Speciﬁcally with regard to the oil and gas sector, the Group has limited exposure to the exploration phase 
and seeks longer term contracts for inspection, repair and maintenance work.
Operations in emerging markets
The Group has increasing activities in overseas emerging markets and key 
growth economies which may be in association with local shareholders.
This together with legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and 
exchange controls all has the potential for increasing the Group’s ﬁnancial 
and governance risk exposure. Any signiﬁcant failure to comply with laws or 
regulations could lead to liabilities and penalties.
The structure of and reporting lines for our overseas operations and the relations with third parties are 
continually reviewed as businesses develop to ensure an appropriate form of command and control is 
maintained, dependent on the particular operating environment and the nature and size of the business. 
The Group allocates additional resource to areas of higher risk and has enhanced its internal audit reviews 
for overseas businesses which are supported by external audit companies, where appropriate. 
Processes are in place which are designed to ensure that all businesses operate in accordance with 
legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls and the Group’s policies and 
applicable laws. 
Cyber security
Attempts to cause harm to the Group and its businesses via digital channels 
could lead to theft, fraud, interruption to business and damage to our 
reputation.
The Group’s IT systems are defended through the use of software protection and processes which 
are regularly reviewed and tested. These defences include gateways, ﬁrewalls and threat detectors. IT 
security information and updates are reviewed on a regular basis and accounting and banking controls 
are regularly appraised to ensure they are appropriate, up to date and comply with recommended 
practice. 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators
Underlying operating proﬁt (£m)
Underlying operating proﬁt is after adjusting for separately disclosed items 
and is the underlying proﬁt from operations before interest. The Group has 
increased underlying proﬁt by a compound rate of 10% over the last ﬁve years.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 36.1
41.2
46.6
51.5
45.6
Operating margin (%)
Operating margin is the ratio of underlying operating proﬁt to revenue.  
The Group’s operating margin in 2015 was 10.4% (2014: 11.6%).
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 11.7
11.3
11.3
11.6
10.4
Underlying proﬁt before tax (£m)
Underlying proﬁt before taxation is after interest and before separately disclosed 
items and related taxes. The compound annual growth rate in underlying proﬁt 
before taxation over the last ﬁve years is 11%.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 30.0
35.0
41.4
46.9
41.2
Return on operating capital employed (%)
Return on operating capital employed is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt 
divided by average operating capital employed. Operating capital employed 
comprises tangible ﬁxed assets, intangible ﬁxed assets, operating debtors net 
of creditors, less provisions. The Group’s post tax return on operating capital 
employed (note 2) was 13.5% (2014: 16.5%) at 31 December 2015.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 13.0
15.3
16.9
16.5
13.5
Cash conversion (%)
Cash conversion is deﬁned as the ratio of operating cash ﬂow to underlying 
operating proﬁt. Operating cash ﬂow is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt, 
adding back depreciation and amortisation and adjusting for net movements in 
working capital, pension payments and for the cash proﬁts of associates. The 
Group’s cash conversion was 95% in 2015 (2014: 109%).
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 105
132
134
109
95
Gearing (%)
Gearing is deﬁned as the ratio of net borrowings to net assets. The gearing of 
the Group at 31 December 2015 was 43% (2014: 31%). 
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 75
39
30
31
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Geographical locations
Main Ofﬁces
Other Ofﬁces
2015 2015 2015
UK
Europe
Middle East, Africa & 
the Americas
Asia Paciﬁc
Revenue by 
geography
Marine Support
Offshore Oil
Specialist Technical
Tankships
Marine Support
Offshore Oil
Specialist Technical
Tankships
Revenue by 
division
12%
44%
14%
30%
Proﬁt by 
division
15%
41%
16%
28%
20%
39%
 14%
27%
James Fisher and Sons plc
Group at a glance 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Business model and strategy
Business model 
Our business model is based on high quality niche businesses offering a 
range of marine services predominantly to large multinational customers and 
governments globally.
High quality marine services
Our businesses are linked together by a set of common 
marine service skills.
The Group provides solutions to customers through the 
provision of specialist equipment which is coupled with the 
detailed knowledge of our people, who are industry experts 
in their speciﬁc operations. The equipment is often designed 
and assembled by our people, who then operate it and 
provide through-life support to our customers.
Whilst our expertise originates in the UK, the Group 
provides these solutions and support internationally and 
focuses on servicing less mature markets.
Addressing such customer demands for quality and 
improvement requires the continuous development of 
innovative products to maintain market leadership in our 
areas of service.
Entrepreneurial culture
The Group has a decentralised management structure and 
encourages managers to be responsible for making timely 
decisions in the best interests of their businesses but with 
the back-up and resources of a larger group.
Our businesses have strong, experienced management 
teams that are rewarded according to the success of their 
businesses. An entrepreneurial culture means that decisions 
are made quickly and in response to changes in the market 
and the competitive environment.
Buy and build 
Acquisitions are a key part of our business model 
which broaden our product range and service portfolio, 
deepen our management pool and potentially extend 
our geographical coverage for our large multinational 
customers. James Fisher has acquired a number of owner 
managed companies with speciﬁc expertise. The Group’s 
global reach has facilitated the internationalisation of 
operations of these companies. Subsequent strong organic 
growth has been achieved through investment in people, 
working capital and equipment. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is to leverage marine skills in areas of specialist expertise 
to a global market.
The Group has a range of entrepreneurially led businesses which are market leaders in their speciﬁc operational niche. Our 
businesses operate in demanding environments where strong marine service and specialist engineering skills are valued 
and rewarded. We seek to provide solutions to our customers in the less mature and fast growing markets where they value 
trusted and quality suppliers. Our niche operations are integrated into a wider service offering to a diverse range of end 
markets.
Our focus on operational excellence requires that our businesses are:
 cash generative;
 have operating margins in excess of 10%; and
 provide returns on capital employed in excess of 15%.
Bolt-on acquisitions broaden the range of products and services that we provide. Our acquisition strategy has focused on 
niche businesses with a strong entrepreneurial culture which ﬁt well with our operating style and growth strategy. As a cash 
generative Group with a strong balance sheet, businesses are usually acquired using existing cash or borrowing resources. 
The businesses acquired have a good track record and typically need additional resources for their next growth phase. 
Where business bolt-on to existing businesses we seek to optimize shared back ofﬁce functions, purchasing opportunities 
and cross-selling within the Group.
Saturation Diving Systems 
In 2015, JFD designed and assembled an 18 man saturation diving 
system for Keppel Singmarine. The system will be installed on a new 
subsea construction vessel, the SCV Khankendi, which is being built at 
a shipyard in Baku, Azerbaijan. Once complete the SCV Khankendi is 
intended for the Shah Deniz Project in the Caspian Sea, some 30 miles 
south of Baku. 
JFD will oversee the installation of its equipment and support 
commissioning. Diving Bells and Hyperbaric Lifeboats are in build and due 
to be delivered in 2016. 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Sector review
Marine Support
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 112.7
150.4
171.3
164.2
193.0 19.4 14.8 2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 15.8 22.4
16.1 21.7
18.3 29.4
14.2 15.1
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating proﬁt (£m) Return on capital employed (%)
Our Marine Support businesses provide products, services and solutions to the global 
marine industry. Our services are supplied to a range of end market sectors including 
marine, oil and gas, ports, construction and renewables.
Sector
Our principal businesses
Operations End markets Locations
Fendercare Marine products and services, ship- 
to-ship transfers, diving services, 
marine consultancy
Marine, oil and gas, renewables, 
defence
UK, Singapore, Australia, UAE, Brazil, 
Nigeria
JF Testing 
Services
Products and services that measure 
and monitor structural stress, 
instrumentation and materials testing
Marine, oil and gas, renewables, civil 
and construction
UK, UAE, Qatar, Singapore, Malaysia
JF Marine 
Services
Integrated marine service contracts Marine, oil and gas and renewables UK
JF Subsea 
Excavation 
Mass-ﬂow excavation services Oil and gas and renewables UK, Mexico, Singapore
JF Subsea 
Services
Diving and marine services Renewables, oil and gas and marine UK
Subtech Marine services and diving Oil and gas, marine, construction South Africa, Mozambique and Namibia
Fendercare is the leading provider of pneumatic ﬂoating fenders and 
other mooring equipment to the global marine industry. The sectors 
serviced are commercial shipbuilding, ship refurbishment, defence, 
port developments and the oil and gas market for project applications.
Fendercare is also the leading provider of ship-to-ship services for the 
transfer of crude or reﬁned oil, liqueﬁed natural gas or bulk cargoes. 
The demand for these services is driven by the volume of oil trading 
between oil majors and independent traders and also by production 
where local port infrastructure is unable to accommodate large 
tankers.
JF Testing Services is the leading provider of strain gauges to the 
marine industry, which are used in a range of applications such as 
mooring systems on ships and in ports as well as being used to 
monitor structural integrity of infrastructure in the construction and 
transport sectors. The sectors serviced encompass new shipbuilding, 
ship refurbishment and life extension, port developments, and projects 
for the oil and gas market.
It is also a leading provider of specialist testing and monitoring 
services to the construction and maintenance sectors and designs 
and manufactures testing and monitoring equipment, supporting 
customers worldwide.
The market drivers for JF Testing Services are new projects in the 
marine, oil and gas, infrastructure and renewables sectors, where 
our niche offering and innovative products and services provide a 
competitive advantage.
James Fisher Marine Services delivers an integrated service offering 
that utilises the wide range of marine skills across the Group to provide 
added value to its customers. Demand for its services is driven by the 
operation and maintenance activities in the marine, oil and gas and 
renewables sectors.
James Fisher Subsea Excavation specialises in providing mass ﬂow 
excavation tools and services to cover or uncover subsea pipelines or 
cables. Demand for its services is driven by global cable and pipeline 
projects primarily in the oil and gas, renewables and communication 
sectors.
James Fisher Subsea Services is a specialist in providing reliable 
remotely operated vehicle (ROV) systems and diving personnel for 
underwater surveys, inspections, construction and diver support, in the 
offshore oil and gas, hydro power, marine and renewables industries 
worldwide.
Subtech provides a range of marine services to the sub-saharan Africa 
region. Demand for its services is driven by port construction projects, 
diving projects and support for the major salvage companies. 
Market drivers
Sector review Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
63.0 7.4 6.2
Offshore Oil
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 71.2
83.4
99.2
104.9
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 12.8
17.1
19.7
22.4
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011 12.1
15.0
16.4
18.0
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating proﬁt (£m) Return on capital employed (%)
Our Offshore Oil businesses supply a range of services and equipment 
to the global oil and gas industry. This includes the design and 
engineering of specialist equipment, platform maintenance and 
modiﬁcation, well testing support, subsea operations and maintenance 
services. James Fisher is also established as a world leader in artiﬁcial 
lift specialist completion technology and innovative accessory tools for 
electrical submersible pumps.
ScanTech AS is Norway’s leading provider of ATEX (ATmosphères 
EXplosives) products and support services to the Energy sector. Its 
products and services are supplied to the Norwegian oil and gas 
market and which are used for platform maintenance, well testing 
or speciﬁc projects. Equipment is designed and certiﬁcated to the 
Norsok standard. The driver for the business is the operation and 
maintenance spend on offshore rigs in the Norwegian sector.
Scantech Offshore is the leading provider of air compressors, steam 
generators, heat suppression equipment and qualiﬁed personnel for 
the well testing market worldwide. It rents equipment to the large 
multinational oil service companies along with qualiﬁed personnel to 
operate the equipment. The driver of the business is the operation 
and maintenance spend on offshore rigs around the world. 
RMSpumptools is a world leader in artiﬁcial lift specialist completion 
technology and innovative accessory tools for electrical submersible 
pumps. RMSpumptools supplies products to the global downhole 
oil and gas market which improve the productivity of wells utilising 
electrical submersible pumps.
Fisher Offshore provides winches, hoists, marine cranes and subsea 
hydraulic tooling to the oil and gas and marine sectors. Its market 
driver is maintanence, inspection and repair demand and subsea 
projects. 
Offshore Oil operates in niche areas of the oil and gas services 
market. These are predominantly focused on the operation and 
maintenance phases of the market with limited exposure to 
exploration expenditure.
Sector
Market drivers
Our principal businesses
Operations End markets Locations
ScanTech AS Design and engineering of specialist 
equipment, platform maintenance and 
modiﬁcation, well testing support and 
subsea operations
Oil and gas Norway
Scantech 
Offshore
Provides products and services to well 
testing companies
Oil and gas UK, UAE, Brazil, Australia, Malaysia
RMSpumptools Artiﬁcial lift specialist completion 
technology and innovative accessory 
tools for electrical submersible pumps
Oil and gas UK, UAE
Fisher Offshore Provides range of lifting equipment and 
services to the marine, offshore and 
subsea industries
Oil and gas UK, Malaysia 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52.4
60.8
81.9
121.4
6.9 5.4
5.5 6.4
8.5 13.6
13.3 23.5
James Fisher and Sons plc
Specialist Technical
JFD is the world’s leading supplier of saturation diving systems 
and related diving equipment. Its end markets are oil and gas and 
defence. Saturation diving systems are both ﬁxed and portable. 
Fixed systems are usually built into dive support vessels (DSV). JFD 
provides the equipment and the follow-on consumables, support 
and maintenance to the DSV operator. The construction and 
replacement of DSVs drives new build saturation diving systems 
which in turn drives ancillary service and product spend. JFD’s 
defence market is based on service, repair and calibration on-going 
requirements and on projects requiring specialist diving equipment.
JFD is also the world leader in submarine rescue services. It 
encompasses the ability to design, deliver and operate submarine 
rescue vehicles. It has long-term service contracts with navies in a 
very niche area of capability. The driver is the tendering of defence 
projects for provision of the equipment, which can then lead to 
longer term service contracts to operate the service. We currently 
provide submarine rescue services to the UK, Singaporean and 
Australian navies. The business also provides swimmer delivery 
vessels to the special operations markets.
JF Nuclear provides engineered products and services to the 
nuclear industry both in the operation of nuclear power plants and 
decommissioning. Its products and services operate in hazardous 
environments. The business provides instrumentation, non-
destructive testing, calibration and digital radiography to the nuclear, 
aerospace and process industries. The market drivers for JF Nuclear 
are the demand for its products, services and lifetime support 
from the UK decommissioning industry, radiological calibration 
requirements and projects within the aerospace, process and 
defence industries.
Sector
Market drivers
Our principal businesses
129.4 13.9 20.9
Operations End markets Locations
JFD Design, supply and servicing of 
diving and subsea equipment, 
submarine rescue and special 
operations services
Defence, commercial and defence 
diving, hyperbaric and submarine 
rescue
UK, Australia, Singapore, Sweden
JF Nuclear Engineered solutions in remote 
handling, non-destructive testing 
and calibration services
Nuclear decommissioning UK
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating proﬁt (£m) Return on capital employed (%)
Sector review continued
Our Specialist Technical businesses supply diving equipment and services, 
submarine rescue products and support services and engineering solutions to the 
UK nuclear decommissioning market. The submarine rescue market is a small niche 
with a national navy either having its own capability or relying on other countries. 
Other subsea services provided to the defence sector include diving equipment and 
special operations vessels. The Group also supplies saturation diving systems which 
are installed onto dive support vessels and support deep subsea diving activities. 
JF Nuclear provides engineered solutions which operate in hazardous environments 
in the nuclear industry. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
66.8
61.8
61.3
54.3
1.1
2.4
3.2
4.7
2.7
7.3
10.0
19.9
52.5 7.1 28.5
Tankships
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating proﬁt (£m) Return on capital employed (%)
Sector
JF Everard (JFE) distributes clean petroleum products under 
contracts with oil majors from reﬁneries and terminals to storage 
facilities around the European coast and to islands. It operates a ﬂeet 
of double hulled product tankers with capacity ranging from 3,000mt 
to 13,000mt. The business driver is the level of consumption of 
clean products (petrol, diesel, kerosene and biofuels) in the UK, 
Ireland and Northern Europe.
JFE has undertaken 35,000 voyages since the year 2000, carrying 
in excess of 73 million tonnes of petroleum products. This has been 
achieved whilst maintaining an excellent safety record.
Shipping clean petroleum products dramatically reduces our 
customers’ carbon footprint compared to other modes of 
transportation. CO2 emissions are halved for shipping compared to 
road freight and just one full ship keeps more than 150 trucks from 
the roads.
Cattedown Wharves is a port in Plymouth which provides 
stevedoring services to the oil majors who own tank farms in 
Plymouth. It also handles dry cargoes such as animal feed which is 
imported into and clay which is exported from the South West. The 
primary driver for the business is the level of consumption of clean oil 
products within the South West of the UK.
Market drivers
Our principal businesses
Operations End markets Locations
JF Everard Delivery of clean petroleum products 
around the European coastline
Distribution of clean petroleum 
products
UK
Cattedown 
Wharves
Port operations Wet and dry product distribution UK
Our Tankships division operates a ﬂeet of product 
tankers which trade along the UK and North 
European coastline carrying petrol, diesel, kerosene 
and biofuels. We perform over 1,000 voyages each 
year carrying fuel from reﬁnery and terminals to 
major coastal storage facilities. We also operate a 
port in Plymouth, UK. 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Corporate responsibility
Introduction
The Company is committed to building a sustainable and 
proﬁtable business while continuing to operate responsibly 
with honesty, integrity and fairness. Our Board of Directors is 
ultimately responsible for establishing high ethical standards 
of behaviour, effective corporate governance and deﬁnes our 
strategic and ﬁnancial objectives. Corporate responsibility 
remains central to delivering our strategy and the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer is the Director with speciﬁc responsibility 
for corporate responsibility matters and oversees the 
processes and measures used to manage the Group’s social, 
environmental, ethical, health and safety and associated 
internal controls. The Group has implemented a number of 
policies covering anti-bribery and corruption, business ethics, 
whistleblowing and diversity which support our approach to 
corporate responsibility. The effectiveness of these policies 
and procedures are monitored and reviewed on a regular 
basis to ensure that they align with our Group strategy. We 
require all our employees to conduct themselves to the 
highest level of ethical conduct in their business activities and 
to comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards of 
market practice in all jurisdictions where the Group operates. 
We do not permit bribery, illegal or corrupt business practices 
and we provide a procedure for employees to raise any 
malpractice concerns in an appropriate forum without fear of 
recourse.
Our people
As a service business the Board recognises that the success 
of our business is built on the high quality of our talented 
and diverse workforce and that the long-term success of 
the Group is dependent on the quality, skill, dedication and 
motivation of our people. By supporting our people we 
continue to help them grow and develop to ensure that 
they have the best skills to perform their job and to develop 
long-term aspirations and goals with us. Keeping our people 
inspired remains one of our highest priorities. Accordingly we 
are focused on creating an environment where performance 
is rewarded, people are respected for their contribution, 
diversity and inclusion is encouraged and where integrity 
is upheld in all aspects of our work. The Group remains 
committed to recruiting, retaining and developing the 
highest calibre employees to maximise business growth and 
performance and is committed to equal opportunity for all 
employees and job applicants free of discrimination.
The Company also recognises the need to provide varying 
working practices to support both the needs of the Company 
and that of the employee to maintain a successful work-life 
balance. In support of this the Company operates a ﬂexible 
working policy.
We support our employees through training and on-
going investment and seek to ensure that employees 
are informed on matters affecting their employment and 
business developments in the Group through management 
brieﬁngs and newsletters, the Group’s web site, the Group’s 
intranet resource and by the distribution of Preliminary and 
Interim Announcements and press releases. Copies of the 
Annual Report and Accounts are also made available to 
the operating business and this communication process 
enables employees to gain an understanding of the Group’s 
objectives and their roles in achieving them.
To enable personal development, employees are encouraged 
to participate in training and development programmes and 
to obtain professional qualiﬁcations relevant to their roles 
through the Group’s training programmes. The Group has 
broadened its management development and graduate 
recruitment programme which focuses on recruiting talented 
graduates, developing skills and experience and producing 
potential future managers.
We operate in a competitive marketplace and the Board 
recognises the importance of rewarding employees 
appropriately for the value they bring to the business and 
aims to offer rewards that attract and retain key talent. In 
addition, the Company encourages employees to share 
in its success through share ownership and annually 
invites employees to participate in its share schemes. At 
31 December 2015, 290 employees were participants of 
the James Fisher Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(2014: 287).
Equal opportunities and diversity
The Company is committed to equal opportunity and it is our 
policy to ensure that all employees and potential employees 
are treated fairly regardless of their race, religious or political 
beliefs, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation or 
disability. We aim to ensure that people from any background 
or gender have equal access to employment, training 
and career progression opportunities. We strive to select 
individuals on merit and do not consider that targets or 
quotas are appropriate. 
The Board recognises that by having a diverse workforce 
the Group is better placed to meet the differing requirements 
of our global customer base. A strategy is in place to 
identify current and/or future potential successors to senior 
management roles throughout the Group and gender 
diversity is encouraged by the Board. 
Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Set out below is a breakdown of the average number of 
persons by gender and category throughout the Group:
2015 2014
Male Female Male Female
Main Board Directors 61 61
Senior Managers 41 9 37 9
Employees 2,151 539 2,007 434
All of our employees are treated with respect and dignity and 
harassment of any kind is not tolerated. It is our policy and 
practice to give full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment by disabled people. If an employee became 
disabled during the course of their employment, wherever 
practicable, the Group would make every effort to ensure 
that arrangements and adjustments are made to continue 
their employment and arrange appropriate training for that 
employee.
Health and safety 
The Group is fully committed to delivering the highest 
standards of safety to its employees and to contractors 
and visitors to the Group’s premises. We continue to strive 
towards our ultimate aim of having no accidents or injuries 
and we promote a proactive safety culture across the Group 
that ensures continuous improvement. We have a strong 
focus on employee training, regulatory compliance and 
accident reduction all of which are monitored and reported 
on across the Group. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer has 
overall responsibility for health and safety and the review 
of health and safety performance is high on the agenda at 
each Board and business board meeting and remains a top 
priority for our Group. In accordance with our decentralised 
management approach, accountability is with local 
management to comply with local laws and regulations and 
speciﬁc needs.
Nick Henry chairs the Group Health and Safety Committee 
(GHSC), which meets on a quarterly basis to discuss all 
health and safety issues including incidents, mitigating 
actions and training requirements. The GHSC ensures that 
recordable safety incidents are reported to the Board and 
each Group operating company is maintaining high standards 
of health and safety in its business. Through the GHSC, the 
Group shares best practice and following any health and 
safety incidents, including near misses, appropriate corrective 
action is taken to mitigate the risk of their recurrence.
The Group’s principal operating companies maintain 
internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety 
Management Systems accredited to OHSAS 18001 
and management systems which are accredited to the 
international quality standard ISO 19001. The Group has 
adopted the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR) in the reporting of 
recordable incidents.
A reportable incident under RIDDOR is a work-related injury 
which results in a person’s incapacitation for more than 
seven days. The number of reportable incidents across the 
Group in 2015 was 5 (2014: 4). The Group also records lost 
time accidents (LTA’s) to monitor performance and trends. 
An LTA is where a worker is incapacitated for three or more 
consecutive days, not including the day of incident. In 2015 
the Group incurred 5 LTA’s (2014: 3).
The Group also monitors its overall RIDDOR reportable 
frequency rate deﬁned as the number of LTA’s per one 
hundred thousand hours of work. In 2015, the Group’s 
RIDDOR reportable frequency rate was 0.1 (2014: 0.1).
Environmental
The Group is committed to operating its businesses in 
an environmentally responsible manner, recognises that 
its operations have an impact on the environment and is 
committed to working within the appropriate regulatory 
framework to minimise the environmental impacts of its 
operations, so far as reasonably practicable.
The majority of our principal operating companies are 
ISO 14001 compliant. This internationally recognised 
environmental management system enables a systematic 
approach to handling environmental issues within an 
organisation.
Energy consumption was measured across the Group by 
recording data on the combustion of fuel and the use of 
electricity at its facilities. The Group’s total greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG) are set out below. Emissions from the 
combustion of bunkers on our Tankships business amounted 
to 93% of the Group’s total emissions (2014: 94%). However 
one 4,000 metric ton vessel can carry 150 times the volume 
of fuel transported by a single road tanker, which signiﬁcantly 
reduces congestion and emissions to air. 
Emissions total (in thousands of metric tons)
2015 2014 
CO 2 equivalent from electricity 
consumption in facilities
2.7 2.8
CO 2 from combustion of fuel at 
facilities and road vehicles
2.6 1.6
CO 2 from combustion of fuel in 
vessels
65.0 73.9
Total emissions (CO 2) 70.3 78.4
The Group’s carbon intensity ratio calculated against Group 
revenue is 0.02% (2014: 0.02%). In 2015 the increase in 
combustion of fuel was attributable to businesses acquired 
during this year. The Group’s aim is to reduce our GHG 
emissions, where possible. To help do so we have identiﬁable 
series of actions to help reduce carbon intensive activities, 
including monitoring and reducing energy consumption, 
actively improving energy efﬁciency and avoiding 
unnecessary travel. Our Tankships division operates a Ship 
Energy Efﬁciency Management Plan to regulate shipping 
energy efﬁciency and to control our marine GHG emissions.  22 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate responsibility continued
Waste management and recycling of materials, where 
practicable, is encouraged across the Group and in an effort 
to reduce our carbon emissions from travelling to and from 
company meetings, the use of video conferencing facilities is 
actively encouraged throughout the Group.
Human rights
James Fisher is committed to supporting and respecting 
human rights in our workplaces and the communities in 
which we operate across our international business. We 
have implemented everyday work practices and policies 
throughout the Group which are designed to ensure that 
respect for human rights is integrated into the systems and 
culture of our business. We do not tolerate the use of child or 
forced labour within our business and take all steps possible 
to ensure that our suppliers also uphold all internationally 
recognised human rights.
Business ethics and anti-bribery and 
corruption policies
As a Group we aim to act responsibly and ethically in all of 
our business dealings. Through our ethics policy we aim to 
instil the highest standards of business behaviour across 
the Group and focuses on embedding a culture of ethical 
compliance, so that all of our employees understand the 
standards of ethical business practices that are expected 
from them. As well as protecting the reputation of the Group 
and safeguarding the investment of our shareholders, the 
business ethics policy aims to protect the interests of every 
employee by ensuring legal and regulatory compliance as 
well as promoting responsible behaviour across the Group.
The Group has an established anti-bribery and corruption 
policy and has introduced an extensive compliance 
programme which has full support of the Board and 
from senior management. The programme includes 
communication of the statement and policy, training, risk 
assessment, monitoring and review processes. Employees 
assessed to be at risk are required to complete the training 
and to self-certify that they understand and agree to be 
bound by its provisions.
On-going compliance is monitored by local compliance 
ofﬁcers who are required to report to their local boards and 
to the Group Compliance Ofﬁcer on at least a biannual basis. 
The compliance ofﬁcers are responsible for ensuring that risk 
assessments, training and awareness are up to date and are 
required to monitor, record and report agency arrangements 
with third parties.
Customers
All of our customers are important to us and the Group aims 
to provide superior customer service through value added 
solutions combined with high quality products. High class 
customer service and product and service innovation are 
critical elements in helping customers to ﬁnd solutions and 
to be successful. We appreciate that every customer has 
different needs and expectations and we have developed 
long lasting relationships with customers over many years 
and have followed a customer-led strategy to expand into 
the fast growing international markets. We are proud to be a 
trusted partner of major corporations, government agencies 
and customers around the world and understand that 
continued commitment to our existing and future customers 
is fundamental to our success. Accordingly, we strive to work 
hard to understand our customers’ needs, and to continue 
delivering client satisfaction.
Suppliers 
The Group requires its businesses to develop their own 
strong, long-term relationships with suppliers based upon 
best practice, legal requirements and Group policies and 
procedures. Group companies promote social responsibility, 
trade compliance and anti-corruption within their own 
suppliers base. Key suppliers are vetted to ensure that 
they adhere to all relevant laws, our polices and our codes 
of conduct and where appropriate operate recognised 
international quality, health and safety and management 
systems.
London Marathon 
runners raise money 
for great causes
Two James Fisher employees completed this year’s 
London Marathon, raising funds for charitable 
causes. James Martin, business development 
manager at Fendercare who completed in 4 hours 
and 36 minutes, raised money for spinal research, 
and Nicola Morrow, ﬁnance manager at JF Testing 
Services, completed in 5 hours, 26 minutes 
and raised money for the Children’s Cancer and 
Leukaemia charity. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Structural Safety of 
Small Vessels
In 2015 SJFF supported an important maritime training 
programme being developed at Loughborough 
University encouraging the more widespread use of 
techniques to determine the structural safety of smaller 
vessels put to sea. There are many small vessels at sea 
whose hull and superstructure are critically compromised 
and yet the owner or operator is unaware of the 
potential danger. On 16 May 2014 the UK registered 
yacht Cheeki-Raﬁki on passage from Antigua to the UK 
was lost approximately 720 miles off the coast of Nova 
Scotia. The keel of the vessel detached and the yacht 
capsized so quickly that the crew were immediately 
ejected and they have not been found. 
Professor Tyrer of the Department of Mechanical and 
Manufacturing Engineering, working with the Royal 
National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI), has developed an 
optical method for non-destructive testing of all marine 
composite vessels. The technique uses a laser-based video strain imaging system which can identify the location of 
any defect within the hull and superstructure construction.  This technique has ensured that no composite vessel of 
the RNLI has been compromised or been unavailable for full-service over the last 20 years.
The Foundation donated £73,000 to purchase the necessary equipment to launch a teaching course speciﬁcally 
aimed at UK marine engineers and technicians, to inform them of these methods and techniques which can be used 
to validate new vessels and audit damaged vessels, such that areas of repair can be identiﬁed and validated once 
suitable repairs have been undertaken.  
Loughborough’s testing technique, when taught and adopted industry-wide, will implement the key ﬁndings from the 
Marine Accident Investigation Branch’s report into the Cheeki-Raﬁki incident and help save lives at sea.
Communities
The Group continues to encourage its businesses to support 
local communities within their operational areas and during 
the year employees throughout the Group have given their 
time and money undertaking a wide range of charitable 
giving and fund raising activities. Charitable causes and 
groups supported by Group companies and employees in 
2015 included : Scarborough Engineering Fair; the Children’s 
Cancer and Leukemia Group; St Thomas Moore School for 
special needs, Newcastle; Hebburn Juniors football club for 
partially disabled children; the University of Strathclyde; Cash 
for Kids; Macmillan Cancer and Run Garioch. 
The Sir John Fisher Foundation (SJFF) is a charitable trust 
established in 1979 by Sir John and Lady Fisher and 
supports causes throughout the UK, but with special regard 
to those based in and working for the beneﬁt of people 
living in and around Barrow-in-Furness and the surrounding 
area. The Trustees of SJFF retain a signiﬁcant shareholding 
in the Company and support charitable causes in relation 
to maritime, medical and disability, education, music, arts 
and community projects. In 2015 the Foundation made 
commitments to charitable causes of £1.7m (2014: £1.5m). 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Appointed: Joined James Fisher in February 
2003 as Managing Director of James Fisher 
Tankships Limited and was appointed Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer in December 2004. 
Skills and experience: Nick worked for 20 
years for P&O Containers and P&O Ports, of 
which 10 years were in senior management 
positions based in Singapore, Hong Kong, 
Australia, Netherlands and the Indian Sub-
Continent. Nick’s experience encompasses a 
wide range of commercial and operational roles, 
including ﬂeet management and information 
technology. 
External appointments: Member of the 
Supervisory Board of the UK Chamber of 
Shipping.
Appointed: Joined the Group in July 2010 and 
was appointed to the Board as Group Finance 
Director in December 2010. 
Skills and experience: Stuart is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
England and Wales and qualiﬁed with BDO 
Binder Hamlyn. Stuart was formerly Group 
Finance Director of Empresaria Group plc, and he 
previously held senior ﬁnance roles with Vodafone 
Group plc, Charles Baynes plc and Elementis 
Group plc.
External appointments: None
Appointed: Joined the Board in April 2004 and 
was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 
August 2012. 
Skills and experience: Charles has wide 
experience in commercial shipping having held a 
number of commercial and operational roles with 
Overseas Containers Limited. During the 1990s 
he was responsible for the development of P&O’s 
Trans European logistics and services division 
and was appointed as a main board Director of 
The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation 
Company (P&O) in 2001. 
External appointments: Following a number of 
other directorships, Charles is currently Chairman 
of the Transport Research Foundation.
Charles Rice
Chairman of the Board and Nominations 
Committee +
Nick Henry
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Stuart Kilpatrick
Group Finance Director
Malcolm Paul
Senior Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees *#+
Aedamar Comiskey
Non-Executive Director *#+
Chairman
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
David Moorhouse 
CBE
Non-Executive Director *#+
Michael Salter
Non-Executive Director *#+
* Audit Committee # Remuneration Committee + Nominations Committee
Board of Directors
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
February 2011.
Skills and experience: Malcolm is 
a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales 
and was a founder and former 
Finance Director of WSP Group 
plc between 1987 and 2009. Prior 
to that Malcolm was a principal 
at the corporate ﬁnance boutique 
Financial Decisions and an equity 
partner at Longcrofts, Chartered 
Accountants. 
External appointments: Chairman 
of Anthesis Consulting Group, a 
private equity backed international 
company.
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
November 2014.
Skills and experience: Aedamar 
has been a partner at Linklaters LLP 
since 2001 and is a member of the 
ﬁrm’s International Board. Aedamar 
specialises in international and 
domestic mergers and acquisitions, 
joint ventures and fundraisings and is 
very involved in expanding Linklaters’ 
business in Latin America. Before 
joining Linklaters, Aedamar worked 
for two years as a consultant with 
Accenture in Dublin, Chicago and 
Belfast.
External appointments: None 
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
August 2013.
Skills and experience: David was 
formerly Executive Chairman of 
Lloyds Register and earlier in his 
career, CEO of John Brown plc, a 
director of Trafalgar House plc and 
Executive Vice President of Kvaerner 
where he had particular responsibility 
for their engineering and process 
businesses. 
External appointments: 
Chairman of Braemer Shipping plc; 
Non-Executive Director of OAO 
Sovcomﬂot; Life member of the 
UK’s Foundation for Science and 
Technology.
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
August 2013.
Skills and experience: Michael was 
formerly Chief Operating Ofﬁcer at 
Abbot Group plc and earlier in his 
career, CEO of Smedvig Limited and 
General Manager of Bawden Drilling 
UK Ltd. 
External appointments:  
Non-Executive Director of SAR 
Gruppen AS; Director of ASV Pioneer 
Limited. Introduction from the Chairman
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report on behalf of the Board. This report together with the Audit
Committee and Directors’ remuneration reports are intended to give shareholders a clear and meaningful explanation of how
the Board and its Committees discharge their corporate governance duties and how the principles of good governance as
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (Code
1
) have been applied throughout the Group.
Our statement of compliance with the main principles of the Code is set out below. The Board is committed to good
corporate governance and considers it essential in assisting the business to deliver its strategy and overall objectives
including safeguarding shareholders’ long-term interests.
I would encourage all shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 28 April 2016 as it provides an excellent
opportunity to meet the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Rice
Chairman
1 March 2016
Statement of compliance
The Board is accountable to shareholders for maintaining high standards of corporate governance and for ensuring that
values and behaviours are consistent across the Group. The Board conﬁrms that, without exception, the Company complied
with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and from that date up to the date of
this report. 
Leadership
Role of the Board
The Board is the principal decision making forum for the Company. The Board is responsible for the long-term success of
the Company and for its leadership, strategic direction, control and management.
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are separate, clearly distinct and the division of their responsibilities is
set out in writing and approved by the Board. The Chairman’s role is to lead the Board and ensure the Board operates
effectively in all aspects. The Board considers that Charles Rice, up to the date of his appointment as Chairman, was
independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s role is to have the day to day responsibility of running the Group including leadership of senior
management in executing the Company’s strategy and managing the operational requirements of the Group’s businesses.
The Board has considered and is satisﬁed that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer operate effectively.
Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors combine broad business and commercial experience to bring independent
and objective judgement to bear and to challenge constructively the Executive Directors on issues of strategy, performance,
resource and standards of conduct. The balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors enables the Board to
provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the Group’s business activities.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufﬁcient time to allow for attendance at Board and Committee
meetings and for keeping in touch with the senior management team, shareholders and other stakeholders. Malcolm Paul,
the Senior Independent Director, also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for Non-Executive
Directors where necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and to
ensure that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Company Secretary
also advises the Directors on any important changes in legislation, regulation and best practice. In addition, all Directors have
access to independent professional advice as necessary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
James Fisher and Sons plc
Corporate governance report
1 A copy of the Code can be found at the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) web site frc.org.uk
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following committees:
• Remuneration Committee;
• Nomination Committee; and
• Audit Committee. 
Each Committee has formal written terms of reference which are reviewed annually. Further detail on each of these
Committees is provided on pages 28 and 29. The terms of reference are renewed annually and available on the Company’s
website.
In addition to the formal Committees, the Board has appointed an Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman and the
Executive Directors, which has written terms of reference and reports to the Board. The Board also appoints from time to
time sub-committees consisting of at least two Directors in order to ﬁnalise and approve those matters that have been
approved in principle by the Board. 
Operation of the Board
Subject to the Company’s Articles, the Executive Committee is empowered to take such actions as considered necessary
relating to the affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine nature, subject to such limits as the
Board in its discretion determines. The Executive Committee reports into the Board via the Chairman. The Executive
Directors meet with the Chairman at least monthly. The Executive Directors also meet at least monthly with the Group’s
central senior executive team and also meet with the managing directors of the principal businesses on at least a quarterly
basis to deal with operational issues, review risks and to develop and implement strategy.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the Company’s affairs which are deemed
signiﬁcant enough to be reserved for only the Board to approve, including:
• strategy and management;
• corporate governance;
• oversight of the Group’s operations to ensure competent management, sound planning, adequate accounting and
records and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations;
• annual operating plan and capital expenditure;
• review of ﬁnancial performance in light of the Group’s strategy, short-term and medium-term objectives, business
budgets;
• major corporate transactions;
• material contracts;
• assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and how they are being managed;
• the Group’s systems of internal control and risk management;
• approval of the Viability Statement;
• all new bank facilities or signiﬁcant changes to existing facilities;
• key policies; and
• approval of the Group and Company ﬁnancial statements.
The schedule is reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
All Directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and ﬁnancial and risk management of the Company. Strategy,
acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital investments are agreed between the Chairman, the Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer and Group Finance Director prior to review and approval by the Board. Meetings of the Board are structured to allow
open discussion and as scheduled, the Board met six times in 2015. Directors’ attendance at the Board and Committee
meetings convened in the year is shown in the table on page 29.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman ensures that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear
information on all relevant matters in advance of the Board meetings, including comprehensive ﬁnancial and business reports
covering the Group’s principal activities. The Non-Executive Directors regularly visit major business centres of the Group in
order to enhance their knowledge including in relation to the services and products offered, which in turn acts to strengthen
their contribution to Board debate.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Corporate governance report continued During the year, the Board has considered a wide range of matters including corporate governance, Group strategy,
forecasts and long-term objectives, acquisitions, ﬁnancing, taxation, risk management, internal controls, the Group’s
principal risks, management and succession planning and Board composition. 
Board Effectiveness
Size, composition and independence of the Board
There are currently seven Directors on the Board comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the
Group Finance Director and four other Non-Executive Directors. The names and biographical details of the members of the
Board are set out on page 24. More than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors, and the
Board is satisﬁed that all of these were independent throughout the year. 
During the year, Charles Rice met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present on more than
one occasion and Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Director, met with the other Non-Executive Directors without the
Chairman present on more than one occasion.
The Board functions effectively and efﬁciently and is considered to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the
Company and the diversity of its businesses. The Board considers that each Director demonstrates the knowledge, ability
and experience required to perform the functions of a director of the listed company and is of the calibre necessary to
support and develop the Company’s long-term strategy and success. The Board further considers that each Director is able
to devote sufﬁcient time to the Company’s business and that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the
Board’s decision making.
Training and induction
On appointment, new Directors are given a detailed induction to the Group’s business, together with an on-going
programme of visits to the Group’s major sites and meetings with senior management. On-going training and development
for Directors is available as appropriate and is reviewed annually.
Board evaluation
At the end of each year, the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Remuneration,
Nominations and Audit Committees and of each individual Director. The performance evaluations are designed to assist the
Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas for further improving performance.
The Board engaged Advanced Boardroom Excellence Limited (ABEL), an independent entity with no connection to the
Company, to facilitate the 2015 annual review of performance of the Board and its Committees against the framework of
Board effectiveness produced by the FRC. ABEL interviewed all of the Directors and the Company Secretary and reviewed
Board papers, including documents from the Board’s Committees. The anonymity of all respondents was ensured
throughout the process in order to encourage an open and frank exchange of views. The results were analysed by ABEL and
discussed with the Chairman, ﬁnalised and presented to the Board. 
The review concluded that the Board works well as a unit and has a good mix of business experience to ensure that issues
are examined from a broad range of perspectives. The documentation reviewed by the Board reﬂects a good level of
governance and process relative to the size of the James Fisher Group.
The annual review of individual Directors performance was conducted internally. The Chairman’s performance was reviewed
by the other Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and taking into account the
views of the Executive Directors. The performance of the Executive Directors was reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors
with the Chairman in attendance. The Chairman and the Executive Directors reviewed the performance of each of the other
Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers that each Director continues to contribute and demonstrate commitment to
the role. 
Accountability
Financial and business reporting
The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, present a fair, balanced and understandable
assessment of the Group and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
performance, business model and strategy. In making this assessment, the Board took into account its own knowledge of
the Group, the markets in which the Group operates, its strategy and performance in the year, a detailed review of the
content of the Annual Report and Accounts and other periodic ﬁnancial statements and announcements, together with the
recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The going concern assessment and the viability statement are set out on pages 49 and 50.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its
strategic objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains sound risk management and internal control procedures. 
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors the Group’s risk management and internal control process and
reviews its effectiveness on an on-going basis. This is part of an established process, in accordance with the FRC Guidance
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in September 2014, for the
identiﬁcation, evaluation and management of the signiﬁcant risks facing the Group, which operates and is reviewed
continually throughout the year. The Group’s internal control systems are designed to provide the Board with reasonable
assurance as to the effective and efﬁcient operation of the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting
and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal
control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance. The Board
has taken appropriate action to remedy any signiﬁcant control failings as referred to in the Audit Committee report on
page 32. 
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Details of those principal risks and the Group’s approach to
mitigating them are set out on pages 10 and 11 in the Strategic report.
Whistleblowing policy
As part of its internal control procedures, the Group has a whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report in
good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice in order to identify any problems within the Group at an
early stage. The policy is designed to ensure that any employee who raises a genuine concern is protected. Any concerns
can be raised in the ﬁrst instance with the Company Secretary in conﬁdence.
Anti-bribery and corruption
The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all of the Group’s business dealings and condemns corruption
in all its forms. The Group has a formal anti-bribery and corruption statement and policy and does not tolerate or condone
corruption or bribery in any of the Group’s business dealings. This policy has been implemented throughout the Group and is
supported by a group-wide training and awareness programme and regular compliance reviews. This policy is reviewed
annually by the Board and is available on the Group’s website.
Relations with shareholders
The Company communicates with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly Report, preliminary
announcements, interim management statements, investor days and the Company web site. The Board takes the
opportunity at the AGM to meet and communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their
involvement. In addition, the Company invites regular direct communication with its shareholders as part of the Company’s
investor relations programme.
Non-attributable feedback on the investor presentations given by the Company to shareholders is circulated to the Board.
The Chairman periodically consults with major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of any issues and
concerns and the Senior Independent Director is available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested. In
addition if at any meetings of the Executive Directors with investors a governance or strategy matter is raised, it is relayed
back to the Board.
The Board is therefore of the view that appropriate steps have been taken to ensure all Board members, in particular the
Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of the major shareholders.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board. The Committee members
are Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter. The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference. In summary, the Committee’s terms of reference
include:
• To determine and agree with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives;
• To review the appropriateness and relevance of the Group’s remuneration policy; and
• To ensure that the provisions of the Code are fulﬁlled.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Corporate governance report continued The Chairman attends the Committee’s meetings by invitation and is not present when his own terms and conditions are
discussed. During the year the Committee had three scheduled meetings. The work of the Committee including the
chairman’s overview is described in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 33 to 45.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board. The Committee members
are Charles Rice, Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter. The Committee is chaired by
Charles Rice. Aedamar Comiskey joined the Committee on 1 November 2015. The Committee is formally constituted with
written terms of reference which include:
• To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board (including skills, knowledge, diversity and
experience) and recommend changes;
• Succession planning for Directors and senior executives; and
• Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, candidates to ﬁll vacancies when they arise.
The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. 
The Board recognises the importance of diversity and in light of the Davies’ Review Steering Group’s recommendation in
October 2015, the Committee recommended and the Board agreed that a target be adopted that by 31 December 2018, at
least two of seven Board members be female. The Committee had one scheduled meeting in 2015 and its work included
reviewing the composition of the Board, succession planning and recommending to the Board the appointment of Aedamar
Comiskey to the Nominations Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of ﬁnancial reporting, risk management and internal
controls. The Committee members are Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter. The
Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul. The Audit Committee report on pages 30 to 32 describes in detail the Committee’s
role and activities.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings
Directors’ attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of Meetings 6431
Charles Rice 6/6 – – 1/1
Nick Henry 6/6–––
Stuart Kilpatrick 6/6–––
Malcolm Paul 6/6 4/4 3/3 1/1
Aedamar Comiskey 5/6 4/4 3/3 1/1
David Moorhouse 5/6 3/4 3/3 1/1
Michael Salter 6/6 4/4 3/3 1/1
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for oversight and monitoring of ﬁnancial reporting, risk
management and internal control. As chairman of the Committee, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee fulﬁls
its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective manner. The Committee’s agenda is designed, in conjunction with the Board’s,
to ensure that all signiﬁcant areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely input to Board deliberations.
In line with the Code this report seeks to provide an insight into the matters considered by the Committee during the year
and therefore to provide assurance to shareholders that the control environment of the Group is being properly supervised
and monitored.
I am satisﬁed that the Committee is properly constituted with written terms of reference, which include all matters referred to
in the Code and is provided with appropriate information to allow sufﬁcient time for discussion and to ensure that all matters
are considered fully. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website.
Of particular importance is the requirement to ensure that the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting is fair, balanced and
understandable. We therefore review all of the Group’s ﬁnancial reports before publication with this responsibility in mind and
we are satisﬁed that they provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and performance.
Malcolm Paul
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Membership of the Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul and consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors. The
Board is satisﬁed that Malcolm Paul, a Chartered Accountant, who was formerly Finance Director of a FTSE 250 company,
has signiﬁcant recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. The other members are David Moorhouse, Michael Salter and
Aedamar Comiskey. Committee attendance is shown on page 29. 
The Committee had three meetings during the year in February, August and November on dates scheduled to coincide with
the ﬁnancial reporting cycle and also met on one other occasion. The Group Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Group
Finance Director, the Company Secretary and senior members of the ﬁnance function attend by invitation together with
representatives of the external auditor, including the reporting partner, and internal auditor. 
At each scheduled meeting the Committee members have the opportunity to discuss matters privately with the external
auditor and the internal auditor. In addition, the chairman of the Committee maintains regular contact with the external audit
reporting partner to discuss matters related to the Group. Details of the Committee’s speciﬁc responsibilities and how it
exercises those responsibilities is set out in the remainder of this report. The Committee also formally reviews its own
performance each year.
Main responsibilities
The Audit Committee’s main duties and responsibilities include: monitor the integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements and
review and challenge to signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting judgements therein; review the Group’s internal ﬁnancial controls and
the systems for risk management and internal control; monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function;
monitor the Company’s policies for handling allegations from whistleblowers; assess the independence and objectivity of the
external auditor, make recommendations to the Board for the external auditor’s appointment, re-appointment and removal
together and approve their remuneration, terms of engagement and provision of non-audit services.
Financial reporting
The Committee’s primary responsibility in relation to the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting is to review and challenge where
necessary, with both management and the external auditor, the appropriateness of the Group’s half yearly and annual
ﬁnancial statements with particular focus on:
• whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and properly applied;
• the clarity of disclosures, compliance with ﬁnancial reporting standards and relevant ﬁnancial and governance reporting
requirements;
• whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in material areas or where there has been
discussion with or issues raised by the external auditor;
• whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Audit Committee report To facilitate our ﬁnancial reporting responsibility we receive reports from KPMG at three of the meetings. The ﬁrst, in
February, which contains the ﬁndings of KPMG’s audit work, including comments on the draft Annual Report and Accounts.
The August meeting considers a review by KPMG of the half year results and the November meeting receives the planning
memorandum for the annual audit together with an indication of the proposed audit fee which is subject to subsequent
agreement.
Integrity of ﬁnancial reporting
We reviewed the integrity of the annual and half yearly ﬁnancial statements of the Company. This included the review and
discussion of papers prepared by management and took account of the views of the external auditor. The key areas
reviewed in the current year are set out below. 
Revenue recognition and construction contracts
Long-term (construction) contracts often span a period end and as a result judgements are made on the stage of completion
of these contracts to fairly present revenue and proﬁt recognition. The Group uses established and consistent accounting
policies to account for construction contracts. The Committee received reports on a number of contracts and challenged the
methodology by which revenue and proﬁts had been recognised. Where appropriate, matters arising were discussed with
the Group Finance Director and the Committee concluded that the ﬁnancial statements recognised revenue in accordance
with the Group’s accounting policies.
Goodwill valuation
We considered the carrying value of goodwill and the impairment review which was based on the underlying assumptions in
calculating the value of a cash generating unit. The key assumptions are the achievability of long-term forecasts and the
discount rates applied to the forecast cash ﬂows. As an area of audit focus, the Group Finance Director provided detailed
reporting to the Committee including an assessment of the sensitivity analysis carried out.
Operations in overseas jurisdictions
The Group has operations in overseas jurisdictions particularly in emerging markets, sometimes in association with local
shareholders. This potentially increases the level of ﬁnancial and governance risk in the Group. The Committee receives
regular updates on the operational and ﬁnancial performance of these businesses together with the assessment of areas
where speciﬁc judgements have been necessary. Where appropriate the Group seeks local professional advice on matters of
legislation and tax and responds accordingly. During the year, the principal customer of one of the Group’s overseas
subsidiaries terminated its contract creating uncertainty around the timing and value of ﬁnal settlement. The Committee
reviewed management’s estimate of the ﬁnancial outcome in detail. 
Acquisition accounting
The level of judgement involved in determining acquisition fair values and the valuation of acquired intangible assets is a
potential risk to the Group. The Committee considered the fair value and accounting policy adjustments made to each
acquisition and assessments in respect of contingent consideration provisions. These were discussed with the Group
Finance Director and the external auditor separately and the Committee concluded that acquisitions had been accounted for
in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
The Committee was satisﬁed that each of the matters set out above was adequately addressed by the Executive Directors,
appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that disclosures made in the half yearly and Annual Report and
Accounts were appropriate.
Going concern
We reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. We reviewed a
paper prepared by management which considered the Group’s internal budgets and forecasts of future performance,
available ﬁnancing facilities and facility headroom. Taking account of possible changes that may impact trading performance
and other factors that might affect availability, the Group expects to maintain signiﬁcant headroom under its borrowing
facilities for the forthcoming year.
External audit
Performance
The Committee continually assesses the performance of the external auditor from the initial planning stage when they receive
and discuss the audit plan and proposed strategy, approach, objectives, signiﬁcant risk areas and other areas of focus,
drawing on input from the Group’s senior management, until conclusion of the audit. The Committee conducts annually a
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements formal assessment of the external auditor’s performance based on its own review and that of the Group’s senior
management. This process includes the use of questionnaires which focus on the quality and experience of the audit teams,
the robustness of the audit process and the quality of communication and governance, including the independence of the
audit ﬁrm. The results of the review are considered by the Committee and discussed with the auditor and senior
management and reported to the Board.
For the 2015 audit, the Committee considered that the performance of the external auditor including their interaction with the
Company, senior management and the Committee was good. The Committee also continues to consider KPMG to be
independent and effective in their role as auditor. Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP
should be re-appointed as auditor and a resolution to this effect will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
Audit appointment
KPMG has been the Company’s auditor since 2008 during which time the audit has not been put out to tender. The
Committee has considered the requirement of the Code to put the external audit to tender at least every ten years and the
requirements of the Competition and Markets Commission and the potential implementation of the EU Audit Reform
Regulation. As a result, it plans to complete a competitive tender for the audit services contract by 2017 at the latest. There
are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committee’s choice of external auditor.
Non-audit services
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Company has an established policy in respect of
non-audit fee work that may be undertaken by the auditor. Whilst the Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit
nature is best undertaken by the auditor, it is a requirement that where fees exceed an agreed threshold, approval to use the
auditor for such work must be given in advance by the Committee. In 2015, KPMG carried out corporate advisory work
including due diligence reports on acquisitions and tax advisory work including tax advice on acquisitions, transfer pricing
and research and development. Non-audit fees paid to KPMG represented 39% of the audit fee in 2015 and 28% of total
fees paid.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal control systems. The Audit Committee is
responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of these systems and the Group’s internal audit function. The
Committee received reports throughout the year including from the Risk Committee and has reviewed the Group’s systems
of risk management and internal controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls, and is satisﬁed that the
systems are sound and effective. Reports on internal control failings or whistleblowing complaints are referred to the Audit
Committee for review. Two instances of internal control failure related to cyber security were reported in 2015 as a result of
which controls were tightened and new procedures implemented. No material ﬁnancial losses were incurred. There was one
whistleblowing report in 2015 which was investigated, but no evidence to substantiate the allegation was found. 
Internal audit
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the work of the internal audit function. Internal audit identify, report on and
address key commercial and ﬁnancial risk and control issues. The internal audit function is managed by an experienced
professional and consists of peer group reviews, whereby a senior manager from the Group conducts an audit of a non-
related area of the Group, and reviews by the internal audit function. These are in accordance with an annual programme
approved by the Committee. The scope of each internal audit review is agreed by the Committee in consultation with the
Executive Directors and the internal auditor in advance to try to ensure that key areas for each business are addressed. 
In 2015 thirteen internal audits were undertaken, twelve in the UK and one overseas. The internal audit reports are presented
to the Committee for review and shared with local and Group managers for review and action as appropriate, and also
provided to the external auditor for information. The internal auditor is responsible to the Committee for ensuring that all
required actions are completed in a timely manner.
The effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function is continually reviewed and a formal review is undertaken annually by
the Board and the Committee. Following the ﬁnal 2015 review, the Committee recommended and the Board concluded that
the Group’s internal audit process was appropriate and effective.
The responsibilities and processes for risk management are described in more detail on page 10.
Malcolm Paul
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
1 March 2016
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Audit Committee report continued Annual statement
Introduction by Malcolm Paul, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board, and the Remuneration Committee, which I chair, I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration
report for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Pay and performance in 2015
James Fisher continued to deliver sustainable returns in a challenging market in 2015 but had to report the ﬁrst decline in
proﬁts for some years. The key performance measures for the 2015 ﬁnancial year were as follows:
• Underlying proﬁt before tax £41.2m (2014: £46.9m)
• Underlying diluted earnings per share 68.5p (2014: 74.0p)
Each year the performance of the Executive Directors is assessed against a range of ﬁnancial and personal objectives which
are aligned with the delivery of the Group’s strategy and objectives. By incentivising and rewarding performance that delivers
our objectives we ensure that pay is tied to performance and value delivered to shareholders. 
The Executive Directors’ potential maximum level of bonus in 2015 was 100% of base salary, with 70% based on meeting
the Group’s ﬁnancial objectives and 30% based on individual achievement and personal objectives. The Group’s ﬁnancial
targets for the year ended 31 December 2015 were not achieved and this element of bonus was not awarded. Personal
objectives were partly met and a cash bonus award of 22.5% of base salary was approved for Nick Henry and for Stuart
Kilpatrick. Awards under the LTIP granted in 2013 will vest in full on 6 April 2016, having achieved the maximum earnings per
share performance target over the three year performance period ended 31 December 2015. Awards under the ESOS
granted in April 2013, which are subject to relative total shareholder return (TSR) targets, are not expected to vest based on
the calculations as at 31 December 2015.
2016 remuneration
Annual pay awards are determined on a country and sectoral basis, to ensure that pay levels in each subsidiary company are
fair and appropriate to local market and industry conditions. In the UK, against a back-drop of near zero inﬂation levels, any
pay increases made for 2016 have reﬂected conditions in each business sector as well as individual merit awards. Overall,
UK salary increases are around 1% at an aggregate level. Against this background and reﬂecting the reduced proﬁtability
achieved in 2015, the Board has agreed that there will be no increase in the salaries and beneﬁts of the Executive Directors
in 2016 and no increase in the fees paid to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration policy for 2016
The Company’s remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM in April 2015 and the current intention is that
it will apply until the 2018 AGM. Therefore, we will not be asking shareholders to vote on the policy at the 2016 AGM. 
In summary, executive remuneration consists of a base salary, pension contribution, beneﬁt provision and, subject to
performance conditions, an annual bonus plan, part paid in cash and part deferred into shares, and shares awarded under
an LTIP . Incentive pay is subject to clawback and malus provisions and, post-vesting, Executive Directors are required to
retain the net of tax shares awarded until they have satisﬁed the Company’s share ownership guidelines.
The Committee considers that the remuneration policy is appropriate and that it satisﬁes the Committee’s objective to
operate a remuneration structure which successfully promotes the long-term success of the Group and fully aligns the
interests of the Executive Directors with those of our shareholders.
Shareholder feedback
The Company will continue to engage and communicate with shareholders regarding the Company’s remuneration policy
and to take suitable action when required. I hope you will join me in supporting the resolutions in respect of this year’s
Directors’ remuneration report at the AGM on 28 April 2016.
Malcolm Paul
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1 March 2016
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration policy report
Overview of Directors’ remuneration policy
James Fisher and Sons plc operates in a competitive international environment. To continue to compete successfully, the
Committee considers that it is essential that the level of remuneration and beneﬁts achieves the objective of attracting,
retaining, motivating and rewarding the necessary high calibre of individuals at all levels of the business. The Company
therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all of its employees, appropriate to the business environment in
those countries in which it operates.
The remuneration strategy is designed not only to align with the Company’s fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness
and equity, but also to support the Company’s corporate strategy, as a signiﬁcant contributor to competitive advantage.
A cohesive reward structure with a timely pay review process, consistently applied to all employees, with links to corporate
performance is seen as critical in ensuring all employees can associate with, and are focused on, the attainment of the
Company’s strategic goals. Accordingly the remuneration package for the Executive Directors is normally reviewed annually.
Where an Executive Director’s responsibilities change during the course of a year, the Committee will consider whether a
review is appropriate outside of the annual process.
Executive remuneration reviews are based upon the following principles:
• Total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reﬂect the competitive market in which the Company operates, and
to provide a fair and attractive remuneration package.
• Reward elements should be designed to reinforce the link between performance and reward. The majority of the total
remuneration package should be linked to the achievement of appropriate performance targets.
• Executive Directors’ incentives should be aligned with the interests of shareholders. This is achieved through setting
performance targets to reward increase in shareholder value and through the Committee’s policy to encourage
shareholding by Executive Directors.
How the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy relates to the wider Group
The remuneration policy set out within this report provides an overview of the structure that operates for the senior
executives in the Group. Employees below executive level have a lower proportion of their total remuneration made up of
incentive-based remuneration, with remuneration driven by market comparators and the impact of the role of the employee
in question. Long-term incentives are reserved for those judged as having the greatest potential to inﬂuence the Group’s
earnings growth and share price performance. While the Remuneration Committee considers pay and conditions across the
workforce when reviewing and setting the Executive Director remuneration policy, the Committee does not consult with
employees on this matter at the current time.
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Committee takes an active interest in shareholder views on our remuneration policy and is mindful of the views of
shareholders and other stakeholders.
Directors’ remuneration policy
The table below summarises the components of reward for Executive Directors of James Fisher and Sons plc that will
govern the Company’s intentions as regards future payments. The remuneration policy (Policy) set out in this report was
approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 30 April 2015 and, it is intended that it will continue to apply until the 2018
AGM. Any commitments made by the Company prior to the approval and implementation of the Policy which were
consistent with the policy in force at the time, can be honoured, even if they would not be consistent with the Policy
prevailing when the commitment is fulﬁlled.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base Salary Designed to attract retain,
motivate and reward the
necessary high calibre of
individuals to the Board.
Base salaries are a ﬁxed annual sum
normally effective 1 January and
payable monthly in cash.
Salaries are reviewed each year
normally effective 1 January and
recognising the individual’s
performance and experience,
developments in the relevant
employment market and having
regard to the Group’s performance
as well as comparing each Executive
Director’s base salary to market
data.
No prescribed maximum
salary or salary increase.
Salaries are set for each
Executive Director within a
range around the market
median for similar positions
in appropriate comparator
companies.
The Committee is also
guided by the general
increase for the employee
population although
increases may be higher or
lower than this to
recognise, for example, an
increase in the scale, scope
or responsibility of an
individual.
Not applicable.
Pensions To offer competitive
retirement beneﬁts.
Executive Directors are eligible to
join the Group’s deﬁned contribution
scheme, receive a company
contribution into a personal pension
scheme or be paid a cash
supplement in lieu of pension.
Up to a maximum of 15%
of base salary.
Not applicable.
Beneﬁts To offer competitive beneﬁts. Provision of a company car or cash
alternative, life assurance and
healthcare insurance. Other beneﬁts
may be provided where appropriate.
These beneﬁts do not form part of
pensionable earnings.
No prescribed maximum. Not applicable.
Annual bonus To incentivise and reward the
Executive Directors to deliver
annual ﬁnancial and
operational targets.
Payable on the achievement of
ﬁnancial and personal objectives and
non-pensionable. The ﬁrst 70% of
salary payable in cash. Bonus in
excess of 70% of salary is subject to
deferral into shares, normally for a
period of 3 years.
Dividend equivalent payments may
be awarded (in cash or shares).
The cash and deferred elements of
bonuses are subject to provisions
which enable the Committee to
recover the cash paid (clawback) or
to lapse the associated deferred
shares (malus) in the event of:
(i) misstatement of results for the
ﬁnancial year to which the bonus
relates, or
(ii) an error in determining the cash
bonus or the number of shares
comprising a deferred share award,
within 3 years of the payment of the
cash bonus, or
(iii) gross misconduct.
Up to 100% of base salary. Majority of the bonus
potential is based on a
ﬁnancial target derived
from the annual plan;
Minority of the bonus
potential is based on
individual achievement
and personal
objectives. Notes:
(1) The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus reﬂect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be
appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of ﬁnancial and personal objectives.
(2) TSR and EPS performance conditions are selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term
returns to shareholders and the Group’s ﬁnancial growth and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-
term value to shareholders. The TSR performance condition is monitored by an independent advisor whilst EPS growth is derived from the
audited ﬁnancial statements.
(3) The Committee operates its share plans in accordance with the plan rules and the Listing Rules and the Committee, consistent with market
practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans (e.g. treatment of awards for leavers,
change of control, adjustments to performance targets).
(4) Consistent with HMRC legislation, the all-employee arrangement does not have performance conditions.
(5) In approving the Directors’ remuneration policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any past commitments entered into with current
or former Directors including the vesting of share awards granted in the past.
Potential value of 2016 remuneration package for Executive Directors
In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions have been made:
(1) Minimum performance is based on ﬁxed pay only (comprising basic salary and pension from 1 January 2016 and the
estimated value of pension and beneﬁts for 2016);
(2) Target performance is based on ﬁxed pay plus 50% of the maximum values used for the Company’s incentive
arrangements;
£0
Fixed Element Short-Term Variable : Cash Bonus Long-Term Variable : LTIP  
£1,455,569
Maximum
Target
Minimum
Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer  
£500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000
48%
32%
21%
27%
31%
41%
£973,507
£491,444
£0
Maximum
Target
Minimum
Group Finance Director
  
Fixed Element Short-Term Variable : Cash Bonus   Long-Term Variable : LTIP
£200,000 £400,000 £600,000 £800,000 £1,000,000
48%
32%
21%
27%
31%
41% £982,412
£659,087
£335,762
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
LTIP To align the interests of the
Executive Directors with the
Group’s long-term
performance, strategy and
the interests of shareholders.
Annual grant of share awards.
Non-pensionable.
Dividend equivalent payments may
be awarded (in cash or shares).
LTIP awards are subject to clawback
or malus in the event of:
(i) misstatement of results; or
(ii) an error in determining the share
award, or
(iii) gross misconduct.
Up to 200% of base salary.
Awards above 125% will be
subject to stretch targets.
Sliding scale relative to
EPS and/or TSR
growth targets.
25% of an award vests
at threshold increasing
to 100% vesting at
maximum. 
Share ownership To ensure alignment between
the interests of Executive
Directors and shareholders.
Executive Directors are required to
retain half of the post-tax shares
vesting under the LTIP until the
guidelines are met.
200% of base salary for the
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.
100% of base salary for
other Executive Directors.
Not applicable.
Sharesave
(previously SRSOS)
To encourage share
ownership and align the
interests of all-employees and
shareholders.
An all-employee share plan. As per prevailing HMRC
limits.
Not applicable.
Non-Executive
Directors
To provide fees to reﬂect the
time commitment and
responsibilities of each role in
line with those provided by
similarly sized companies.
Fixed annual fee, paid quarterly in
cash reviewed annually; Committee
determines the Chairman’s fees.
The Chairman and Executive
Directors determine fees for the
other Non-Executive Directors.
No prescribed maximum
fee or fee increase although
aggregate fees are limited
by the Company’s Articles
of Association.
The Board/Committee is
guided by market rates,
time commitments and
responsibility levels.
Not applicable. (3) Maximum performance is based on: (a) a maximum annual bonus of 100% of base salary; and (b) an LTIP award of
125% of basic salary (presented at face value);
(4) No share price appreciation or dividend reinvestment has been assumed.
Approach to recruitment
New Executive Directors will be appointed on remuneration packages with the same structure and elements set out in the
Directors’ remuneration policy table. On-going incentive pay will be limited to:
• Maximum annual bonus of 100% of salary;
• Up to 200% of salary LTIP award; and
• Participation in the Sharesave.
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional cash or share-based elements to replace deferred or
incentive pay forfeited by an executive when leaving a previous employer. It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these
awards would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments as soon as practicable following the appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out
according to its original terms. In addition, any other on-going remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may
continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and
incidental expenses as appropriate.
Loss of ofﬁce
The Committee has considered remuneration for Executive Directors leaving the Company and is committed to applying a
consistent and equitable approach to ensure the Company is equitable but pays no more than necessary. The loss of ofﬁce
policy is in line with market practice and will be dependent on whether deemed a ‘good leaver’ or ‘bad leaver’. The ‘good
leaver’ policy includes:
• payment in lieu of notice equal to one year’s basic salary or, if termination is part way through the notice period, the
amount of salary relating to any unexpired notice to the date of termination. There is an obligation on Directors to
mitigate any loss which they may suffer if the Company terminates their service contract;
• bonus payments for the period worked may be made, subject to the original performance targets, at the discretion of
the Committee. Any such payments would be made on the normal payment date;
• vesting of share scheme awards is not automatic and the Committee retains the discretion to prevent awards from
lapsing depending on the circumstances of the departure and the best interests of the Company. Awards which do not
lapse on cessation of employment may either vest at that time or on the normal vesting date. These awards will usually
be subject to time pro-rating to reﬂect the unexpired portion of the performance period concerned. Awards that are
subject to performance conditions will usually only vest to the extent that these conditions are satisﬁed; and
• Executive Directors will also be entitled to a payment in respect of accrued but untaken annual holiday entitlements on
termination.
‘Good leaver’ reasons are death, injury, illness or disability, redundancy, retirement, transfer of business resulting in cessation
of the individual’s employment within the Group or change of control. No compensation is paid for summary dismissal, save
for any statutory entitlements.
Service contracts
It is the Board’s policy that Executive Directors are employed on contracts subject to no more than 12 months’ notice from
either side. The Board recognises however that it may be necessary in the case of new executive appointments to offer an
initial longer notice period, which would subsequently reduce to 12 months after the expiry of the initial period. The service
agreements do not have a ﬁxed term. If it becomes necessary to consider termination of a service contract, the Committee
will have regard to all the circumstances of the case, including mitigation, when determining any compensation to be paid.
Details of the current service contracts are as follows:
Contract Date Notice Period
Nick Henry 1 December 2006 12 months
Stuart Kilpatrick 1 July 2010 12 months
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-Executive Directors of other companies, provided the appointment is
ﬁrst approved by the Remuneration and Nominations Committees. Directors are allowed to retain their fees from such
appointments. During the period the Executive Directors held no such appointments.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but have a letter of appointment setting out their terms and
conditions. Non-Executive Directors are appointed each year for up to 12 months and are entitled to one month’s prior
written notice of early termination for which no compensation is payable. Details of the letters are set out below:
Date of appointment Letter of appointment
Charles Rice 1 April 2004 1 January 2016
Malcolm Paul 1 February 2011 1 January 2016
Aedamar Comiskey 1 November 2014 1 January 2016
David Moorhouse 1 August 2013 1 January 2016
Michael Salter 1 August 2013 1 January 2016
Chairman
Fifty per cent of the fee paid to Charles Rice, net of deductions, is used to buy ordinary shares in the Company and these
shares must be held throughout his period in ofﬁce. The shares are purchased in accordance with a trading plan agreed with
Investec Bank plc dated 7 March 2013.
38 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration
Remuneration Committee
The Committee was chaired by Malcolm Paul during 2015. The Committee also comprised three other independent Non-
Executive Directors: Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee members have no personal ﬁnancial interest other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided. They
have no conﬂicts of interest arising from cross-directorships with the Executive Directors, nor from being involved in the day-
to-day business of the Company.
The Committee operates under clear written terms of reference and conﬁrms that its constitution and operation comply with
the provisions of section of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to directors’ remuneration policy and
practice and that it has applied the Code throughout the year. The Committee’s terms of reference include:
• to determine and agree with the Board the framework and policy for Executive Directors and senior managers;
• to review the appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy;
• to agree the measures and targets for any performance related bonus and share schemes of the Executive Directors;
• to determine within the terms of the policy the total individual remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
The Committee met three times during the year and details of attendance at Committee meetings are set out on page 29.
During the year the Committee has considered the appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy, the Executive
Directors’ remuneration packages, including base salaries, the grant of share-based incentive awards, the vesting of share-
based incentive awards subject to performance conditions being met and the amount and basis of performance related
bonuses. Charles Rice also attended Committee meetings, when invited by the chairman of the Committee, and was
consulted on matters relating to the Executive Directors who reported to him.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
New Bridge Street is the principal independent adviser to the Committee. During the year the Committee reviewed market
information on Directors’ remuneration published by New Bridge Street and a number of other sources and received advice
from New Bridge Street on all matters under consideration by the Committee including remuneration, updates on best
practice, legislative requirements and market practice. The Committee is satisﬁed that the advice provided on remuneration
is objective and independent. New Bridge Street’s fees for this work amounted to £21,250.
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2016
Executive Directors
Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2016 is as set out in the policy section. No base salary, beneﬁt or pension increases
have been awarded. The maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary. The proposed ﬁnancial target levels have
been set to be challenging and appropriately demanding. The targets are commercially sensitive but it is envisaged that
disclosure of the targets and performance against targets will be set out in the 2016 remuneration report.
Awards under the 2015 LTIP will be granted to the Executive Directors over shares worth up to 125% of base salary with
70% of the award based on EPS growth targets and 30% based on relative TSR targets. The performance period for the
EPS element of the award will run for three years from 1 January 2016 and for the TSR element (measured against the
constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts), the performance period will be three years from the date of
award. 
Non-Executive Directors 
There is no change to Non-Executive Directors’ fees for 2016 which are as follows:
2016 2015
££
Chairman 231,650 231,650
Other Non-Executive Director fees:
Basic fee 49,900 49,900
Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000
Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Remuneration Committee 5,000 5,000
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Information subject to audit
Total remuneration earned by the Executive Directors
Nick Henry Stuart Kilpatrick
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Base salary 429 410 287 275
Beneﬁts 14 14 11 11
Pension 49 47 37 36
Bonus in cash 97 287 65 193
Short-term remuneration 589 758 400 515
LTIP – performance 281 211 191 141
LTIP – share appreciation 37 216 25 144
LTIP – total 318 427 216 285
ESOS – 301 – 201
Total remuneration 907 1,486 616 1,001
Beneﬁts
2015 2014
Cash Cash 
allowance Medical allowance Medical 
in lieu of car insurance Total in lieu of car insurance Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Nick Henry 13 1 14 13 1 14
Stuart Kilpatrick 10 1 11 10 1 11
23 2 25 23 2 25
Pensions
Pension contributions equivalent to up to 15% of base salary may be paid into personal pension plans, the Company
pension scheme or taken as a separate cash allowance, subject to income tax.
2015 2014
Paid as  Paid as 
Paid as pension Paid as pension 
cash allowance contribution Total cash allowance contribution Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Nick Henry 49 – 49 47 – 47
Stuart Kilpatrick –3737 –3636
49 37 86 47 36 83
40 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual bonus awards for 2015
The maximum annual bonus for Executive Directors was 100% of base salary, with 70% based on ﬁnancial objectives and
30% based on individual achievement and personal objectives. Details of the actual performance against the targets are as
follows:
(i) Financial objectives
Performance measure Performance target Assessment against targets
Adjusted proﬁt before tax Growth of 4% - 10% Not achieved
(ii) Personal objectives
Personal objectives 
Nick Henry – Set, communicate and lead key management priorities;
– Deliver balanced growth via organic development and acquisitions;
– Develop management structure including succession planning;
– Monitor and manage Group risk proﬁle;
– Strengthen management training and graduate development programmes.
Stuart Kilpatrick – Strengthen and improve quality of ﬁnancial reporting;
– Improve internal audit process and risk management;
– Manage M&A process and due diligence;
– Develop and maintain good relationships with banks, advisors and investors.
Alongside the headline objectives noted above, each executive is given speciﬁc objectives for the year. In 2015 these
included: the timely restructuring of our Offshore Oil businesses; the merger of our subsea subsidiaries to form James Fisher
Subsea Services; the merger of our Strainstall Monitoring and Testconsult businesses to form James Fisher Testing Services;
certain management succession initiatives; improvement initiatives in Angola and other conﬁdential items. Both Executive
Directors were assessed to have performed well against these objectives however, in the light of the difﬁcult market
conditions and the impact that these have had on the Group, the Committee decided to award 75% of the personal
objectives element of the bonus. 
Vesting of 2013 LTIP awards
The LTIP values included in the table below relate to awards granted on 8 April 2013 which vest on 8 April 2016 dependent
on EPS performance over the three year period ended 31 December 2015. Under the performance target which uses a
sliding scale, one third of the award vests where growth of diluted earnings per share of RPI plus 9% is achieved over the
three year performance period, to full vesting where growth of RPI plus 18% is achieved.
EPS at 
31 December Threshold Maximum 
Performance target Base EPS 2015 EPS growth RPI +9% RPI +18%
Underlying diluted EPS 55.1 68.5 24.3% 14.4% 23.4%
As a result of meeting the above performance conditions, the gross value of LTIPs that will vest on 8 April 2016 are as
follows:
Share
Share price at Share price at Performance appreciation
date of grant
(3)
31 December Proportion Shares element
(1)
element
(2)
Total
2015
(3)
vesting vested £000 £000 £000
Nick Henry 1,034p 1,168p 100% 27,205 281 37 318
Stuart Kilpatrick 1,034p 1,168p 100% 18,500 191 25 216
(1) The performance element represents the face value of awards that vested.
(2) The share appreciation element represents the value due to the change in share price from the date of award to 31 December 2015.
(3) The share price at grant is based on a ten day average immediately prior to the date of grant and the share price at 31 December 2015 is based
on a three month average.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Lapse of 2013 ESOS awards
The ESOS awards granted on 9 April 2013, whereby vesting is based on three year relative TSR from grant as measured
against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) are expected to lapse on 9 April 2016 based on a
calculation as at 31 December 2015 which showed below median performance. 
TSR at 
31 December Upper 
Performance target 2015 Median quartile Vesting
TSR 35.6% 46.5% 89.7% 0%
The 2013 ESOS options that are expected to lapse on 9 April 2016 are as follows:
Share price at 
Share price at 31 December Shares
date of grant
(1)
2015 granted
Nick Henry 1,028p 1,168p 36,490
Stuart Kilpatrick 1,028p 1,168p 24,813
(1) The share price at grant is based on a three day average immediately prior to the date of grant.
Share awards granted in 2015
Proportion Maximum Share price Exercise
of salary shares awarded at grant price at grant
LTIPs granted on 5 June 2015
Nick Henry 125% 45,433 1,308p –
Stuart Kilpatrick 125% 30,473 1,308p –
Vesting of the 2015 LTIP award is subject to achievement of performance targets over a three year period with 70% of the
award based on EPS targets and 30% based on TSR targets. EPS target performance is measured over the three year
period ending on 31 December 2017. The EPS element of the award vests if EPS growth at least equals the RPI increase
over the period plus 9%. At the threshold level, 25% of the EPS element of the award will vest. Full vesting is achieved if EPS
growth is greater than or equal to 18% in excess of the RPI increase over the vesting period. The TSR element of the award
is subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts, over the three year
period from 6 April 2015. If at the end of the period the Company ranks in the upper quartile, all of the TSR element of the
award will vest. If the ranking is at median level, 25% of TSR element of the award will vest. No element of the TSR part of
the award will vest for performance below the median. For intermediate ranking, a proportionate part of each award will vest
reducing on a straight-line basis. Any part of the award that does not vest at the end of a performance period will lapse
immediately.
42 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued Aligning pay with performance (unaudited)
The following graph shows the total shareholder return compared to the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Small Cap indices
excluding investment trusts.
Growth in the value of £100 holding over seven years 
Remuneration of highest paid Executive Director compared with growth in underlying diluted
earnings per share
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Annual change in underlying 
diluted EPS (pence) (7)% 13% 18% 15% 16% 13% 5%
Salary, pensions and beneﬁts (£000) 492 471 439 355 399 381 380
Annual performance bonus (£000) 97 287 263 210 268 256 77
Short-term remuneration (£000) 589 758 702 565 667 637 457
Share schemes (£000) 318 728 691 781 534 124 90
CEO total remuneration (£000) 907 1,486 1,393 1,346 1,201 761 547
Actual bonus as a percentage of 
the maximum 23% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 30%
LTIP vesting as a percentage of 
the maximum 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
ESOS vesting as a percentage of 
the maximum – 100% 100% 100% 40% – 60%
2009 – 2011 represent the remuneration of former Executive Chairman, Tim Harris. 2012 – 2015 represent Nick Henry’s
remuneration.
Change in CEO’s pay compared to James Fisher employees
The table below shows the percentage year on year change in salary, beneﬁts and annual bonus earned between the year
ended 31 December 2014 and the year ended 31 December 2015 for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer compared to the average
increase of the Group’s UK employees. The Committee chose the Group’s UK employees for pay comparison with the Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer as the most meaningful comparator group.
Total shareholder return
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
31 Dec 08
The above graph shows James Fisher and Sons plc’s total shareholder return over the 7 years to 31 December 2015 compared to the total shareholder 
return for the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index. These Indices show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends. The other points 
plotted are the total shareholder return values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 15 31 Dec 14
James Fisher and Sons plc FTSE 250 FTSE Small Cap
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beneﬁts 
(including Annual 
Salary pension) bonus
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 4.5% 3.0% (66%)
Average increase for the Group’s UK employees 3.0% 3.0% –
Relative importance of remuneration (unaudited)
2015 2014 Change
£m £m £m
Total employee remuneration 110 111 (1)
Total dividends paid 11 10 1
Interests in shares
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015, including any interests in
share options and shares provisionally awarded under the LTIP , ESOS and Sharesave are as follows:
Vested but 
unexercised Exercised 
share options during the 
Beneﬁcial LTIP ESOS Sharesave ESOS year
Number Number Number Number Number Number
Charles Rice 22,016–––––
Nick Henry 158,917 93,294 65,589 1,750 227,739 –
Stuart Kilpatrick 28,210 62,827 44,330 – 65,082 –
Malcolm Paul 5,000–––––
Executive Directors’ interest in options over shares
At Date from 
31 December 2015 Exercise which Expiry 
Number price exercisable date
Nick Henry 29,615 468p 23.03.09 23.03.16
17,647 596p 02.04.10 02.04.17
26,314 354p 20.03.12 20.03.19
56,753 410p 19.03.13 19.03.20
49,105 522p 30.03.14 30.03.21
48,305 567p 09.04.15 09.03.22
1,750 602p 01.06.17 30.11.17
36,490 1,028p 09.04.16 09.04.23
29,099 1,049p 10.04.17 10.04.24
295,078
Stuart Kilpatrick 32,808 522p 30.03.14 30.03.21
32,274 567p 09.03.15 09.03.22
24,813 1,028p 09.04.16 09.04.23
19,517 1,409p 10.04.17 10.04.24
109,412
Total 404,490
All options relate to the 2005 ESOS scheme other than 1,750 share options held by Nick Henry under the Sharesave scheme. The 2005 ESOS
expired in April 2015 and was not renewed. The last awards were made on 10 April 2014.
There were no options exercised during the year and therefore no gains made (2014: £112,382). The interest of the Directors’ options over ordinary
shares under the ESOS and Sharesave have not changed since the year end.
44 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ remuneration report continued Executive Directors’ interest in LTIP share awards 
Granted Vesting 
1 January during during 31 December 
2015 year year 2015 
Number Number Number Number Vesting Date
Nick Henry 36,340 – (36,340) – 6 April 2015
27,205 – – 27,205 8 April 2016
20,656 – – 20,656 6 April 2017
– 45,433 – 45,433 6 April 2018
84,201 45,433 (36,340) 93,294
Stuart Kilpatrick 24,280 – (24,280) – 6 April 2015
18,500 – – 18,500 8 April 2016
13,854 – – 13,854 6 April 2017
– 30,473 – 30,473 6 April 2018
56,634 30,473 (24,280) 62,827
Total 140,835 75,906 (60,620) 156,121
The scheme is unapproved for HM Revenue and Customs purposes. As at 1 March 2016, being the last practical date prior to the publication of this
report, there were no changes to the Executive Directors’ interest in LTIP share awards.
Sourcing of shares and dilution
The Remuneration Committee has regard to the limits on dilution advised by the Investment Association and contained in the
relevant share plan rules and reviews the number of shares committed and headroom available under share incentive
schemes in accordance with these dilution limits.
On vesting, the awards of shares under the LTIP are satisﬁed by the shares held by the James Fisher and Sons plc
Employee Share Trust (Trust). During the year the Trust purchased 120,000 ordinary shares on the open market (2014:
150,000) and at 31 December 2015 the Trust held 148,275 (2014: 153,192) ordinary shares. During the year 65,118 shares
were issued by the Company to satisfy obligations under the ESOS scheme.
Share price during the ﬁnancial year
The middle market price of one ordinary share in the Company during the ﬁnancial year ranged from 914p to 1,436p and at
31 December 2015 was 1,168p.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Total fees
2015 2014
£000 £000
Charles Rice 232 226
Malcolm Paul 65 61
Aedamar Comiskey – appointed on 1 November 2014 50 8
Michael Everard – retired 30 April 2014 – 16
David Moorhouse 50 48
Michael Salter 50 48
Shareholder voting
The Company is committed to on-going shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. Where there
are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors’ remuneration, the Company seeks to understand the
reasons for any such vote and will report any actions in response to it. The following table sets out actual voting in respect of
our 2014 Directors’ remuneration report at the 2015 AGM:
Votes withheld 
Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast (abstentions)
To approve the remuneration policy report 38,714,064 98.3 660,835 1.7 39,374,899 794,861
To approve the Directors’ remuneration 
report 39,107,208 99.2 309,151 0.8 39,416,359 753,401
Malcolm Paul
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
1 March 2016
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc is a public limited company registered in England with the registered number 211475 and has its
registered ofﬁce is at Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR. The Annual Report and Accounts
have been drawn up and presented in accordance with UK Company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection
with the report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Principal activities, development and performance
The Strategic report on pages 1 to 23 includes a description and review of the Group’s activities and provides an indication
of the likely future trends and factors that might affect the Group’s development and performance. The report also details the
principal risks facing the Company and the Group’s approach to mitigating such risks.
The Strategic report together with Board of Directors, Corporate governance report, the Audit Committee report and the
Directors’ remuneration report all form part of the Directors’ report. The Directors’ report and Strategic report comprises the
‘management report’ for the purposes of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company will be held at 11.00 am on 28 April 2016 at the Abbey House Hotel,
Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA13 0PA. The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 99 to 104. 
Substantial shareholders
At 23 February 2016 the Company had been notiﬁed of the following interests of 3% or more of the voting rights in its issued
share capital:
Ordinary Shares Preference Shares
Shareholder Number % Number %
Rowland Frederick Hart Jackson 8,803,093 17.55 ––
(non-beneﬁcial)
Schroder Investment Management 5,106,592 10.18 ––
Therapia Investments Limited 3,632,220 7.24 100,000 100.00
Aberdeen Asset Management Limited 3,332,352 6.64 ––
Montanaro Investment Managers 2,447,600 4.88 ––
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited 2,023,534 4.03 ––
25,345,391 50.52 100,000 100.00
Total number of shares in issue 50,164,133 100.00 100,000 100.00
Results and dividends
The Group’s proﬁt after tax for the ﬁnancial year was £40.7m (2014: £40.5m). The results are shown fully in the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements on pages 55 to 58 and summarised in the Financial review on pages 8 and 9. The Directors recommend
a ﬁnal dividend of 16.0p per share (2014: 14.9p) making a total dividend of 23.8p per share for the year (2014: 22.0p). If
approved, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 6 May 2016 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register on 8 April 2016.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no post balance sheet events since 31 December 2015. 
Share capital
The structure and details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 19 on page 71.
46 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ report Ordinary shares
The Company’s issued ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects. Subject to rights attaching to existing
shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by advisory resolution determine, or if
the Company has not so determined, as the Directors may determine. In addition to those rights conferred by law the
holders of ordinary shares of 25p each are entitled to receive dividends when declared, the Company’s Reports and
Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. These
rights and obligations are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association (Articles). Other than those speciﬁc provisions set
out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or on the exercise of voting
rights attached to them except that:
• certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws and
market requirements relating to close periods); and
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain employees of the Company require the
approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s shares.
Preference shares
The 3.5% cumulative preference shares of £1 each carry a ﬁxed cumulative dividend of 3.5% per annum, payable in priority
to any dividend on the ordinary shares and payable half yearly in arrears on 30 June and 31 December. The preference
shares carry one vote for every £1 in nominal amount. On a winding up of the Company the preference shareholders have a
right to receive, in preference to payments to ordinary shareholders, repayment of the capital paid up on such shares plus
any accrued dividend.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of
securities or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Employee Share Trust 
As at 31 December 2015, the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Trust, held 148,275 ordinary shares (2014:
153,192) of the Company in trust against future Company obligations for share incentive schemes referred to in this report.
During the year, the Trust purchased 120,000 ordinary shares on the open market (2014: 150,000). The rights attaching to
these shares are controlled by independent trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
Powers of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Company’s Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and the directions given by
the Company in general meeting. The Directors are authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, to dis-apply statutory
pre-emption rights and to make market purchases of the Company’s shares. The Directors will be seeking to renew the
authorities granted to them in prior years at the forthcoming AGM. Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as
treasury shares.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM held on 30 April 2015, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 2,504,951 of its ordinary shares until
the date of its next AGM. No purchases were made during the year by the Company.
Directors
The biographical details together with their skills and experience of our Directors who served on the Board for the ﬁnancial
year ended 31 December 2015 are set out on page 24.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ interests
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors’ in the share capital of the Company are:
Holdings of ordinary
shares of 25p each
At 31 December At 31 December
2015 2014
Number Number
Charles Rice 22,016 16,781
Nick Henry 158,917 139,657
Stuart Kilpatrick 28,210 15,289
Malcolm Paul 5,000 5,000
(1) Between 31 December 2015 and 1 March 2016, there were no changes to the Directors’ shareholdings;
(2) No Director has an interest in the preference shares of the Company, or in the shares of any subsidiary or associated undertaking.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board
or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to
seek re-election at a general meeting. In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to ﬁll a vacancy or as an additional
Director, provided that the individual retires or at the next AGM. A Director may be removed by the Company in certain
circumstances set out in the Articles (for example bankruptcy or resignation), or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in
general meeting. Our Articles provide that any Director who has held ofﬁce for more than three years since his last
appointment must offer himself or herself up for re-election at the AGM and at least one-third of the Board is subject to
re-election at each AGM. However, having regard to the recommendation contained in the Code that all Directors should be
subject to annual election by shareholders, all of our Directors will retire at the 2015 AGM and stand for re-election.
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance
The Company maintains directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance for the Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company and its
subsidiaries and, to the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ may be granted
indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Company’s Articles. Copies of the Company’s Articles may be obtained from the
Company Secretary and are available for inspection at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours.
Directors’ conﬂict of interest
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where a direct or indirect conﬂict of interest may occur.
The Board has adopted established procedures to address the management of any potential and actual conﬂicts of interest. 
Stuart Kilpatrick, Group Finance Director, is a trustee of the Group’s Shore Staff Pension Scheme. This role could give rise to
a situation where there is a conﬂict of interest and after due consideration, the Board approved him to act as a trustee. Were
a conﬂict to arise, Stuart Kilpatrick is required to excuse himself from participating in the relevant trustee discussion and
decision making process.
Additional information for shareholders
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. 
Employment of people with disabilities
People with disabilities are given full and fair consideration, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, when
applying for vacancies. In addition to complying with legislative requirements, the Group strives to ensure that disabled
employees are treated fairly and that their training, career development and promotion needs are met. For those employees
who become disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will provide support, whether through re-training or
re-deployment, so that they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job, or if this is not practicable,
every effort will be made to ﬁnd suitable alternative employment.
48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ report continued Employment policies
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is the Board member responsible for employee matters and he is assisted by the Group Head of
Human Resources. The Group values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and works to create an open atmosphere of
trust, honesty and respect. Harassment or discrimination, including that involving race, colour, religion, gender, age, disability,
sexual orientation or any other similarly protected status, is not acceptable. The Group is committed to providing equal
employment opportunities for all of its people and all job applicants based on abilities of the employee and the needs of the
business Group-wide. It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices and not to
discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria. Employment arrangements are intended to be fair, equitable and consistent
with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business. The Group also actively encourages the training of
its employees through participation in industry training schemes. Additionally, both in-house and external training is provided
for staff. The Group’s diversity policy is reviewed annually and approved by the Board and is available on the Company’s
website.
Employee involvement
Developing and maintaining employee engagement with the Company is important. The Group communicates with its
employees on matters of concern to them as employees and on the ﬁnancial and economic factors affecting the
performance of the Company principally through regular presentations by senior management and by means of publication
of a Company newsletter. Where decisions are being made which are likely to affect employees interests, such employees or
their representatives are consulted so that their views can be taken into account. The Group also operates a number of
option schemes and long-term incentive plans to encourage employees to participate in the ownership of the Company.
Signiﬁcant agreements – change of control
The Company is a guarantor of all of the Group’s bilateral bank facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn. 
The Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement made between James Fisher Singapore PTE Ltd. and First Response
Marine PTE Ltd. dated 17 October 2008 may terminate upon a change of control of the Company or James Fisher
Singapore PTE Ltd.
The rules of the Company’s LTIP , ESOS and Sharesave schemes set out the consequences of a change of control on the
rights of participants under those schemes. Participants are generally able to exercise their options on a change of control,
provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisﬁed.
Except as provided above, the Company is not party to any agreements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a
change of control of the Company. Furthermore there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or
employees providing for compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy
or otherwise) that arise in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Financial instruments, research and development, overseas branches
Information on the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies, including its exposure to price risk, credit risk,
liquidity risk and cash ﬂow risk can be found in note 27. The Group is committed to continue investing in research and
development. Details of the Group’s expenditure on research and development is set out in notes 4 and 13. The Group does
not have any overseas branch ofﬁces. 
Information required by UK listing rule 9.8.4
There are no disclosures to be made under listing rule 9.8.4.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, the ﬁnancial position of the
Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 23. The
Group’s primary sources of funding are bilateral facilities with a small core group of banks. These bilateral facilities totalled
£185.0m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £162.5m). A £20.0m facility expired in January 2016 and the remaining facilities fall
due for renewal over the next 5 years. Compliance with banking covenants is tested half yearly for the ratio of net debt:
EBITDA, interest cover and ﬁxed charge cover. No breaches in covenants occurred during the year.
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating cash ﬂows, with borrowings in place to fund
acquisitions and capital expenditure. The Group had £67.4m (2014: £81.4m) of undrawn committed facilities as at
31 December 2015. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance,
conﬁrm that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group uses cash ﬂow forecasts derived from budgets, forecasts and medium-term planning to identify headroom under
the covenant tests. After making enquiries and having evaluated the on-going trading of the businesses, the Directors have
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for a period considered to be at least
12 months from the date of this report. Accordingly, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Viability statement 
The Directors conﬁrm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate and to meet
its liabilities, as they fall due, for the three years ending 31 December 2018.
The assessment period has been chosen because it is consistent with the Group’s planning process whereby the Board
reviews the Group’s strategy and its detailed three year plan. This is reviewed and considered in light of the Group’s current
position and prospects together with factors that might affect the three year plan. The Board carefully assesses the
performance and prospects of each business regarding entering new markets and geographies, current and expected
growth rates, prospective new projects and the timing of such projects and the robustness of individual business
performance. 
The Group three year plan overlays a number of assumptions and sensitivities which are reviewed by the Board; this includes
a review of whether additional bank facilities will be required and available in the plan period. 
The review also considers the principal risks facing the Group as set out on page 11 and the potential impact on its business
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period. The potential consequence of the fall in world oil prices,
global economic uncertainty and the Group’s ability to mitigate the impact of any of these risks was a particular focus in
2015.
The Directors have also taken account of the diverse markets and geographies in which the Group’s businesses operate,
and their ability to react quickly to change, to help minimise the effect of the key risks effecting the Group. 
Auditor
Each Director in ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Directors’ report conﬁrms that:
• so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company ﬁnancial statements each
ﬁnancial year in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and
Parent Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent
company ﬁnancial statements on the same basis.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing each of
the Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and
the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable
them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic report, Directors’ report,
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Directors’ report continued The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement in respect of the Annual Report
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the management report which comprises the Strategic report and the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
N P Henry S C Kilpatrick
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Group Finance Director
On behalf of the Board of Directors
1 March 2016
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the ﬁnancial statements is unmodiﬁed
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 55 to 95. In our opinion:
• the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the
Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
• the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European
Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU);
• the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the ﬁnancial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were consistent with
the prior year and as follows:
Operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation
Refer to page 31 (Audit Committee report)
• The risk: The Group is multinational and is developing its operations in a number of emerging markets. Operating in these territories presents increased
contractual, operational and ﬁnancial risks due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain regulatory and legislative environments, including
legislation relating to tax. Breaches of compliance or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning for the uncertain legislation could have a signiﬁcant
effect on the results and ﬁnancial position of the Group and is one of the judgemental areas our audit is focused on. Also during the year the principal
customer of one of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries terminated its contract thereby creating uncertainty around the timing and value of settlement.
• Our response: Our audit procedures included using our own local specialists where appropriate to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to
determine provisions for legal and tax matters based on their knowledge and experience of local regulations and practices. We considered the exposure
to breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry of the Group in relation to compliance with laws and regulations and the existence and status of
any signiﬁcant legal matters. We also inspected the compliance logs and reports returned by overseas locations to identify actual and potential
noncompliance with laws and regulations, both those speciﬁc to the Group’s business and those relating to the conduct of the business generally. Where
signiﬁcant matters were identiﬁed we obtained conﬁrmations from the Group’s legal counsel. We inspected correspondence, where available, with the
local tax authorities and using our experience of local practices and court interpretations we assessed the assumptions made by the Group in arriving at
any potential tax provision and terms of relevant contracts where there are material local indirect taxes. In relation to the termination we have reviewed the
contract with the customer to determine the Group’s contractual rights, assessed the Group’s estimate of the likely ﬁnancial outcome, considered the
associated disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements and also inspected external legal advice provided to the Group. 
Accounting for acquisitions
Refer to page 31 (Audit Committee report), page 89 (accounting policies) and page 78 (ﬁnancial disclosures)
• The risk: The Group has assessed the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and estimated the fair value of contingent consideration payable. Certain
balances can be determined based on estimates and assumptions about the future performance of the acquired businesses. As there is a signiﬁcant level
of judgement involved in estimating the fair value of the intangible assets and contingent consideration, we consider this to be a signiﬁcant audit risk.
There is also risk that the Group has not appropriately re-measured the provisional acquisition accounting notably in respect of contingent considerations
payable on acquisitions made.
• Our response: We challenged the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group to derive the fair value of intangible assets. We consulted with our
valuation specialists to assist us in considering the approach taken by the Group, assessed key assumptions and obtained corroborative evidence for the
explanations provided by comparing key assumptions to market data, underlying accounting records, past performance of the acquired business, our
past experience of similar transactions and the Group’s forecasts supporting the acquisitions. We also considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the
fair value of acquired intangible assets. In addition we assessed whether trade and assets acquired in a transaction constituted a business in accordance
with the deﬁnition in IFRS 3, Business Combinations. With respect to contingent consideration our work was focused on the forecast results of
businesses acquired, which is the basis on which the estimate of contingent consideration is determined. The assumptions underlying those forecasts
were compared with historical trading performance, results since the acquisition date, the order book at year end and the Group’s planned development
of the businesses. We also assessed the Group’s recalculation of contingent consideration payable and the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in
relation to contingent consideration.
Goodwill £140.4m (2014: £114.4m)
Refer to page 31 (Audit Committee report), page 89 (accounting policy) and page 66 (ﬁnancial disclosures)
• The risk: There is a risk of irrecoverability of the Group’s goodwill balance due to varying levels of demand in certain markets. An impairment assessment
of goodwill is carried out annually by the Group by assessing the value in use of Group’s of cash generating units (CGUs) which requires signiﬁcant
assumptions about future developments. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash ﬂows, which are the basis of
the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
• Our response: In this area our audit procedures included testing the Group’s budgeting procedures and the principles and integrity of the Group’s
discounted cash ﬂow model. This included comparison of the key assumptions to external data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs
such as revenue growth, gross margin assumptions, cost inﬂation and long-term growth rates based on our knowledge of the industry. We considered
the historical accuracy of the Group’s growth assumptions and used external data and our own valuation specialists when assessing the discount rate
applied. We compared the Group’s market capitalisation to the valuation derived from the forecasts used in the impairment calculations to assess their
reasonableness. We further critically assessed the sensitivities applied by the Group. We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the
sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reﬂects the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of James Fisher and Sons plc only Revenue £437.9m (2014: £444.8m)
Refer to page 31 (Audit Committee report), page 89 (accounting policy) and page 62 (ﬁnancial disclosures)
• The risk: Where services rendered are provided through long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date, revenue is recognised in
proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to the proportion of total expected costs incurred. The level of total
expected costs to be incurred on each contract is estimated by the Group and includes certain judgements as contracts may run over a number of
accounting periods and include forecasts in relation to future costs including labour and materials which are not yet contractually agreed. Some contracts
for services allow for certain costs to be recharged to customers which requires a level of judgement to be applied as to the eligibility of such costs.
• Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the Group’s internal controls over revenue. We inspected the terms of signiﬁcant sales contracts to
assess whether they were consistent with the detailed calculations being considered. When assessing the stage of completion on contracts we agreed
amounts recognised to conﬁrmatory evidence on a sample basis. This included the agreement of actual costs incurred to invoice and the assessment of
any judgements applied in the projection of total contract costs through consideration of the Group’s historical experience of costs on similar contracts.
For individually signiﬁcant contracts we formed our own view of the nature and level of eligible recharges and compared this to the Group’s assessment.
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s revenue disclosures including the accounting policy.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group ﬁnancial statements as a whole was set at £2.0m (2014: £2.2m), determined with reference to a benchmark of Group proﬁt before
tax of £46.2m (2014: £49.2m), of which it represents 4.3% (2014: 4.5%).
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identiﬁed misstatements exceeding £0.1m (2014: £0.1m), in addition to other identiﬁed
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s 124 (2014: 107) reporting components, we subjected 46 (2014: 51) to audits for Group reporting purposes.
We conducted reviews of ﬁnancial information (including enquiry) at a further 16 (2014: 30) non-signiﬁcant components on the basis of other qualitative and
quantitative factors based on our audit judgement. These components were not individually ﬁnancially signiﬁcant enough to require an audit for Group reporting
purposes; however, they were covered in our audit scope in order to provide further coverage over the Group’s results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Group’s results:
Number Group Group proﬁt Group
of components revenue before tax total assets
Audits for Group reporting purposes 46 (2014: 51) 85% (2014: 90%) 84% (2014: 87%) 86% (2014: 87%)
Reviews of ﬁnancial information (including enquiry) 16 (2014: 30) 9% (2014: 8%) 10% (2014: 7%) 7% (2014: 9%)
Total 62 (2014: 81) 94% (2014: 98%) 94% (2014: 94%) 93% (2014: 96%)
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the signiﬁcant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to
be reported back. The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from £0.1m to £0.5m (2014: £0.2m to £1.0m), having regard to
the mix of size and risk proﬁle of the Group across the components. The work on 29 (2014: 48) of the 62 (2014: 81) components was performed by component
auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
Telephone conferences were held with these component auditors at the locations which were not audited directly by the Group audit team. At these meetings,
the ﬁndings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the
component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodiﬁed
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent
with the ﬁnancial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on page 28 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to
ﬁnancial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ statement of viability on page 50, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors’ assessment and
expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2018; or 
• the disclosures in note 1 of the ﬁnancial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by
exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identiﬁed other information in the
annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the ﬁnancial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise
misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identiﬁed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that they consider that the
Annual Report and ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not
visited by us; or
• the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made;
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statements, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
• the part of the Corporate governance report on page 25 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on pages 50 and 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial
statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements is provided on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to
important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and
the basis of our opinions.
David Bills (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
1 St Peters Square
Manchester
M2 3AE
2 March 2016
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Independent auditor’s report continued Year ended Year ended
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Before separately Separately Before separately Separately
disclosed disclosed disclosed disclosed
items items Total items items Total
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Group revenue 4 437,930 - 437,930 444,799 - 444,799
Cost of sales (307,208) - (307,208) (307,290) - (307,290)
Gross proﬁt 130,722 - 130,722 137,509 - 137,509
Administrative expenses (85,219) - (85,219) (86,158) - (86,158)
Share of post tax results of joint ventures 15 87 - 87 186 - 186
Acquisition related income and (expense) 5 - 5,926 5,926 - 2,381 2,381
Operating proﬁt 4 45,590 5,926 51,516 51,537 2,381 53,918
Loss on sale of business 5 - (959) (959) -- -
Net ﬁnance expense 7 (4,343) - (4,343) (4,684) - (4,684)
Proﬁt before taxation 41,247 4,967 46,214 46,853 2,381 49,234
Income tax 8 (5,903) 396 (5,507) (8,994) 243 (8,751)
Proﬁt for the year 35,344 5,363 40,707 37,859 2,624 40,483
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 34,522 5,363 39,885 37,447 2,624 40,071
Non-controlling interests 822 - 822 412 - 412
35,344 5,363 40,707 37,859 2,624 40,483
Earnings per share pence pence
Basic 10 79.7 80.2
Diluted 10 79.2 79.2
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2015 2014
Notes £000 £000
Proﬁt for the year 40,707 40,483
Items that will not be classiﬁed to the income statement
Remeasurement loss on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 22 (8,596) (2,126)
Actuarial gain in deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 22 813 -
Deferred tax on items that will not be reclassiﬁed 1,635 316
(6,148) (1,810)
Items that may be reclassiﬁed to the income statement
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (4,587) (4,372)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges 27 836 (2,367)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges in joint ventures 15 354 (133)
Net changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges transferred to income statement 77 (35)
Deferred tax on items that may be reclassiﬁed 8 (220) 450
(3,540) (6,457)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax (9,688) (8,267)
Total comprehensive income for the year 31,019 32,216
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 30,067 31,761
Non-controlling interests 952 455
31,019 32,216
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
James Fisher and Sons plc
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 140,414 114,378 - -
Other intangible assets 13 16,041 12,752 - -
Property, plant and equipment 14 127,594 116,629 6,333 6,320
Investment in joint ventures 15 6,250 9,147 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 15 - - 302,594 278,000
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets 16 1,478 1,478 1,368 1,368
Deferred tax assets 9 3,189 2,694 4,277 5,207
294,966 257,078 314,572 290,895
Current assets
Inventories 17 47,436 40,656 - -
Trade and other receivables 18 141,734 117,644 8,252 4,673
Corporate tax receivable - - - 3,123
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 27 2 49 2 49
Cash and short-term deposits 22,962 17,719 7,629 402
212,134 176,068 15,883 8,247
Total assets 507,100 433,146 330,455 299,142
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 19 12,541 12,525 12,541 12,525
Share premium 25,525 25,238 25,525 25,238
Treasury shares (1,613) (1,988) (1,613) (1,988)
Other reserves 20 (11,354) (7,684) (2,290) (3,043)
Retained earnings 192,908 174,663 143,254 120,948
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 218,007 202,754 177,417 153,680
Non-controlling interests 2,388 1,436 - -
Total equity 220,395 204,190 177,417 153,680
Non-current liabilities
Other liabilities 21 8,728 9,585 - -
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 22 26,956 21,806 19,090 19,133
Cumulative preference shares 19 100 100 100 100
Loans and borrowings 25 116,645 79,899 116,550 79,865
Deferred tax liabilities 9 153 545 - -
152,582 111,935 135,740 99,098
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 125,381 105,991 12,633 20,079
Current tax 7,190 8,635 336 -
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 27 1,446 2,341 1,448 2,341
Loans and borrowings 25 106 54 2,881 23,944
134,123 117,021 17,298 46,364
Total liabilities 286,705 228,956 153,038 145,462
Total equity and liabilities 507,100 433,146 330,455 299,142
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
N P Henry
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Company number 211475
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Consolidated and Company statement of ﬁnancial position
at 31 December 2015 Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
Proﬁt before tax 46,214 49,234 39,388 30,250
Adjustments to reconcile proﬁt before tax to
net cash ﬂows
Depreciation and amortisation 24,442 22,069 850 744
Acquisition costs charged 1,355 700 - -
Proﬁt on sale of property, plant and equipment (417) (1,101) - -
Loss on sale of business 959 - - -
Adjustment to provision for contingent consideration (8,491) (4,100) - -
Net ﬁnance expense 4,343 4,684 692 464
Share of post tax results of joint ventures (87) (186) - -
Share based compensation 214 1,226 (45) 838
Increase in trade and other receivables (19,911) (17,525) (1,193) (2,164)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (6,073) 7,092 - -
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 3,095 (1,422) (7,684) 3,426
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension cash contributions less
service cost (3,494) (4,676) (2,316) (2,466)
Cash generated from operations 42,149 55,995 29,692 31,092
Cash outﬂow from acquisition costs (1,325) (700) - -
Income tax (payments)/receipts (8,828) (5,610) 2,661 1,565
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 31,996 49,685 32,353 32,657
Investing activities
Dividends from joint venture undertakings 1,089 641 - -
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2,120 5,841 - -
Finance income 236 197 3,197 3,453
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 24 (25,933) (11,337) (2,351) -
Proceeds from the sale of business 88 - - -
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (19,597) (32,184) (863) (866)
Development expenditure (2,704) (2,233) - -
Cash ﬂows used in investing activities (44,701) (39,075) 32,336 35,244
Financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 303 - 303 -
Finance costs (3,603) (3,694) (3,413) (4,337)
Net loans advanced to subsidiaries - - (21,984) (29,347)
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share
Ownership Trust (2,590) (2,936) (4,036) (2,936)
Capital element of ﬁnance lease repayments 26 (102) (546) - -
Proceeds from other non-current borrowings 26 35,807 1,720 15,423 8,992
Dividends paid (11,364) (10,331) (11,364) (10,331)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities 18,451 (15,787) (25,071) (37,959)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 26 5,745 (5,177) 7,265 (2,715)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 17,719 23,982 402 2,846
Net foreign exchange differences (502) (1,086) (38) 271
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 22,962 17,719 7,629 402
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
James Fisher and Sons plc
Consolidated and Company cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Capital Attributable to equity holders of parent
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Total Non-
Share Share Retained Other Treasury shareholders controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves shares equity interests equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2014 12,525 25,238 147,716 (1,183) (1,392) 182,904 903 183,807
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 38,261 (6,501) - 31,760 456 32,216
Contributions by and distributions to owners:
Ordinary dividends paid - - (10,331) - - (10,331) - (10,331)
Share based compensation - - 1,226 - - 1,226 - 1,226
Tax effect of share based compensation - - 131 - - 131 - 131
Acquired with subsidiaries ---- - - 77 77
Purchase of shares by ESOT ---- (3,366) (3,366) - (3,366)
Sale of shares by ESOT ---- 430 430 - 430
- - (8,974) - (2,936) (11,910) 77 (11,833)
Transfer on disposal of shares - - (2,340) - 2,340 - - -
At 31 December 2014 12,525 25,238 174,663 (7,684) (1,988) 202,754 1,436 204,190
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 33,737 (3,670) - 30,067 952 31,019
Contributions by and distributions to owners:
Ordinary dividends paid - - (11,364) - - (11,364) - (11,364)
Share based compensation - - 214 - - 214 - 214
Tax effect of share based compensation - - 70 - - 70 - 70
Purchase of shares by ESOT ---- (4,220) (4,220) - (4,220)
Sale of shares by ESOT ---- 183 183 - 183
Arising on the issue of shares 16 287 - - - 303 - 303
16 287 (11,080) - (4,037) (14,814) - (14,814)
Transfer on disposal of shares - - (4,412) - 4,412 - - -
At 31 December 2015 12,541 25,525 192,908 (11,354) (1,613) 218,007 2,388 220,395
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Capital
–––––––––––––––––––
Share Share Retained Hedging Treasury Total
capital premium earnings reserves shares equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2014 12,525 25,238 102,316 (919) (1,392) 137,768
Proﬁt for the period - - 31,616 - - 31,616
Effective portion of changes in cash ﬂow hedges - - - (2,025) - (2,025)
Net changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges transferred to proﬁt or loss - - - (99) - (99)
Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plan liabilities - - (1,669) - - (1,669)
Contributions by and distributions to owners:
Ordinary dividends paid - - (10,331) - - (10,331)
Share based compensation - - 1,226 - - 1,226
Tax effect of share based compensation - - 130 - - 130
Purchase of shares by ESOT ---- (3,366) (3,366)
Sale of shares by ESOT ---- 430 430
Transactions with shareholders - - (8,975) - (2,936) (11,911)
Transfer on disposal of shares - - (2,340) - 2,340 -
At 31 December 2014 12,525 25,238 120,948 (3,043) (1,988) 153,680
Proﬁt for the period - - 39,565 - - 39,565
Effective portion of changes in cash ﬂow hedges - - - 676 - 676
Net changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges transferred to proﬁt or loss --- 77 - 77
Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plan liabilities - - (1,768) - - (1,768)
Contributions by and distributions to owners:
Ordinary dividends paid - - (11,364) - - (11,364)
Share based compensation -- 214-- 214
Tax effect of share based compensation -- 71-- 71
Arising on the issue of shares 16 287--- 303
Purchase of shares by ESOT ---- (4,220) (4,220)
Sale of shares by ESOT ---- 183 183
Transactions with shareholders 16 287 (11,079) - (4,037) (14,813)
Transfer on disposal of shares - - (4,412) - 4,412 -
At 31 December 2015 12,541 25,525 143,254 (2,290) (1,613) 177,417
58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 General information
James Fisher and Sons plc is a public limited company registered and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The
consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its interest in associates and jointly
controlled entities (together referred to as the Group), for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company and consolidated ﬁnancial statements were approved for publication by the Directors on 1 March 2016.
The Group and Company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), adopted by the
European Union (adopted IFRS). The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and on an historical cost basis, modiﬁed to include revaluation
to fair value of certain ﬁnancial instruments. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement and related notes for the
holding company have not been presented in these ﬁnancial statements. The proﬁt after taxation in the Company was £39.6m (2014: £31.6m). The Group and
Company ﬁnancial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except when otherwise indicated.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements and those of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU as at 31 December 2015
and are applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In the 2014 cashﬂow amortisation of acquired intangibles was disclosed with acquisition costs, in 2015 this has been re-classiﬁed into depreciation and
amortisation. The depreciation and loss/(proﬁt) on sale of plant and equipment has been corrected to reclassify the release of an impairment provision. As a
result of these changes there is no impact on the cashﬂow from operating activities.
2 Alternative performance measures
The Group uses a number of alternative (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”)) ﬁnancial measures which are not deﬁned within IFRS. The
Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and, as such, these measures are important and should
be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The adjustments are separately disclosed and are usually items that are signiﬁcant in size or non-recurring in
nature. The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this Annual Report and Accounts.
2.1 Underlying operating proﬁt and underlying proﬁt before taxation
Underlying operating proﬁt is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before amortisation or impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition expenses,
adjustments to deferred consideration (together, ‘acquisition related income and expense’), the costs of a material restructuring, asset impairment or
rationalisation of operations and the proﬁt or loss relating to the sale of businesses or property. The Directors believe that the underlying operating proﬁt is
an important measure of the operational performance of the Group. Underlying proﬁt before taxation is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt less net
ﬁnance expense.
2.2 Underlying earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated as the total of underlying proﬁt before tax, less income tax, but excluding the tax impact on separately
disclosed items included in the calculation of underlying proﬁt less proﬁt attributable to minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares in issue during the year. The Directors believe that underlying EPS provides an important measure of the underlying earnings capability of
the Group. Underlying earnings per share is set out in note 10.
2.3 Capital employed and return on capital employed (ROCE)
Capital employed is deﬁned as net assets less cash and short-term deposits and after adding back borrowings. Average capital employed is adjusted for
the timing of businesses acquired and after adding back cumulative amortisation of customer relationships. Segmental ROCE is deﬁned as the underlying
operating proﬁt divided by average capital employed. The key performance indicator, Group post tax ROCE is deﬁned as underlying operating proﬁt, less
notional tax, calculated by multiplying the effective tax rate by the underlying operating proﬁt, divided by average capital employed.
2015 2014
£000 £000
Operating proﬁt 51,516 53,918
Separately disclosed items before taxation (5,926) (2,381)
Underlying operating proﬁt 45,590 51,537
Net ﬁnance expense (4,343) (4,684)
Underlying proﬁt before tax 41,247 46,853
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 2 Alternative performance measures continued
Return on capital employed for the Group is calculated as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Capital employed:
Total assets 507,100 433,146
Total liabilities (286,705) (228,956)
Net assets 220,395 204,190
less cash and short-term deposits (22,962) (17,719)
plus borrowings 116,645 79,899
Capital employed 314,078 266,370
Underlying operating proﬁt 45,590 51,537
Notional tax at the effective tax rate (6,519) (9,895)
39,071 41,642
Average capital employed 290,224 252,310
Post tax return on average capital employed 13.5% 16.5%
3 Segmental information
For management reporting purposes, the Group has four operating segments reviewed by the Board: Marine Support, Offshore Oil, Specialist Technical and
Tankships. These operating segments form the basis of the primary segmental disclosures below. Their principal activities are set out in the Strategic report on
pages 16 to 19.
The Board assess the performance of the segments based on operating proﬁt as set out in note 2. The Board believes that such information is the most relevant
in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities which operate within these industries. Inter segmental sales are made using prices
determined on an arms length basis.
Sector assets exclude cash and short-term deposits, deferred tax and corporate assets that cannot reasonably be allocated to operating segments. Sector
liabilities exclude borrowings, retirement beneﬁt obligations, deferred tax and corporate liabilities that cannot reasonably be allocated to operating liabilities.
Year ended 31 December 2015
Marine Specialist
Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships Corporate Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Segmental revenue 194,389 63,742 130,293 52,627 - 441,051
Inter segment sales (1,411) (786) (850) (74) - (3,121)
Revenue 192,978 62,956 129,443 52,553 - 437,930
Underlying operating proﬁt 19,352 7,399 13,907 7,164 (2,232) 45,590
Acquisition costs (904) - (451) - - (1,355)
Adjustment to provision for contingent consideration 4,998 - 3,494 - - 8,492
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (397) (45) (769) - - (1,211)
Operating proﬁt 23,049 7,354 16,181 7,164 (2,232) 51,516
Loss on sale of business (393) (566) - - - (959)
Net ﬁnance expense (4,343)
Proﬁt before tax 46,214
Income tax (5,507)
Proﬁt for the year 40,707
Assets & liabilities
Segment assets 202,612 126,405 100,480 32,898 38,455 500,850
Investment in joint ventures 4,023 - 2,227 - - 6,250
Total assets 206,635 126,405 102,707 32,898 38,455 507,100
Segment liabilities (66,346) (8,300) (41,881) (6,441) (163,737) (286,705)
140,289 118,105 60,826 26,457 (125,282) 220,395
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 7,221 7,898 2,324 1,629 525 19,597
Depreciation and amortisation 6,708 10,812 3,174 3,294 454 24,442
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2014
Marine Specialist
Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships Corporate Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Segmental revenue 165,566 106,690 123,075 54,355 - 449,686
Inter segment sales (1,416) (1,810) (1,614) (47) - (4,887)
Revenue 164,150 104,880 121,461 54,308 - 444,799
Underlying operating proﬁt 14,150 22,426 13,338 4,711 (3,088) 51,537
Acquisition costs (405) - (295) - - (700)
Adjustment to provision for contingent consideration 698 - 3,402 - - 4,100
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (227) (122) (670) - - (1,019)
Operating proﬁt 14,216 22,304 15,775 4,711 (3,088) 53,918
Net ﬁnance expense (4,684)
Proﬁt before tax 49,234
Income tax (8,751)
Proﬁt for the year 40,483
Assets & liabilities
Segment assets 123,155 138,131 98,044 33,372 31,297 423,999
Investment in joint ventures 7,138 - 2,009 - - 9,147
Total assets 130,293 138,131 100,053 33,372 31,297 433,146
Segment liabilities (32,648) (15,427) (51,098) (9,754) (120,029) (228,956)
97,645 122,704 48,955 23,618 (88,732) 204,190
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 9,921 16,595 3,136 1,865 667 32,184
Depreciation and amortisation 4,855 9,905 3,022 3,975 312 22,069
Geographic information
Geographical revenue is determined by the location in which the product or service is provided. Where customers receive the product or service in one
geographical location for use or shipment to another it is not practicable for the Group to identify this and the revenue is attributed to the location of the initial
shipment. The geographical allocation of segmental assets and liabilities is determined by the location of the attributable business unit.
Middle East, Africa
United Kingdom Rest of Europe & Americas Asia Paciﬁc Total
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Segmental revenue 174,230 202,313 59,984 64,730 118,664 107,522 88,173 75,120 441,051 449,685
Inter segment sales (2,429) (3,773) (226) (486) (18) (627) (448) - (3,121) (4,886)
Group revenue 171,801 198,540 59,758 64,244 118,646 106,895 87,725 75,120 437,930 444,799
Segment assets 316,234 317,719 46,770 53,331 99,464 21,821 38,383 31,128 500,850 423,999
Investment in joint ventures 130 114 155 212 338 4,066 5,627 4,755 6,250 9,147
Segment liabilities (238,756) (199,825) (5,232) (7,192) (30,847) (12,576) (11,869) (9,363) (286,705) (228,956)
77,608 118,008 41,693 46,351 68,955 13,311 32,141 26,520 220,395 204,190
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 Revenue and operating charges
Revenue comprises goods and services of £312.4m (2014: £300.9m), rental income of £43.0m (2014: £51.1m) and construction contract income of £82.5m
(2014: £92.8m).
Operating charges reﬂected within operating proﬁt include:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Research and development costs 1,456 1,364
Net foreign currency losses/(gains) 1,383 (234)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 99,205 119,621
Operating lease rentals:
property 4,048 3,928
ships 7,987 8,844
other 188 418
12,223 13,190
Hire of vessels 14,589 13,527
26,812 26,717
Auditor’s remuneration comprises the following:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Audit of the ﬁnancial statements of the parent 160 129
Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 445 406
605 535
Taxation services 85 96
Corporate ﬁnance services 150 20
Total fees payable to Group auditor 840 651
5 Separately disclosed items
In order for a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group certain items are disclosed separately as set out in note 2. Separately disclosed
items are as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Costs incurred in acquiring businesses (1,355) (700)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1,210) (1,019)
Adjustment to provisions for contingent consideration 8,491 4,100
Acquisition related income and (expense) 5,926 2,381
Loss on disposal of business (959) -
Separately disclosed items before taxation 4,967 2,381
Tax on separately disclosed items 396 243
5,363 2,624
The adjustment to the provision for contingent consideration comprises £5.0m in respect of Subtech Group Holdings (Pty) Limited which was acquired for an
initial consideration of £3.3m on 2 March 2015. An element of consideration was dependent on a proﬁt target for the year ended 31 December 2015 which was
not achieved. In addition contingent consideration liabilities have been adjusted based on most recent business short-term and medium-term forecasts resulting
in a further credit of £3.5m.
6 Group employee costs
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
(a) Staff costs including Directors’ remuneration were as follows: £000 £000
Wages and salaries 97,037 95,784
Social security costs 9,351 9,707
Pension costs 3,714 4,152
Share based compensation 214 1,226
110,316 110,869
62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The monthly average number of persons including Executive Directors employed by the Group was:
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
Number Number
Technical and administrative 2,487 2,161
Seafarers 260 333
2,747 2,494
The Directors’ remuneration and their interest in shares of the Company are given in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 33 to 45. The amount charged
against operating proﬁt in the year in respect of Director short-term remuneration was £0.9m (2014: £1.2m) in respect of emoluments and £0.1m (2014: £0.1m)
in respect of pension contributions to deﬁned contribution schemes. The charge for share based payments to Directors was £0.1m (2014: £0.5m) and
aggregate gains under the exercise of options was £nil (2014: £0.1m).
2015 2014
(b) Compensation of key management to the Group £000 £000
Short-term employee beneﬁts 2,023 1,931
Share based payments 113 611
2,136 2,542
Key management personnel include the Board of Directors of the Company and other senior members of the management team. 
7 Net ﬁnance expense
2015 2014
£000 £000
Finance income:
Interest receivable on short-term deposits 239 197
Finance expense:
Bank loans and overdrafts (3,577) (3,396)
Preference dividend (3) (3)
Finance charges payable under ﬁnance leases (23) (20)
Net interest on pension obligations (756) (976)
Unwind of discount on contingent consideration (223) (486)
(4,582) (4,881)
Net ﬁnance expense (4,343) (4,684)
8 Taxation
2015 2014
(a) The tax charge is based on proﬁt for the year and comprises: £000 £000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax (3,804) (7,636)
Overseas tax (4,209) (3,324)
Adjustment in respect of prior years:
UK corporation tax 753 897
Overseas tax 1,217 50
Total current tax (6,043) (10,013)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
UK corporation tax (666) (198)
Overseas tax 1,202 1,460
Total taxation on proﬁt for the year (5,507) (8,751)
The total tax charge in the income statement includes a further £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) which is stated within the share of post tax results of joint ventures. 8 Taxation continued
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
(b) Income tax on comprehensive income £000 £000
Current tax:
Current tax on foreign exchange losses on internal loans 122 21
Current tax on contributions to deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 760 1,134
Current tax relating to share based payments 372 308
Deferred tax:
Deferred tax on actuarial loss on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 874 (818)
Deferred tax relating to derivatives (220) 429
Deferred tax relating to share based payments (302) (178)
1,606 896
(c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The Group falls under the UK tonnage tax regime on its ship owning and operating activities and a charge is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Proﬁts for these activities are not subject to corporation tax. The tax on the Group’s proﬁt before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using
the rate applicable under UK corporation tax rules as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Proﬁt before tax 46,214 49,234
Tax arising from interests in joint ventures 218 228
46,432 49,462
Tax on proﬁt at UK statutory tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 9,403 10,634
Tonnage tax relief on vessel activities (884) (583)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 554 625
(Over)/under provision in previous years:
Current tax (1,970) (947)
Deferred tax (246) 523
Higher tax rates on overseas income 497 60
Research and development relief (200) (151)
Non taxable income – (1,722) (1,228)
Impact of change of rate (19) -
Other 312 46
5,725 8,979
The effective rate on proﬁt before income tax from continuing operations is 11.9% (2014: 17.8%). The effective income tax rate on the underlying proﬁt before
tax was 14.3% (2014: 19.2%). 
At 31 December 2015 the Group had unrecognised tax losses of £2.6m (2014: £0.8m). A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses
due to the uncertainty relating to their future recovery.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were substantively enacted on
2 July 2013. Further reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective from 1 April 2020) were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The impact of re-measuring the Group’s UK tax assets and liabilities at these rates has not
been recognised in these ﬁnancial statements and the impact is not considered to be material.
64 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 9 Deferred tax
Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following:
Group Company
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Deferred tax assets:
Retirement beneﬁts 4,609 3,611 2,934 2,749
Share based payments 883 1,346 883 1,346
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 231 452 179 339
Losses carried forward 844 - - -
Temporary differences - - 281 773
6,567 5,409 4,277 5,207
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment (3,339) (3,127) - -
Intangible assets (3,308) (2,812) - -
Other items 3,116 2,679 - -
(3,531) (3,260) - -
Net deferred income tax asset 3,036 2,149 4,277 5,207
Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance sheet have been analysed according to the net exposures in each tax jurisdiction.
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
Group Company
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2,149 1,638 5,207 5,266
Charged to comprehensive income 654 (389) (86) 150
Charged to equity (302) (178) (302) (178)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 536 1,262 (542) (31)
Exchange adjustments 93 166 - -
Acquisition of subsidiaries (94) (350) - -
Balance at 31 December 3,036 2,149 4,277 5,207
At 31 December 2015 the Group has no recognised deferred income tax liability (2014: £nil) in respect of taxes that would be payable on the unremitted
earnings of certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. No deferred income tax liability has been recognised in respect of this temporary timing difference due to the
foreign proﬁts exemption, the availability of double taxation relief and the ability to control the remittance of earnings.
Deferred tax credited to the income statement in the year ending 31 December 2015 relates to the following:
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
£000 £000
Deferred tax assets (807) (66)
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment 80 324
Intangible assets 183 196
Other items 8 (1,716)
Deferred income tax credit (536) (1,262)
10 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the year, after excluding 148,275 (2014: 153,192) ordinary shares held by the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT),
held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net proﬁt attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2015 332,893 options (2014: 182,124) were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation as their effect
would have been anti-dilutive. The average market value of the Company’s shares for purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was based on
quoted market prices for the period during which the options were outstanding.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 10 Earnings per share continued
2015 2014
Number of Number of
Weighted average number of shares shares shares
Basic weighted average number of shares 50,040,647 49,986,659
Potential exercise of share based payment schemes 344,743 606,887
Diluted weighted average number of shares 50,385,390 50,593,546
Underlying earnings per share
To provide a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, underlying earnings per share on continuing activities is reported as an alternative
performance measure (note 2). Underlying proﬁt is as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Proﬁt attributable to owners of the Company 39,885 40,071
Adjustments:
Separately disclosed items (4,967) (2,381)
Tax on separately disclosed items (396) (243)
Underlying proﬁt attributable to owners of the Company 34,522 37,447
Earnings per share pence pence
Basic earnings per share 79.7 80.2
Diluted earnings per share 79.2 79.2
Underlying basic earnings per share 69.0 74.9
Underlying diluted earnings per share 68.5 74.0
11 Dividends paid and proposed
2015 2014 2015 2014
pence per share pence per share £000 £000
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 14.90 13.54 7,471 6,783
Interim dividend for 2015: 7.80 7.10 3,913 3,557
Less dividends on own shares held by ESOP (20) (9)
11,364 10,331
A ﬁnal dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 16.0p per share (2014: 14.9p) is proposed.
12 Goodwill
Marine Specialist
Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2014 25,464 42,898 25,554 10,260 104,176
Acquisitions 7,145 68 5,529 - 12,742
Exchange differences (61) (1,705) (774) - (2,540)
At 31 December 2014 32,548 41,261 30,309 10,260 114,378
Acquisitors 25,594 - 4,592 - 30,186
Exchange differences (2,634) (1,183) (332) - (4,149)
At 31 December 2015 55,508 40,078 34,569 10,260 140,415
Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units (CGU’s). The recoverable
amount of these units has been assessed based on value in use calculations using cash projections based on budgets approved by the Board for the next
ﬁnancial year together with projections derived from those budgets for the following four years. A terminal value of cash ﬂows beyond that date has been
calculated at a growth rate in line with management’s long-term expectations for the relevant market. The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations
include gross margin, discount rate, inﬂation of overheads and payroll and growth rates.
Growth estimates are based on the levels achieved in the current and historic periods adjusted for management expectations of the impact of management
actions and the future development of the relevant market. Short-term growth rates for turnover vary between 1% and 3% which allows for signiﬁcant growth in
project based activities. These growth rates are considered to be conservative and vary dependant on the market conditions in which the CGU operates. Direct
costs are expected to increase in line with turnover. Administrative costs are anticipated to increase at 2%.
66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Payroll inﬂation reﬂects the fact that the Group provides specialist services in a competitive market and are inﬂuenced by the need to retain skilled staff. As a
result the initial growth rates for payroll costs range between 1% in mature businesses to up to 3% for speciﬁc posts in businesses located in areas where skilled
staff are in short supply.
Discount rates applied to cash projections reﬂect management’s estimate of the return required from the business to reﬂect the cost of funds plus an appropriate
risk premium. This has been determined with reference to the CGU’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) adjusted for risks speciﬁc to each CGU’s cash
ﬂows. The range of pre-tax discount rates used was 6.1% to 7.1% (2014: 7.2% to 8.6%). An effective tax rate of 18.5% has been assumed as an estimated
long-term rate.
Based on the value in use calculations set out above no impairment of the goodwill of the cash generating units was identiﬁed.
The key assumptions applied to each CGU were as follows:
Marine Specialist 
Support Offshore Oil Technical Tankships
Short-term gross proﬁt growth 3%-5% 0.80% 3% 1%
Long-term gross proﬁt growth 2%-7% 2% 2%-7% 1%-2%
Short-term direct costs 3%-4% 0% 2%-3% 0%
Long-term direct costs 2% 0% 2% 1%-2%
Sensitivity to impairment
Sensitivity analysis has been performed to determine the impact of a change in a key assumption (e.g. such as an increase in discount rate by 1%) and no
impairment issues were identiﬁed.
13 Other intangible assets
Development Intellectual Customer
costs property relationships Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 6,890 639 4,708 12,237
Additions 1,808 3,042 992 5,842
Exchange differences - (18) (79) (97)
At 31 December 2014 8,698 3,663 5,621 17,982
Additions 2,678 26 - 2,704
Reclassiﬁcation 288 (288) - -
Acquisition - 3,000 1,349 4,349
Disposals - (1,428) - (1,428)
Exchange differences - 34 (189) (155)
At 31 December 2015 11,664 5,007 6,781 23,452
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 926 423 1,406 2,755
Charge for the period 1,069 468 1,019 2,556
Exchange differences - (13) (68) (81)
At 31 December 2014 1,995 878 2,357 5,230
Charge for the period 1,037 154 1,210 2,401
Reclassiﬁcation (267) 267 - -
Disposals - (143) - (143)
Exchange differences (67) (10) - (77)
At 31 December 2015 2,698 1,146 3,567 7,411
Net book value at 31 December 2015 8,966 3,861 3,214 16,041
Net book value at 1 January 2015 6,703 2,785 3,264 12,752
Net book value at 1 January 2014 5,964 216 3,302 9,482
Customer relationships relate to items acquired through business combinations which are amortised over their useful economic life. Development costs relate to
new products developed by the Group and intellectual property represents amounts purchased or acquired relating to technology in the Group’s activities.
Based on an assessment of value in use there are no indications that any impairment of these assets has arisen during the period.
Company
The Company has no intangible assets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 14 Property, plant and equipment
Assets Freehold
under & leasehold Plant &
Vessels construction property equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Group
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 71,369 2,025 22,575 109,978 205,947
Additions 6,104 9,895 3,945 12,240 32,184
Reclassiﬁcations - (6,896) 659 6,237 -
Acquisitions 6 - - 2,015 2,021
Disposals (10,435) (7) (160) (4,535) (15,137)
Exchange differences 28 (260) (73) (3,788) (4,093)
At 31 December 2014 67,072 4,757 26,946 122,147 220,922
Additions 1,873 6,940 1,973 8,811 19,597
Reclassiﬁcations - (7,407) - 7,407 -
Acquisitions 3,882 294 350 12,170 16,696
Disposals (29) (247) (276) (4,189) (4,741)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking - - (176) - (176)
Exchange differences (44) (263) (150) (3,155) (3,612)
At 31 December 2015 72,754 4,074 28,667 143,191 248,686
Group
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2014 47,270 - 3,939 46,536 97,745
Provided during the year 4,491 - 1,135 13,887 19,513
Reclassiﬁcations - - 5 (5) -
Utilisation of impairment provision (2,145) - - - (2,145)
Disposals (6,066) - (159) (2,053) (8,278)
Exchange differences 15 - (39) (2,518) (2,542)
At 31 December 2014 43,565 - 4,881 55,847 104,293
Provided during the year 4,177 - 1,147 16,717 22,041
Utilisation of impairment provision (482) - - - (482)
Disposals (26) - (148) (2,311) (2,485)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking - - (155) - (155)
Exchange differences (49) - (38) (2,033) (2,120)
At 31 December 2015 47,185 - 5,687 68,220 121,092
Net book value at 31 December 2015 25,569 4,074 22,980 74,971 127,594
Net book value at 1 January 2015 23,507 4,757 22,065 66,300 116,629
Net book value at 1 January 2014 24,099 2,025 18,636 63,442 108,202
Property, plant and equipment held under leasing arrangements
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2015 was £0.2m (2014: £0.3m). Included in
vessels are assets with a cost of £6.4m (2014: £6.2m) and accumulated depreciation of £5.6m (2014: £5.0m) which relate to assets held under operating
leases. Included in property, plant and equipment is aggregate interest capitalised of £1.0m (2014: £1.1m).
68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Freehold &
leasehold Plant &
Vessels property equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Company
Cost:
At 1 January 2014 9,452 1,839 1,797 13,088
Additions 129 - 668 797
Inter group transfers - 232 - 232
Disposals (418) - (250) (668)
At 31 December 2014 9,163 2,071 2,215 13,449
Additions 337 - 526 863
Disposals - - (139) (139)
At 31 December 2015 9,500 2,071 2,602 14,173
Company
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2014 5,203 801 885 6,889
Provided during the year 431 89 224 744
Inter-group transfers - 164 - 164
Disposals (418) - (250) (668)
At 31 December 2014 5,216 1,054 859 7,129
Provided during the year 396 88 366 850
Disposals - - (139) (139)
At 31 December 2015 5,612 1,142 1,086 7,840
Net book value at 31 December 2015 3,888 929 1,516 6,333
Net book value at 1 January 2015 3,947 1,017 1,356 6,320
Net book value at 1 January 2014 4,249 1,038 912 6,199
Included in property, plant and equipment is aggregate interest capitalised of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m).
15 Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements
The Group has a 50% equity interest in Eurotestconsult UK Limited, a company which provides monitoring, instrumentation and testing services.
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Fendercare Benelux BV and Fendercare Omega Limited and a 49% equity interest in Fendercare
Malaysia Sdn Bhd. These joint ventures, which are referred to as the FCM businesses, are marine services companies operating ship-to-ship transfers principally
in Northern Europe and Asia. 
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of First Response Marine Pte Ltd (FRM). FRM provides submarine rescue services to the Singapore
government under a 20 year service contract which commenced in March 2009.
On the 1 November 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 55% interest of a number of companies, alternatively known as Fendercare Nigeria. For further
details of the acquisition, see note 24.
Details of the Group’s joint ventures and associated undertakings are set out on pages 97 and 98. The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities and trading results
of these joint venture entities at 31 December 2015 which are accounted for under the equity accounting method, are as follows:
2015 2014
£000 £000
Current assets 24,710 23,548
Non-current assets 18,977 23,347
Current liabilities (15,543) (19,373)
Non-current liabilities (23,627) (20,129)
Loans to associate 1,733 1,754
6,250 9,147
Revenue 13,425 16,951
Cost of sales (11,496) (13,794)
Administrative expenses (920) (2,039)
Proﬁt from operations 1,009 1,118
Net ﬁnance expense (704) (704)
Proﬁt before income tax 305 414
Taxation (218) (228)
Proﬁt after tax 87 186
Non-controlling interests 13 (33)
Net proﬁt attributable to equity holders 100 153
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements continued
2015 2014
£000 £000
Segmental analysis of proﬁt after tax:
Marine Support (453) (394)
Specialist Technical 540 580
87 186
Movement on investment in joint ventures:
At 1 January 9,147 9,467
Acquisitions 676 30
Stepped acquisition of Fendercare Nigeria (3,359) -
Proﬁt for the period 100 153
Dividends received (1,089) (641)
Share of fair value gains/(losses) on cash ﬂow hedges 354 (133)
Non-controlling interests - 33
Exchange adjustments 421 238
At 31 December 6,250 9,147
There are no capital commitments or contingent liabilities in respect of the Group’s interests in joint ventures.
16 Financial assets
Available for sale
2015 2014
Group £000 £000
At 1 January 1,478 1,378
Additions - 100
At 31 December 1,478 1,478
Company
At 1 January and 31 December 1,368 1,368
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets include a 17.2% (2014: 17.2%) equity interest in ordinary shares in SEML De Co-operation Transmanche, an unlisted company
incorporated in France, whose main activity is a port and ferry operator. In addition, the Group has a 50% interest in DivexDomeyer GmbH, a company
incorporated in Germany which provides in-service support and aftermarket services to the German navy. The Group does not actively participate in the
operation and control of that business.
The investments listed above are in unquoted entities whereby the fair value of the shareholding cannot be readily ascertained or measured reliably. The
investments are therefore held at initial cost and are subject to an annual impairment review. No impairment was required at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Subsidiary
Investments undertakings
–––––––––––––––––––––––
Shares Loans Total
Company £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 156,926 91,785 248,711
Additions/increases 387 50,171 50,558
Recapitalisations 2,351 (2,351) -
Repayments - (20,824) (20,824)
At 31 December 2014 159,664 118,781 278,445
Additions/increases 259 101,358 101,617
Repayments - (77,023) (77,023)
At 31 December 2015 159,923 143,116 303,039
Amount provided
At 1 January 2014 445 348 793
Released - (348) (348)
At 31 December 2014 445 - 445
At 31 December 2015 445 - 445
Net book value at 31 December 2015 159,478 143,116 302,594
Net book value at 31 December 2014 159,219 118,781 278,000
A list of subsidiary undertakings is included on pages 97 and 98.
70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 17 Inventories
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
£000 £000
Work in progress 9,088 7,329
Raw materials and consumables 6,105 8,059
Finished goods 32,243 25,268
47,436 40,656
Inventories are stated net of impairment provisions of £3.1m (2014: £2.6m). During the year £0.5m (2014: £0.8m) was charged to the income statement to write
down inventories to net realisable value.
18 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 69,099 68,924 - 14
Amounts owed by group undertakings - - 1,883 1,476
Amounts owed by joint venture undertakings 1,471 6,069 - -
Other non-trade receivables 18,722 7,880 5,739 2,895
Prepayments and accrued income 52,442 34,771 630 288
141,734 117,644 8,252 4,673
Of the above other non-trade receivables of £nil (2014: £0.3m) are expected to be recovered in more than one year. At 31 December 2015, the aggregated
amount of costs incurred and recognised proﬁts (less recognised losses) to date under open construction contracts amounted to £24.6m (2014: £23.5m).
Retentions relating to construction contracts included in trade receivables are £nil (2014: £0.1m). Included within the trade and other receivable balances is
£26.9m (2014: £23.8m) in relation to construction contracts in progress. During the year the principal customer of one of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries
terminated its contract for mooring and diving services, whilst discussions are on-going regarding settlement, the Group expects to recover all costs to be
incurred relating to the termination.
19 Share capital
Group and Company
Authorised
66,320,000 ordinary shares of 25p each
100,000 3.5% cumulative preference shares of £1 each
Allotted, called up and fully paid
£1 Cumulative 
25p Ordinary shares preference shares
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
In thousands of shares 2015 2014 2015 2014
In issue at 1 January 50,099 50,099 100 100
Exercise of share options 65 - - -
In issue 31 December 50,164 50,099 100 100
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Issued share capital 12,541 12,525 100 100
The preference shareholders are entitled to receive 3.5% per annum on the par value of the shares and the ordinary shareholders receive dividends as declared
from time to time by the Directors.
Shares all carry equal voting rights of one vote per share held. Neither type of share is redeemable. In the event of a winding up order the amount receivable in
respect of the cumulative preference shares is limited to their nominal value. The ordinary shareholders are entitled to an unlimited share of the surplus after
distribution to the cumulative preference shareholders. Preference shares are treated as a liability in the balance sheet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Share capital continued
Treasury shares
2015 2014
£000 £000
148,275 (2014: 153,192) ordinary shares of 25p 1,613 1,988
The Company has an established Employee Share Ownership Trust, the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Trust, to meet potential obligations under
share option and long-term incentive schemes awarded to employees. The market value of these shares at 31 December 2015 was £1.7m (2014: £1.8m). The
Trust has not waived its right to receive dividends.
In the year ended 31 December 2015, 65,118 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £16,279 were issued under the Company’s Executive Share
Option Scheme at option prices of 327p and 468p per share giving rise to total consideration of £303,111. No ordinary shares of 25p were allotted on the
exercise of share options in the year to 31 December 2014.
During the year the company purchased 120,000 (2014: 150,000) of its own shares in market by the ESOP at an average cost per share of £10.32 (2014:
£13.30) and a cumulative cost of £1,238,397 (2014: £1,994,553).
20 Other reserve movements
Translation Hedging
reserve reserve Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2014 (940) (243) (1,183)
Other comprehensive income for the period (4,395) (2,106) (6,501)
At 31 December 2014 (5,335) (2,349) (7,684)
Other comprehensive income for the period (4,717) 1,047 (3,670)
At 31 December 2015 (10,052) (1,302) (11,354)
21 Trade and other payables
Non-current liabilities
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Provision for contingent consideration 8,155 9,086 - -
Accruals and deferred income 573 499 - -
8,728 9,585 - -
Current liabilities
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables 38,303 38,206 2,194 2,936
Amounts owed to group undertakings - - 5,154 12,881
Amounts owed to joint venture undertakings 289 1,506 - -
Taxation and social security 7,597 5,371 366 239
Other payables 15,794 11,651 1,387 1,001
Accruals and deferred income 63,398 49,257 3,532 3,022
125,381 105,991 12,633 20,079
22 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group and Company deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme obligations relate to the James Fisher and Sons plc Pension Fund for Shore Staff (Shore staff), the
Merchant Navy Ofﬁcers Pension Fund (MNOPF) and the Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund (MNRPF). The ﬁnancial statements incorporate the latest full
actuarial valuations of the schemes which have been updated to 31 December 2015 by qualiﬁed actuaries using assumptions set out in the table below. The
Group’s obligations in respect of its pension schemes at 31 December 2015 were as follows:
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Shore staff (8,630) (10,522) (8,630) (10,522)
MNOPF (9,730) (11,284) (7,366) (8,611)
MNRPF (8,596) - (3,094) -
(26,956) (21,806) (19,090) (19,133)
72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Shore staff
The assets of this scheme are held in a separate trustee administered account and do not include any of the Group’s assets. The scheme was closed to new
members in October 2001 and closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010. The most recent actuarial valuation was as at 31 July 2013. 
MNOPF
The MNOPF is an industry wide pension scheme which is accounted for as a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. It is valued every three years and deﬁcits have typically
been funded over a ten year period. The most recent triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme was as at 31 March 2015 and no additional deﬁcit funding was
requested by the Trustees.
The share of the Group and Company in the net retirement beneﬁt obligation of MNOPF are 3.0% (2014: 3.0%) and 1.4% (2014: 1.4%) respectively. Disclosures
relating to this scheme are based on these allocations. The liability recognised represents the discounted value of committed cash ﬂows. Information supplied by
the trustees of the MNOPF has been reviewed by the Company’s actuaries. The principal assumption in the review is the discount rate on the scheme’s liabilities
which was 4.00% (2014: 3.75%). The disclosures below relate to the Group’s share of the assets and liabilities within the MNOPF.
MNRPF
On 25 February 2015, the High Court conﬁrmed that the Trustees of the MNRPF could implement its proposed funding regime which required former employers,
such as James Fisher and Sons plc, to contribute towards the deﬁcit. Based on the most recent actuarial valuation of the MNRPF as at 31 March 2014, the
Group and Company have recognised a deﬁned beneﬁt liability based on the discounted value of expected cash contributions, the timing of which is currently
subject to agreement with the Trustee. The shares of the Group and the Company in the net retirement beneﬁt obligation of the MNRPF are respectively 2.46%
and 0.89%. The principal assumption in the MNRPF valuation is the discount rate on the schemes liabilities which was 4%.
Actuarial assumptions
The scheme’s assets are stated at their market values on the respective balance sheet dates. The overall expected rates of return on assets reﬂect the risk free
rate of return plus an appropriate risk premium based on the nature of the relevant asset category. The principal assumptions used in updating the latest
valuations for each of the schemes were:
2015 2014
Inﬂation (%) 3.15 3.05
Rate of increase of pensions in payment - shore staff (%) 3.00 - 3.15 2.95 - 3.05
Discount rate for scheme liabilities (%) 4.00 3.75
Expected rates of return on assets (%) 4.00 3.75
Post retirement mortality: (years)
Shore staff scheme
Current pensioner at 65 male 21.0 21.1
Current pensioner at 65 female 23.0 23.4
Future pensioner at 65 male 22.6 22.9
Future pensioner at 65 female 24.9 25.3
The post retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increase in longevity. The “current” disclosures above relate to assumptions based on longevity (in
years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with “future” being that relating to a member who is currently 45 years old.
Sensitivities
The key sensitivities on the major schemes may be summarised as follows:
Shore staff scheme
Key measure Change in assumption Change in deﬁcit
Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 2.9%
Rate of inﬂation Increase by 0.25% Increase by 1.4%
Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy
of 1 year Increase by 3.3%
MNOPF & MNRPF
Key measure Change in assumption Change in deﬁcit
Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 0.5%
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 22 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
(a) The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are:
As at 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities 3,878 2,693 3,166 9,737 3,878 1,267 1,140 6,285
Gilts/corporate bonds - 25,593 - 25,593 - 12,044 - 12,044
Other investments 45,737 49,669 17,197 112,603 45,737 23,374 6,191 75,302
Cash or liquid assets 1,200 5,907 331 7,438 1,200 2,780 119 4,099
Fair value of scheme assets 50,815 83,862 20,694 155,371 50,815 39,465 7,450 97,730
Present value of scheme 
liabilities (59,445) (93,592) (29,290) (182,327) (59,445) (46,831) (10,544) (116,820)
Net pension liabilities 
recognised in the balance 
sheet (8,630) (9,730) (8,596) (26,956) (8,630) (7,366) (3,094) (19,090)
As at 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities 7,135 5,140 - 12,275 7,135 2,419 - 9,554
Gilts/corporate bonds - 31,674 - 31,674 - 14,905 - 14,905
Other investments 46,649 39,873 - 86,522 46,649 18,764 - 65,413
Cash or liquid assets 20 3,467 - 3,487 20 1,632 - 1,652
Fair value of scheme assets 53,804 80,154 - 133,958 53,804 37,720 - 91,524
Present value of scheme 
liabilities (64,326) (91,438) - (155,764) (64,326) (46,331) - (110,657)
Net pension liabilities 
recognised in the balance sheet (10,522) (11,284) - (21,806) (10,522) (8,611) - (19,133)
(b) Expense recognised in the income statement 
Year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Current service cost 21-- 21 21-- 21
Expenses 105 - - 105 105 - - 105
Interest cost on beneﬁt 
obligation 2,325 3,394 - 5,719 2,325 1,710 - 4,035
Return on scheme assets (1,957) (3,006) - (4,963) (1,957) (1,415) - (3,372)
494 388 - 882 494 295 - 789
The actual return on the Shore staff plan assets is £0.6m.
Year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Current service cost 30 - - 30 30 - - 30
Expenses 143 - - 143 143 - - 143
Interest cost on beneﬁt 
obligation 2,685 4,127 - 6,812 2,685 2,094 - 4,779
Return on scheme assets (2,264) (3,572) - (5,836) (2,264) (1,681) - (3,945)
594 555 - 1,149 594 413 - 1,007
The actual return on the Shore staff plan assets is £5.8m.
74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued (c) Movements in the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 
Year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2015 10,522 11,284 - - 21,806 10,522 8,611 - 19,133
Expense recognised in the income 
statement 494 388 - - 882 494 295 - 789
Contributions paid to scheme (1,642) (1,873) - - (3,515) (1,642) (1,490) - (3,132)
Remeasurement gains and losses (744) (69) 8,596 - 7,783 (744) (50) 3,094 2,300
8,630 9,730 8,596 - 26,956 8,630 7,366 3,094 19,090
Year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2014 9,777 13,460 - (96) 23,141 9,777 9,784 - 19,561
Disposal - - - 96 96----
Expense recognised in the income 
statement 594 555 - - 1,149 594 413 - 1,007
Contributions paid to scheme (1,655) (3,051) - - (4,706) (1,655) (1,818) - (3,473)
Remeasurement gains and losses 1,806 320 - - 2,126 1,806 232 - 2,038
10,522 11,284 - - 21,806 10,522 8,611 - 19,133
(d) Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are analysed as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2015 64,326 91,438 - - 155,764 64,326 46,331 - 110,657
Current service cost 21--- 21 21 -- 21
Expenses 105--- 105 105-- 105
Interest cost 2,325 3,394 - - 5,719 2,325 1,710 - 4,035
Contributions by scheme participants 5--- 5 5-- 5
Remeasurement loss/(gain):
Actuarial loss arising from scheme 
experience 74 700 - - 774 74 327 - 401
Actuarial gain arising from changes 
in demographic assumptions (853) - - - (853) (853) - - (853)
Actuarial gain arising from changes 
in ﬁnancial assumptions (1,300) (67) - - (1,367) (1,300) (47) - (1,347)
Net beneﬁts paid out (5,258) (1,873) - - (7,131) (5,258) (1,490) - (6,748)
On recognition - - 29,290 - 29,290 - - 10,544 10,544
59,445 93,592 29,290 - 182,327 59,445 46,831 10,544 116,820
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 22 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
Year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2014 59,072 90,262 - 136 149,470 59,072 45,927 - 104,999
Disposal - - - (136) (136) ----
Current service cost 30 - - - 30 30 - - 30
Expenses 143 - - - 143 143 - - 143
Interest cost 2,685 4,127 - - 6,812 2,685 2,094 - 4,779
Contributions by scheme participants 7 - - - 7 7 - - 7
Remeasurement (gain)/loss:
Actuarial gain arising from scheme 
experience (424) (224) - - (648) (424) (106) - (530)
Actuarial loss arising from changes 
in ﬁnancial assumptions 5,723 323 - - 6,046 5,723 234 - 5,957
Net beneﬁts paid out (2,910) (3,050) - - (5,960) (2,910) (1,818) - (4,728)
64,326 91,438 - - 155,764 64,326 46,331 - 110,657
(e) Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2015 53,804 80,154 - - 133,958 53,804 37,720 - 91,524
Return on scheme assets recorded 
in interest 1,957 3,006 - - 4,963 1,957 1,415 - 3,372
Remeasurement (gain)/loss:
Return on plan assets excluding 
interest income (1,335) 702 - - (633) (1,335) 330 - (1,005)
Contributions by employer 1,642 1,873 - - 3,515 1,642 1,490 - 3,132
Contributions by scheme participants 5--- 5 5 -- 5
Net beneﬁts paid out (5,258) (1,873) - - (7,131) (5,258) (1,490) - (6,748)
On recognition - - 20,694 - 20,694 - - 7,450 7,450
50,815 83,862 20,694 - 155,371 50,815 39,465 7,450 97,730
Year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Shore ScanTech Shore
staff MNOPF MNRPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF MNRPF Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2014 49,295 76,802 - 232 126,329 49,295 36,143 - 85,438
Disposal - - - (232) (232) ----
Return on scheme assets recorded 
in interest 2,264 3,572 - - 5,836 2,264 1,681 - 3,945
Remeasurement loss/(gain):
Return on plan assets excluding 
interest income 3,493 (220) - - 3,273 3,493 (104) - 3,389
Contributions by employer 1,655 3,050 - - 4,705 1,655 1,818 - 3,473
Contributions by scheme participants 7 - - - 7 7 - - 7
Net beneﬁts paid out (2,910) (3,050) - - (5,960) (2,910) (1,818) - (4,728)
53,804 80,154 - - 133,958 53,804 37,720 - 91,524
76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
(f) History of experience gains and losses
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Shore staff £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 50,815 53,804 49,295 47,367 44,026
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (59,445) (64,326) (59,072) (57,062) (54,866)
Deﬁcit in scheme (8,630) (10,522) (9,777) (9,695) (10,840)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain:
Return on plan assets excluding interest income (1,335) 3,493 1,965 2,262 (490)
Remeasurement (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities (74) 424 8 - 26
MNOPF 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 83,862 80,154 76,802 73,944 64,835
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (93,592) (91,438) (90,262) (91,372) (84,054)
Deﬁcit in scheme (9,730) (11,284) (13,460) (17,428) (19,219)
MNOPF 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 39,465 37,720 36,143 37,899 33,231
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (46,831) (46,331) (45,927) (46,843) (43,097)
Deﬁcit in scheme (7,366) (8,611) (9,784) (8,944) (9,866)
MNRPF 2015 2014
Group £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 20,694 -
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (29,290) -
Deﬁcit in scheme (8,596) -
MNRPF 2015 2014
Company £000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 7,450 -
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (10,544) -
Deﬁcit in scheme (3,094) -
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses relating to all schemes recognised since 1 January 2004 in the Group and Company statement of
comprehensive income is a loss of £50.5m (2014: £42.7m). The Directors do not consider it to be possible to determine how much of the pension scheme
deﬁcit recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to equity of £12.8m in the Group and Company is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since
inception of those pension schemes. Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been
recognised in the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income before January 2004.
(g) Deﬁned contribution schemes 
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution schemes. The pension charge for the year for these arrangements is equal to the contributions paid and
was £3.6m (2014: £4.4m). During the year the Company contributed £0.3m (2014: £0.4m) into deﬁned contribution schemes.
23 Share based payments
The Company operates an Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) in respect of Directors and certain senior employees
and details of these are set out in the Director’s remuneration report on pages 33 to 45. The Company also operates a Sharesave scheme (Sharesave) for
eligible employees which is HM Revenue and Customs approved.
Sharesave
All employees, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, may apply for share options under an employee save as you earn plan which may from
time to time be offered by the Company. An individual’s participation is limited so that the aggregate price payable for shares under option at any time does not
exceed the statutory limit. Options granted under the plans will normally be exercisable if the employee remains in employment and any other conditions set by
the Remuneration Committee have been satisﬁed. Options are normally exercisable at the end of the related savings contract but early exercise is permitted in
certain limited circumstances. The performance period will not normally be less than three years or greater than seven years. Awards were made under this
scheme on 14 April 2015.
LTIP
The Company and Group recognises an expense for these beneﬁts provided to employees and the amount charged in respect of equity settled share based
payments was £0.2m (2014: £1.2m). The Company has granted conditional awards in the form of options over shares or conditional rights to have shares
transferred to certain employees under the LTIP (approved at the 2015 Annual General Meeting) over 321,598 (2014: 357,933) ordinary shares of 25p each. 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23 Share based payments continued
The weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) and movements in share options during the year are as follows:
“Nil” options
2015 2014 2015 2014
Group Number WAEP Number WAEP Number Number
Outstanding at 1 January 937,098 £6.42 898,601 £5.53 357,933 476,317
Granted during the year 37,189 £13.98 99,623 £14.64 128,184 86,035
Forfeited during the year (30,572) £10.90 (25,138) £9.20 - -
Exercised (151,470) £4.16 (35,988) £4.95 (164,519) (204,419)
Outstanding at 31 December 792,245 £7.03 937,098 £6.42 321,598 357,933
Exercisable at 31 December 523,306 £4.79 559,364 £4.47 - -
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £12.89 (2014: £14.15). For the share options outstanding at
31 December 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3 years and 4 months (2014: 3 years and 7 months). The weighted average fair value of
options granted during the year was £8.64 (2014: £8.12). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £3.54 - £14.89 (2014:
£3.27 - £14.89).
“Nil” options
2015 2014 2015 2014
Company Number WAEP Number WAEP Number Number
Outstanding at 1 January 776,604 £5.79 735,158 £5.12 172,667 237,980
Granted during the year 7,528 £13.98 51,221 £14.87 86,818 46,736
Forfeited during the year (5,518) £9.88 - £0.00 - -
Exercised (125,043) £3.90 (9,775) £3.43 (67,391) (112,049)
Outstanding at 31 December 653,571 £6.21 776,604 £5.79 192,094 172,667
Exercisable at 31 December 522,928 £4.79 559,364 £4.47 - -
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £12.78 (2014: £14.29). For the share options outstanding at 31
December 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 4 years and 5 months (2014: 4 years and 6 months). The weighted average fair value of
options granted during the year was £10.16 (2014: £14.30). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £3.54 - £14.89
(2014: £3.27 - £14.89). The fair value of share based payments has been estimated using the Monte Carlo Statistical model for the 2015 ESOS and the Black
Scholes model for the other schemes.
The inputs to the models used to determine the valuations fell within the following ranges:
2015 2014
Dividend yield (%) 1.6% 1.5%
Expected life of option (years) 3 - 7.26 3 - 7.26
Share price at date of grant £13.35 - £13.98 £13.93 - £14.29
Expected share price volatility (%) 30% 25%
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.73% - 1.10% 1.30% - 2.12%
24 Business combinations
Year ended 31 December 2015
On 15 January 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of High Technology Sources Limited (HTSL) for a cash consideration of £2.2m. HTSL
provides an extensive range of sealed industrial sources and reference and calibration sources through their exclusive UK distribution agreements and is
included in the Group’s Specialist Technical division.
On 10 February 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of the National Hyperbaric Centre Limited (NHC) for an initial cash consideration of
£3.5m, with further contingent consideration payable of up to £1.0m based on speciﬁc future contracts undertaken post completion. NHC operates hyperbaric
testing chambers which are used for testing equipment for the subsea industry. Its services include reception personnel for decompression, subsea equipment
testing, training services to the diving industry and hyperbaric welding trials to customers worldwide. It is included in the Specialist Technical division.
On 2 March 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Subtech Group Holdings (Pty) Limited (Subtech), for an initial consideration of £3.3m with
potential contingent consideration based on proﬁtability between 2015 and 2017 of up to £14.7m. Subtech, which is based in Durban, South Africa, provides
marine and subsea services with operations in Namibia and Mozambique, and is included in the Marine Support division.
On 5 May 2015 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Mojo Maritime Limited (MML), for an initial consideration of £3.2m. Contingent
consideration of up to £0.3m was payable based on proﬁtability for the year ended 31 December 2015. MML provides specialist design and consultancy
services in the offshore renewable energy sector and is included in the Specialist Technical division.
On 13 May 2015 the Group acquired the assets and intellectual property rights of X-Subsea UK Holdings Limited (X-Subsea) for a cash consideration of
£14.8m. X-Subsea, which is now part of James Fisher Subsea Excavation within Marine Support, operates excavation, trenching and dredging equipment, to
the subsea market in the oil and gas, telecoms and renewable energy sectors.
On the 1 November 2015 the Group acquired the remaining 55% beneﬁcial interest of a number of companies, alternatively known as Fendercare Nigeria for an
initial consideration of £5.3m with a further £0.7m payable on 31 October 2016. This is included within deferred consideration in the other acquisitions table as
the initial consideration was settled in early 2016.
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out below:
Fair
Book value
value adjustments Total
Subtech £000 £000 £000
Intangible assets - 543 543
Property, plant and equipment 3,267 (497) 2,770
Inventories 134 - 134
Trade and other receivables 2,496 (341) 2,155
Cash and short-term deposits 418 - 418
Trade and other payables (2,928) (416) (3,344)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (815) - (815)
Deferred tax - 199 199
Fair value of net assets acquired 2,572 (512) 2,060
Goodwill 11,596
13,656
Consideration:
Cash consideration 3,324
Contingent consideration 10,332
13,656
Fair
Book value
value adjustments Total
X-Subsea £000 £000 £000
Intangible assets 3,000 - 3,000
Property, plant and equipment 6,472 - 6,472
Inventories 259 - 259
Trade and other receivables 203 (78) 125
Cash and short-term deposits 78 - 78
Trade and other payables (2,603) 2,166 (437)
Fair value of net assets acquired 7,409 2,088 9,497
Goodwill 5,303
Cash consideration 14,800
Fair
Book value
value adjustments Total
Other acquisitions £000 £000 £000
Intangible assets 1,049 (243) 806
Property, plant and equipment 5,813 - 5,813
Inventories 566 (80) 486
Trade and other receivables 3,749 (45) 3,704
Cash and short-term deposits 3,044 - 3,044
Trade and other payables (8,005) (862) (8,867)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (168) (492) (660)
Deferred tax (132) (161) (293)
Fair value of net assets acquired 5,916 (1,883) 4,033
Goodwill arising on acquisitions 13,287
17,320
Consideration:
Cash consideration 11,349
Deferred consideration 5,971
17,320
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24 Business combinations continued
The book value of these business combinations has been adjusted for fair value adjustments relating to recognised in respect of intangible assets relating to
customer relationships, the write down of irrecoverable debtors and amounts capitalised as intangibles. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for
income tax purposes.
Subtech X Subsea Other Total
Cash ﬂow in respect of business combinations £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash paid 3,324 14,800 11,349 29,473
Cash and short-term deposits acquired (418) (78) (3,044) (3,540)
Acquisition of business net of cash acquired 2,906 14,722 8,305 25,933
Interest bearing borrowings acquired 815 - 660 1,475
Acquisition costs 625 249 451 1,325
4,346 14,971 9,416 28,733
Contribution to Group results
The businesses acquired during the period contributed £1.6m to the Group’s proﬁt after tax and £35.8m of revenues. If these businesses had been acquired at
the start of the ﬁnancial year the contribution to Group proﬁt after tax would have been £3.6m with revenue of £55.3m.
Disposals
On the 1 November 2015, the Group disposed of its 100% holding in Strainstall AS for a consideration of £0.1m. The loss on disposal after related costs was
£0.7m. On the 17 November 2015, the Group disposed of the assets of the Plymouth branch of Fendercare Limited for a consideration of £0.1m. The loss on
disposal after related costs was £0.3m.
25 Loans and borrowings
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
Non-current liabilities £000 £000 £000 £000
Bank loans 116,550 79,865 116,550 79,865
Finance leases 95 34 - -
116,645 79,899 116,550 79,865
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
Current liabilities £000 £000 £000 £000
Overdrafts - - 2,881 23,944
Finance leases 106 54 - -
106 54 2,881 23,944
Bank loans 
Loans analysed by currency are repayable as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2015
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
GBP USD Total GBP USD Total
Currency £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Due between one and two years 9,385 7,802 17,187 9,385 7,802 17,187
Due between two and ﬁve years 89,525 9,838 99,363 89,525 9,838 99,363
98,910 17,640 116,550 98,910 17,640 116,550
Year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
GBP USD Total GBP USD Total
Currency £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Due between one and two years 12,273 - 12,273 12,273 - 12,273
Due between two and ﬁve years 46,138 7,054 53,192 46,138 7,054 53,192
Due after more than ﬁve years 14,400 - 14,400 14,400 - 14,400
72,811 7,054 79,865 72,811 7,054 79,865
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued The interest rates charged during the year ranged from 1.6% to 2.2% (2014: 1.75% to 2.5%). There were no loans secured against the assets of the Group or
Company in the current or prior period.
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts
Group
The Group uses ﬁnance leases in respect of certain items of plant and equipment. The minimum future lease payments due under ﬁnance leases and hire
purchase contracts are as follows:
Group
––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
£000 £000
Future minimum payments due:
Within one year 129 65
Within two to ﬁve years 117 38
246 103
Less: ﬁnance charges allocated to future periods (45) (15)
201 88
Present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows:
Within one year 106 54
Within two to ﬁve years 95 34
201 88
Company
The Company does not have any outstanding ﬁnance lease commitments.
26 Reconciliation of net debt
Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. 
1 January Cash Other Exchange 31 December
2015 ﬂow non cash movement 2015
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash in hand and at bank 17,719 5,745 - (502) 22,962
Debt due after 1 year (79,965) (35,807) 1,276 (2,154) (116,650)
Finance leases (88) 102 (247) 32 (201)
Net debt (62,334) (29,960) 1,029 (2,624) (93,889)
1 January Cash Other Exchange 31 December
2014 ﬂow non cash movement 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash in hand and at bank 23,982 (5,177) - (1,086) 17,719
Debt due after 1 year (78,049) (1,720) 53 (249) (79,965)
Finance leases (211) 546 (429) 6 (88)
Net debt (54,278) (6,351) (376) (1,329) (62,334)
27 Financial instruments
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management policy is to maintain a strong credit rating and covenant ratios in order to be able to support the
continued growth of its trading businesses and so maximise shareholder value. The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating
cash ﬂows, with borrowings in place to fund acquisitions and capital expenditure. At 31 December 2015 the Group had £67.4m (2014: £81.4m) of undrawn
committed facilities of which £20.0m expires within twelve months.
The Group is required under the terms of its loan agreements to maintain covenant ratios in respect of net debt to earnings before interest and depreciation
and amortisation (EBITDA), net interest costs to earnings before interest (EBIT) and EBIT and operating lease costs to net interest and operating lease costs.
The Group met its covenant ratios for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Directors have prepared forecasts of the cash ﬂows for the subsequent
eighteen month period which indicate that taking into account the factors noted above the Group will meet its covenant requirements for this period. The total
amount that it is able to borrow under existing revolving credit facilities is limited to a maximum of £165m (2014: £150m). 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27 Financial instruments continued
The Group manages its capital structure so as to maintain investor, supplier and market conﬁdence and to provide returns to shareholders that will support
the future development of the business. Capital is monitored by measuring the gearing ratio which is a measure derived from net debt divided by capital. Net
debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Capital represents net equity attributable to the equity holders of the
parent. Return on capital employed is also monitored. The Group’s dividend policy is based on the expected growth in sustainable income streams after
making provision for the retention of capital to invest in growth and acquisitions. In evaluating growth investment opportunities the Group has a target of a
15% return on the capital invested.
2015 2014
£000 £000
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 116,751 79,953
Less cash and cash equivalents (22,962) (17,719)
Net debt 93,789 62,234
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent 218,007 202,754
Gearing ratio 43.0% 30.7%
The reasons for the change in gearing over the previous year are discussed in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 23.
The Group has exposure to the following risks:
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. These arise
principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and from cash balances held with ﬁnancial institutions. The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets
represents the maximum credit exposure. There are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is
inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and the industry and country in which each customer operates. The Group has a number
of large customers including government agencies in the UK and overseas, major oil companies and other multinational corporations. The ten largest
customers of the Group accounted for approximately 33% of Group revenue (2014: 37%). No customer accounted for more than 7% (2014: 7%) of Group
revenue. New customers are subject to creditworthiness checks and credit limits are subject to approval by senior management. Goods are sold subject to
retention of title clauses so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets 1,478 1,478 1,368 1,368
Receivables 130,081 108,142 7,622 4,385
Cash and cash equivalents 22,962 17,719 7,629 402
Interest rate swaps used for hedging:
Assets 2 49 2 49
154,523 127,388 16,621 6,204
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms. At 31 December the value of trade debtors outstanding was:
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
gross allowance gross allowance
£000 £000 £000 £000
Not past due 31,413 - 43,665 -
Past due 39,005 (1,319) 26,074 (815)
70,418 (1,319) 69,739 (815)
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
gross gross gross gross
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Not yet due 31,413 43,665 - 14
Overdue 1 to 30 Days 16,322 11,257 - -
Overdue 31 to 60 Days 9,323 5,647 - -
Overdue 61 to 90 Days 6,406 2,382 - -
Overdue more than 90 Days 6,954 6,788 - -
70,418 69,739 - 14
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
Group
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
£000 £000
Balance at 1 January 815 1,074
Exchange differences (2) (1)
On acquisition of subsidiaries 442 76
Provided in the year 549 247
Recoveries (103) (343)
Write offs (382) (238)
1,319 815
The Group considers that the trade receivables that have not been provided against and are past due by more than 30 days are still collectible based on historic
payment behaviour and extensive analysis of underlying customers’ credit ratings. Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that apart from the amounts
included in the table above, no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables. There is no provision for impairment of trade receivables in the
Company.
(b) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages its cash resources to ensure that it will
have sufﬁcient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due but in a manner designed to maximise the beneﬁt of those resources whilst ensuring the security of
investment resources.The Group forecasts the proﬁle of its cash requirements on a monthly basis and ensures that sufﬁcient facilities are available to meet peak
requirements which occur at predictable times in the year. The Group manages the maturity proﬁle of its borrowings by maintaining a regular dialogue with its
lenders and ensuring that it commences the renegotiation of facilities sufﬁciently early to allow a comprehensive review of its requirements before completion.
The Group’s revolving credit facilities extend over several accounting periods and fall due for renewal in different accounting periods ensuring that the Group
negotiations with individual lenders follow an orderly process which does not expose the Group to the possibility of a signiﬁcant reduction in available facilities in a
single period. At 31 December 2015, the Group had available £67.4m (2014: £81.4m) of undrawn committed bank facilities. 
The following are the contractual maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities, including interest payments:
31 December 2015
Contractual
Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5
amount ﬂows year years years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 116,550 (125,649) (11) (17,396) (108,242)
Finance lease liabilities 201 (201) (106) (95) -
Trade and other payables 107,540 (107,540) (107,540) - -
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (541) (965) (301) (301) (363)
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Outﬂow (905) (34,823) (31,203) (3,620) -
222,845 (269,178) (139,161) (21,412) (108,605)
31 December 2014
Contractual More
Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
amount ﬂows year years years 5 years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 79,865 (87,775) (2,433) (14,002) (56,907) (14,433)
Finance lease liabilities 88 (88) (54) (34) - -
Trade and other payables 97,059 (97,059) (97,059) - - -
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (651) (1,723) (577) (323) (808) (15)
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
Outﬂow 1,664 (1,563) (1,563) - - -
Inﬂow (23) 13,564 13,564---
178,002 (174,644) (88,122) (14,359) (57,715) (14,448) 27 Financial instruments continued
31 December 2015
Contractual
Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5
amount ﬂows year years years
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 116,550 (125,649) (11) (17,396) (108,242)
Trade and other payables 8,887 (8,887) (8,887) - -
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (541) (965) (301) (301) (363)
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Outﬂow (905) (34,823) (31,203) (3,620) -
123,991 (170,324) (40,402) (21,317) (108,605)
31 December 2014
Contractual More
Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
amount ﬂows year years years 5 years
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 103,809 (111,719) (26,377) (14,002) (56,907) (14,433)
Trade and other payables 17,055 (17,055) (17,055) - - -
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (651) (1,146) (323) (323) (500) -
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:
Outﬂow 1,664 (1,563) (1,563) - - -
Inﬂow (23) 13,564 13,564---
121,854 (117,919) (31,754) (14,325) (57,407) (14,433)
(c) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risks on sales, purchases, cash and borrowings denominated in currencies other than Sterling. These transactional
exposures are exposed to movement in mainly the US Dollar and the Euro. The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its transactional exposures.
Most forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Forward exchange contracts which qualify as effective cash
ﬂow hedges are stated at fair value. The principal translation exposure relates to the Norwegian Kroner.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk in its principal currencies was as follows based on notional amounts:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
USD EUR NOK SGD AUD AKZ USD EUR NOK SGD AUD AKZ
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Trade receivables 20,981 2,826--- 3,324 44,282 2,649 53,271 9,205 4,731 -
Cash at bank and
in hand 1,113 1,719 41 (179) 98 1,471,473 19,569 6,569 3,736 2,027 11,186 589,914
Unsecured bank loans ------ (11,000) -----
Trade payables (2,083) (2,826) (4,142) (129) 13 (5,386) (10,618) (5,639) (14,796) (2,911) (1,503) (318,553)
Gross balance sheet
exposure 20,011 1,719 (4,101) (308) 111 1,469,411 42,233 3,579 42,211 8,321 14,414 271,361
Forecast sales 140,977 17,607 - 565 - - 20,113 1,190 29,050 2,051 4,886 -
Forecast purchases (62,499) (22,256) (1,352) (1,187) (17) - (9,510) (1,550) (9,055) (1,830) (2,265) -
Gross exposure 98,489 (2,930) (5,453) (930) 94 1,469,411 52,837 3,219 62,206 8,542 17,035 271,361
Forward exchange
contracts (51,326) ----- (22,668) 1,956----
Net exposure 47,163 (2,930) (5,453) (930) 94 1,469,411 30,169 5,175 62,206 8,542 17,035 271,361
At 31 December 2015 the Group’s cash balances included £7.4m (2014: £3.7m) denominated in Angolan Kwanza and held in James Fisher Angola Limitada.
A change in Angolan legislation effective from 1 July 2013 required in-country monetary transfers to be transacted in local currency. Exchange control
regulations can potentially impact the transferability of cash balances in certain countries of operation.
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Changes in the level of exchange rates will have an impact on consolidated earnings. The following table shows the impact on earnings of a 5% strengthening in
the exchange rate in the Group’s key currencies against Sterling. The obverse movements would be of the same magnitude. These amounts have been
calculated by applying changes in exchange rates to the Group’s foreign currency proﬁts and losses and to ﬁnancial instruments denominated in foreign
currency.
2015 2014
––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Income Income
Equity statement Equity statement
£000 £000 £000 £000
US Dollar (1,874) (3,972) (1,433) (3,477)
Norwegian Kroner 31 54 (246) (140)
Euro (77) (253) (131) 266
UAE Dirham (454) (46) (365) (44)
Singapore Dollar (331) (309) (408) (251)
Australian Dollar (327) 25 (411) (160)
Malaysian Ringgit (57) (48) (40) 18
South African Rand (50) (231) --
(3,139) (4,780) (3,034) (3,788)
(d) Interest rate risk
The Group uses interest rate swaps to convert interest rates on certain borrowings from ﬂoating rates to ﬁxed hedge exposure to ﬂuctuations in interest rates.
The interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are set out in the table below. 
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed rate instruments:
Financial liabilities (100) (100) (100) (100)
Variable rate instruments:
Financial assets 22,962 17,719 7,629 402
Financial liabilities (116,550) (79,865) (119,431) (103,809)
(93,588) (62,146) (111,802) (103,407)
Where hedging criteria are met the Group classiﬁes interest rate swaps as cash ﬂow hedges and states them at fair value. Over the longer term permanent
changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. At 31 December 2015 a general increase of one percentage point would have had the
following impact:
2015 2014
Income Income
statement statement
£000 £000
Variable rate instruments (936) (621)
Interest rate swap 310 310
Cash ﬂow sensitivity (626) (311)
(e) Fair values
There are no material differences between the book value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and their fair value other than set out below.
2015 2014
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Group Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
Liabilities carried at amortised cost:
Unsecured bank loans 25 (116,550) (115,962) (79,865) (74,727)
Trade and other payables 21 (107,540) (107,540) (87,973) (87,973)
Finance leases 25 (201) (192) (88) (90)
Preference shares 19 (100) (100) (100) (100)
(224,391) (223,794) (168,026) (162,890)
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 27 Financial instruments continued
2015 2014
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Company Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
Liabilities carried at amortised cost:
Overdrafts 25 (2,881) (2,881) (23,944) (23,944)
Unsecured bank loans 25 (113,669) (113,081) (79,865) (74,727)
Trade and other payables 21 (8,887) (8,887) (17,055) (17,055)
Preference shares 19 (100) (100) (100) (100)
(125,537) (124,949) (120,964) (115,826)
Fair value has been determined by reference to the market value at the balance sheet date or by discounting the relevant cash ﬂows using current interest rates
for similar instruments. The fair value of the ﬁnancial assets has been assessed by the Directors with reference to the current prospects of the investments and
risks associated with those prospects.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group classiﬁes fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reﬂects the signiﬁcance of inputs used in making measurements of fair value. The
fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
(a) Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
(b) Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly
(i.e. derived from prices); and
(c) Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Financial instruments carried at fair value are all level 2 as set out below:
Level 2
–––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
Group £000 £000
Financial assets measured at fair value:
Forward exchange contracts - cash ﬂow hedges 2 49
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Forward exchange contracts - cash ﬂow hedges (901) (1,685)
Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives (6) (6)
Interest rate swaps - cash ﬂow hedges (541) (651)
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value:
Unsecured bank loans (115,962) (74,727)
Finance leases - (90)
(117,410) (77,159)
(117,408) (77,110)
Level 2
–––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014
Company £000 £000
Financial assets measured at fair value:
Forward exchange contracts - cash ﬂow hedges 2 49
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Forward exchange contracts - cash ﬂow hedges (901) (1,685)
Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives (6) (6)
Interest rate swaps - cash ﬂow hedges (541) (651)
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value:
Unsecured bank loans (113,081) (74,727)
(114,529) (77,069)
(114,527) (77,020)
There have been no transfers between categories during the period. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts and forward exchange contracts are
calculated by management based on external valuations received from the Group’s bankers and is based on forward exchange rates and anticipated future
interest yields respectively.
86 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Fair value hedges - Group & Company
At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 the Group did not have any outstanding fair value hedges.
Cash ﬂow hedges - Group & Company
At 31 December 2015 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars and Euro. The terms of
the contracts are as follows:
Exchange Fair value
Maturity rate £000
Sell
US$ 51,325,998 January 2016-February 2017 1.51 (845)
Buy
Eur 906,000 January 2016 1.30 (54)
At 31 December 2014 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars and Euro. The terms of
the contracts are as follows:
Exchange Fair value
Maturity rate £000
Sell
US$ 22,668,000 January 2015-February 2016 1.76 (1,659)
Buy
Eur 1,955,587 April 2015-January 2016 1.25 (7)
The foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the expected proﬁle of receipts. At 31 December 2015 these hedges were assessed to be
highly effective and an unrealised loss of £0.8m (2014: £2.6m) relating to the hedging instruments is included in equity.
Interest rate swaps
The Group and Company entered into interest rate swap contracts in respect of Sterling denominated debt to swap a variable rate liability for a ﬁxed rate liability.
These instruments have been allocated against the Group and Company debt in the tables shown above. Details of the contracts and their fair values at
31 December are set out below:
Amount Fair value
–––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 Fixed rate 2015 2014
£000 £000 Maturity % £000 £000
Sterling interest rate swaps 31,000 31,000 30 January 2017 to 30 January 2019 1.03% - 3.71% (541) (651)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments not qualifying as hedges
At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 the Group did not hold any derivative ﬁnancial instruments which did not qualify for hedge accounting.
28 Commitments and contingencies
Operating leases 
The Group has entered into leases on certain properties, vessels, plant and motor vehicles. These leases have a life of between one and ten years and are
renewable at the option of the lessee. The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows:
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
Within one year 14,257 13,101 194 205
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 19,504 16,811 311 243
After ﬁve years 7,563 10,499 523 5
41,324 40,411 1,028 453
Capital commitments
At 31 December capital commitments for which no provision has been made in these accounts amounted to:
Group Company
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2015 2014 2015 2014
£000 £000 £000 £000
928 3,895 - -
Contingent liabilities
(a) In the ordinary course of the Company’s business, counter indemnities have been given to bankers in respect of custom bonds, foreign exchange
commitments and bank guarantees.
(b) A Group VAT registration is operated by the Company and 28 Group undertakings in respect of which the Company is jointly and severally liable for all
amounts due to HM Revenue & Customs under the arrangement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28 Commitments and contingencies continued
(c) A guarantee has been issued by the Group and Company to charter parties in respect of obligations of a subsidiary, James Fisher Everard Limited, in
respect of charters relating to seven vessels. The charters expire between 2016 and 2017.
(d) Subsidiaries of the Group have issued performance and payment guarantees to third parties with a total value of £5.9m (2014: £4.7m).
(e) The Group is liable for further contributions in the future to the MNOPF and MNRPF if additional actuarial deﬁcits arise or if other employers liable for
contributions are not able to pay their share. The Group and Company remains jointly and severally liable for any future shortfall in recovery of the deﬁcit.
(f) The Group has given an unlimited guarantee to the Singapore Navy in respect of the performance of First Response Marine Pte Ltd, its Singapore joint
venture, in relation to the provision of submarine rescue and related activities.
(g) In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given parental and subsidiary guarantees in support of loan and banking
arrangements.
29 Related party transactions
Transactions with related parties
Company
The Company has entered into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings primarily in respect of the provision of accounting services, ﬁnance and the
provision of share options to employees of subsidiaries. The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings to the Company at 31 December 2015 was
£143.1m (2014: £118.8m). Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings by the Company at 31 December 2015 totalled £5.1m (2014: £12.9m). The Company
has had no expense in respect of bad or doubtful debts of subsidiary undertakings in the year (2014: £nil).
Group
FCM businesses
The Group has interests of between 40% and 50% in several joint ventures providing ship-to-ship transfer services in Northern Europe and Asia through its
wholly owned subsidiary, Fendercare Marine Services Limited. Details of transactions with the FCM businesses are set out below.
First Response Marine
The Group holds through its James Fisher Marine Services subsidiary (JFMS) a 50% interest in First Response Marine Pte Ltd (FRM). FRM provides submarine
rescue services to the Singapore government under a 20 year service contract which commenced in March 2009. FRM subcontracts part of the provision of the
submarine rescue service to JFMS’s subsidiary, James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd. JFMS has also provided a loan to FRM of £1.8m to support its day to day
operations. The loan which is included in the Group balance sheet as part of the investment in joint ventures is interest bearing and is repayable at the end of the
project. Interest charged in the period amounted to £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). Dividends received or receivable during the period included in the results of the Group
are £0.6m (2014: £0.5m). 
DivexDomeyer
The Group, through its JFD Limited subsidiary has a 50% stake in DivexDomeyer, an entity which provides in-service support and aftermarket services to
customers in Germany. Details of equipment sales to this entity are set out in the table below.
Eurotestconsult
The Group through its Testconsult Limited subsidiary, has a 50% stake in Eurotestconsult, an entity which provides testing services to customers in Europe.
Details of service sales and recharges for labour and subcontractor works to this entity are set out in the table below.
James Fisher Angola
Loans totalling £2.2m have been advanced by James Fisher Angola Limitada to Bouclier Limitada a company controlled by the Group’s joint venture partner.
The loans which are unsecured and do not carry interest, represent an advance payment in respect of the borrower’s future entitlement to dividends from James
Fisher Angola Limitada. 
Details of the transactions carried out with related parties are shown in the table below:
Purchases Amounts Amounts
Services to Sales to from owed by owed to
related related related related related
parties parties parties parties parties
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
FCM businesses 2015 - 1,848 733 370 289
2014 - 9,332 658 5,159 1,506
First Response Marine 2015 735 2,979 170 828 -
2014 603 2,629 228 661 -
DivexDomeyer 2015 - 228 - 66 -
2014 - 368 - 111 -
Eurotestconsult 2015 - 921 - 207 -
2014 - 1,061 - 137 -
No provision for bad debts has been made in respect of these balances (2014: £nil). No bad debts arose during the period relating to these transactions (2014:
£nil).
All transactions with related parties are priced on an arms length basis on terms equivalent to those provided to wholly external parties.
88 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
30 Signiﬁcant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, are set out below. During the year the
Company and Group have adopted the amendments to IAS 19, Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans: Employee Contributions which has had no ﬁnancial impact.
30.1 Basis of preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated for the periods from or to, which control has passed. Control exists when the Company controls an
investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investees and has the ability to affect those
returns through its power over the investee. Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting from the acquisition date, which
is the date on which control is passed to the Group. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent
company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements.
Payment for the future services from employees or former owners are expensed. Any payments to employees or former owners in respect of the
acquisition of the business are capitalised. This is carefully managed during the acquisition process so that former owners and/or employees do not
receive any incentive payments during an earn out period. 
Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which the Group and one or more third parties have joint control. These joint arrangements are in turn
classiﬁed as:
• Joint ventures whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities;
and
• Joint operations whereby the Group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Any investment in joint ventures is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus the Group’s post acquisition share in the change in net assets of the joint
ventures, less any impairment provision. The income statement reﬂects the Group’s share of the post tax result of the joint ventures. The Group’s share
of any changes recognised by the joint venture in other comprehensive income are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the proportion of proﬁt or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the income
statement and in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position. On the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between the
consideration paid and the fair value of the share of net assets acquired is recognised in equity. Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a
subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deﬁcit balance.
Company investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 
In its separate ﬁnancial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost. Income is recognised from these
investments when its right to receive the dividend is established.
30.2 Foreign currency
(a) Group
The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiary undertakings are prepared in their functional currency which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which they operate. For the purpose of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the results and ﬁnancial position of each entity are
translated into UK Sterling, which is the Group’s presentational currency. 
(i) Foreign currency transactions in functional currency
Transactions in currencies other than the entities functional currency are initially recorded at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the
transaction. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i) Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at rates prevailing on the balance sheet date and any exchange differences
recognised in the income statement;
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are not retranslated;
(iii) Non-monetary items measured at fair value are retranslated using exchange rates at the date the fair value was determined. Where a
gain or loss is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component is also recognised in equity and conversely where a gain or loss
is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component is recognised in the income statement.
(ii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising on monetary items forming part of the Group’s net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings, which are
denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking, are taken directly to the translation reserve and subsequently
recognised in the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment. Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings,
to the extent that they are used to provide an effective hedge against Group equity investments in foreign currency, are taken directly to the
translation reserve.
(iii) Translation from functional currency to presentational currency
The assets and liabilities of operations, where the functional currency is different from the Group’s presentational currency are translated at
the period end exchange rates. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the reporting period. All other
exchange differences on transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income. Tax charges and credits
attributable to exchange differences included in the reserve are also dealt with in the translation reserve. 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
(b) Company
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on settlement of
monetary items or on the retranslation of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recognised, are taken to the
income statement.
All exchange differences on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are taken to the income statement, other than investments in
foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings used to hedge those investments, where exchange differences are taken to the translation
reserve.
30.3 Financial instruments
(a) Loans and receivables
These comprise non-derivative ﬁnancial assets such as trade receivables, with ﬁxed or determinable payments, that are not quoted in an active
market. Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money has a signiﬁcant impact on their value
less any impairment losses. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans or receivables are derecognised, impaired
or amortised.
If in a subsequent period the factors which indicated the original decision to impair the asset cease to exist, then the previously recognised
impairment loss is reversed subject to the revised carrying value of the asset not exceeding its amortised cost at the date the impairment is
reversed. Any reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
(b) Available for sale ﬁnancial assets
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets are non-derivatives that are included as non-current assets unless intended to be disposed of within twelve
months of the balance sheet date. After initial recognition, they are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in the statement
of other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised or deemed to be impaired, at which point the cumulative gain or loss
previously reported in equity is included in the income statement in the period in which it arises. Any impairment loss in respect of an available for
sale asset is transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement and any reversal of impairment losses is not recognised in the
income statement.
Where investments are held in unlisted equity shares where there is no active market the investment is held at cost and is subject to an annual
impairment review.
(c) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are classiﬁed as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. Assets are carried in the
balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement unless designated as a hedging instrument.
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures, primarily relating to the US Dollar, Euro and Norwegian Kroner. It
is also exposed to the risk of interest rate changes in its borrowings. The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage risk, in the form of
foreign currency contracts, to manage foreign exchange risk and interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments for speculative purposes. All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the
date that the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date. Fair value is
calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts with similar maturity proﬁles, and for interest rate swaps determined by reference to
market values for similar instruments. The recognition of the gains or losses arising on these movements in fair value depends on whether a
derivative is designated as a hedge and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group recognises two classes of hedges for derivative ﬁnancial instruments:
• Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or an unrecognised ﬁrm commitment (fair value hedge);
• Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or recognised assets or liabilities (cash ﬂow hedge).
(i) Cash ﬂow hedges
Cash ﬂow hedges can include forward foreign currency contracts if the instrument is related to a foreign currency risk of a ﬁrm commitment, it
involves the same currency as the hedged item; and it reduces the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group’s operations.
Cash ﬂow hedges may also include interest rate swaps where the instrument is related to a recognised asset or a liability and it changes the
character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a ﬁxed rate. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in the
consolidated statement of other comprehensive income. Gains or losses arising on any portion deemed to be ineffective are recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Where the hedge relates to a ﬁrm commitment or forecast transaction which subsequently results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the
cumulative gain or loss relating to that item is removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. Otherwise
the cumulative amount is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the related movements on the
hedged transaction.
When the term of the hedging instrument expires or it is sold, or where the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any
cumulative gain or loss included in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until either the related forecast transaction occurs, in
which case it is recognised in accordance with the policy stated above, or if the hedged transaction is not expected to take place, it is
recognised immediately in the income statement.
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued (ii) Fair value hedges
Where a derivative is designated as a hedge of the variability in the fair value of an asset or liability it is designated as a fair value hedge.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in the income statement at the same time as the related movements in the hedged
asset or liability.
(iii) Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings
All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, which represents the fair value of the consideration received
net of any issue costs associated with other borrowings. Finance charges, including any premiums payable on settlement or redemption of
debt instruments including preference shares and the direct costs of issue, are accounted for on an amortised cost basis in the income
statement. Charges are calculated using the effective interest method, and are recognised in the income statement over the term of such
instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount. 
(iv) Other
Changes in the fair value of any derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting under any of the criteria outlined above are recognised
immediately in the income statement. The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the
balance sheet date. The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using assumptions based on
market conditions at the balance sheet date or discounted cash ﬂow techniques. 
(d) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits included in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity
of three months or less from the original acquisition date. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ﬂow statement comprise cash and
short-term deposits, net of bank overdrafts.
30.4 Intangible assets
Intangible assets excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at cost or fair value less any provision for impairment. 
Intangible assets assessed as having ﬁnite lives are amortised over their estimated useful economic life and are assessed for impairment whenever
there is an indication that they are impaired. Amortisation charges are on a straight line basis and recognised in the income statement. Estimated useful
lives are as follows:
Development costs 5 years or over the expected period of product sales, if less
Intellectual property 3 to 20 years
Patents and licences 5 years or over the period of the licence, if less
Other intangibles 5 years
(a) Goodwill arising on a business combination
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over the
aggregate fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs related to an acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities incurred in connection with a business
combination, are expensed to the income statement. The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment but more regularly if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. When an impairment loss is recognised it is not reversed in a subsequent
accounting period, even if the circumstances which led to the impairment cease to exist.
(b) Acquired intangible assets
Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination including but not limited to customer relationships, supplier lists,
patents and technology and that can be separately measured at fair value on a reliable basis are recorded initially at fair value and amortised
over their expected useful life. Amortisation is expensed to the consolidated income statement.
30.5 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment losses. Reﬁt costs relating to vessels
are capitalised when incurred and amortised over their estimated useful economic life of 30 months. UK cost comprises expenditure incurred during
construction, delivery and modiﬁcation. Where a substantial period of time is required to bring an asset into use, attributable ﬁnance costs are
capitalised and included in the cost of the relevant asset. 
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment to their residual value in equal annual instalments over their estimated
useful lives, as follows:
Freehold property 40 years
Leasehold improvements 25 years or the period of the lease, if shorter
Plant and equipment Between 5 and 20 years
Vessels Between 10 and 25 years
No depreciation is charged on assets under construction.
Residual values of vessels are set initially at 20% of purchase cost or fair value at acquisition, which the Directors believe to be an approximation of
current residual values. Residual values and estimated remaining lives are reviewed annually by the Directors and adjusted if appropriate to reﬂect the
relevant market conditions and expectations, obsolescence and normal wear and tear.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
30.6 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there are any indications that an asset has been impaired. If any indication exists, an estimate of
the recoverable amount of the asset is made which is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. These calculations
are determined for an individual asset unless that asset does not generate cash inﬂows independently from other assets, in which case its value is
determined as part of that group of assets. To assess the value in use, estimated future cash ﬂows relating to the asset are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessment of the time value of money and risks speciﬁc to the asset. Where the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
(a) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated against the appropriate combination of business units deemed to obtain advantage
from the beneﬁts acquired with the goodwill. These are designated as cash generating units (CGU). Impairment is then assessed by comparing
the recoverable amount of the relevant CGU with the carrying value of the CGU’s goodwill. Recoverable amount is measured as the higher of the
CGU’s fair value less cost to sell and the value in use. Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount including
goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairment loss for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(b) Impairment of tangible and other intangible assets
If any indication of a potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss. Assets are
grouped together for this purpose at the lowest level for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows.
(c) Research and development costs
Research expenditure is expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development which represents the application of research to the development of new products or processes is capitalised
provided that speciﬁc projects are identiﬁable, technically feasible, and the Group has sufﬁcient resources to complete development. The useful
life of projects meeting the criteria for capitalisation is determined on a project by project basis. Capitalised development expenditure is
measured at cost and amortised over its expected useful life on a straight line basis. Other development costs are recognised in the income
statement as incurred.
If an event occurs after the recognition of an impairment that leads to a decrease in the amount of the impairment loss previously recognised the
impairment loss is reversed. The reversal is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its
amortised cost at the reversal date.
30.7 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and
condition. Raw materials, consumables stores and ﬁnished goods for sale are stated at purchase cost on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst out basis. Work in progress and
ﬁnished goods are stated at the cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads allocated on a systematic basis based on a normal level
of activity. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and sale or disposal.
30.8 Taxation
Corporation tax is provided on taxable proﬁts from activities not qualifying for tonnage tax relief and is recognised in the income statement except to
the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected corporation tax payable or receivable in respect of the taxable proﬁt for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date, less any adjustments to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities included in the ﬁnancial
statements and the amounts used for tax purposes, that will result in an obligation to pay more, a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the
following exceptions:
- No provision is made where a deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a
business combination that at the time of the transaction affect neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt; and
- No provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests
in joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which
the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences and unused tax losses and credits can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is expected to be
realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax arising on actuarial gains and losses relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension funds is recorded in other comprehensive income. Where the cash
contributions made to the schemes exceed the service costs recognised in the income statement the current tax arising is recorded in other
comprehensive income.
92 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 30.9 Leases
A lease arrangement under which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership rest with the lessee are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases and
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the related item or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and a reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are expensed to the income statement. 
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset. All other leases are classiﬁed as
operating leases and rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
30.10 Pension plans
(a) Deﬁned contribution schemes
Pre-determined contributions paid to a separate privately administered pension plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement in
the period in which they arise. Other than this contribution the Group has no further legal or constructive obligation to make further contributions
to the scheme.
(b) Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
A deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is a pension plan under which the amount of pension beneﬁt that an employee receives on retirement is deﬁned by
reference to factors including age, years of service and compensation. The schemes are funded by payments determined by periodic actuarial
calculations agreed between the Group and the trustees of trustee-administered funds.
The cost of providing beneﬁts is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to beneﬁts to the current period
(current service cost) and to current and prior periods (to determine the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation). Current service costs are
recognised in the income statement in the current year. Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately. When a
settlement (which eliminates all obligations for beneﬁts already accrued) or a curtailment (which reduces future obligations as a result of a
reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and any gain
or loss is recognised in the income statement.
The interest element of the deﬁned beneﬁt charge is determined by applying the discount rate to the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability at the start of the
period and is recognised in the income statement. A liability is recognised in the balance sheet which represents the present value of the deﬁned
beneﬁt obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the scheme assets and is calculated separately for each scheme.
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligations represent the estimated amount of future beneﬁts that employees have earned in return for their services in
current and prior periods, discounted at a rate representing the yield on a high quality corporate bond at the balance sheet date, denominated in
the same currency as the obligations, and having the same terms to maturity as the related pension liability, applied to the estimated future cash
outﬂows arising from these obligations. When the calculation results in a beneﬁt to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic beneﬁts available from any future refunds from the plan or reductions in
future contributions to the plan. 
When the beneﬁts of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased beneﬁt related to past service by employees is recognised in proﬁt or loss
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the beneﬁts become vested. To the extent that the beneﬁts vest immediately, the expense is
recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions
are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
30.11 Share based payments
Executive savings related share option schemes are operated under which options are granted to employees of the Group. An expense is recognised
in the income statement with a corresponding credit to equity in respect of the fair value of employee services rendered in exchange options granted,
which is determined by the fair value of the option at the date of grant. The amount is expensed over a speciﬁed period until the options can be
exercised (the vesting period).
The fair value of an option is determined by the use of mathematical modelling techniques, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the
Binomial model. Non-market vesting conditions (such as proﬁtability and growth targets) are excluded from the fair value calculation but included in
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
An estimate is made of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date. Any adjustments to the original
estimates are recognised in the income statement (and equity) over the remaining vesting period with any element of any adjustments relating to prior
periods recognised in the current period. No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is
conditional upon a market condition (such as total shareholder return of the Group relative to an index). These are treated as vested irrespective of
whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance conditions are satisﬁed.
In addition to failure by the employee to exercise an option in accordance with the exercise period allowed by the scheme, an award made to an
employee under a share option scheme is deemed to lapse when either the scheme is cancelled by the Company, or when an employee, who
continues to qualify for membership of a scheme, ceases to pay contributions to that scheme. In these circumstances the full remaining unexpired cost
of the award is expensed in the period in which the option lapses. 
Where the exercise of options is satisﬁed by the issue of shares by the Company, the nominal value of any shares issued from the exercise of options is
credited to share capital with the balance of the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, credited to share premium.
30.12 Short-term employee beneﬁts
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for short-term employee beneﬁts, including bonuses, only when contractually or constructively
obliged.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
30.13 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Costs attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from equity from the proceeds.
(a) Treasury shares
Shares issued by the Company which are held by the Company or its subsidiary entities (including the James Fisher Employee Share
Trust (ESOT)), are designated as treasury shares. The cost of these shares is deducted from equity. No gains or losses are recognised on the
purchase, sale, cancellation or issue of treasury shares. Consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
(b) Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Company shares are held in an ESOP . The ﬁnance costs and administration costs relating to the ESOP are charged to the income statement.
Dividend income arising on own shares is excluded in arriving at proﬁt before taxation and deducted from aggregate dividends paid. 
The Group maintains the following reserves:
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of operations whose ﬁnancial statements are denominated
in foreign currencies as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments related to hedged
transactions that have not yet occurred.
30.14 Revenue recognition
Revenue, after excluding trade discounts and value added tax, represents the provision of goods and services by the Group in the normal course of
business and is recognised when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer. The transfer of risks and rewards is
assumed to pass to the customer on delivery of the goods or completion of the provision of the relevant services. When the Group acts as a lessor,
revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire.
(a) Construction contracts
(i) General
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs relating to it are recognised in accordance with
the stage of completion of the contract, in the period in which the work is performed. To assess a construction contract at the outset, total
contract costs are established by using supplier quotes for third party costs, internal hours based on experience, the nature of the project
and the time taken for similar projects in the past, to which current labour rates are applied. The stage of completion is assessed by
reference to physical progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured against the expected outcome based on the most
appropriate method for the speciﬁc type of contract. Construction contract costs are monitored on a monthly basis and total expected
costs (incurred costs to date and expected costs to complete) are reviewed against the original cost budget. Progress made is reviewed to
assess whether the long-term project is progressing in accordance with the planned level of completion on a regular basis. Any cost
overruns resulting in an expected total cost in excess of original budget results in a reduced margin being accounted for on the revenue
recognised to date. Revenue from the contract is under the percentage of completion method by reference to the assessed stage of
completion of the contract. Pre-determined ratios or percentages are not used in the estimation process. 
In determining whether the outcome of a construction contract can be assessed reliably, the Group considers the nature of each contract,
the experience of the project manager with this type of contract, whether it is similar to contracts delivered in the past, the customer, the
time period over which the contract runs and forms a view of the likely risk in estimating the project outcome.
Contract costs incurred that relate to future activity are deferred and recognised as inventory. When a loss is expected to be incurred on a
construction contract it is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement. When the outcome of a construction contract
cannot be estimated reliably no proﬁt is recognised. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that costs incurred will be
recovered.
(ii) Bid costs
All bid costs incurred relating to contracts for the design, manufacture or operation of assets or the provision of services to third parties are
expensed to the income statement as incurred, except for those costs incurred after the point at which the contract award is virtually
certain. Directly attributable costs incurred subsequent to this point are included within contract costs and amortised over the life of the
initial period of the contract to which they relate. 
(b) Warranty costs
Provision is made for warranties offered with products where it is probable that an obligation to transfer economic beneﬁts to the customer in
future will arise. This provision is based on management’s assessment of the previous history of claims and probability of future obligations
arising on a product by product basis. Provisions for warranty costs included in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 were £0.6m
(31 December 2014: £1.8m).
94 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued 30.15 Non-current assets held for sale
On classiﬁcation as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses
on initial classiﬁcation as held for sale are included in proﬁt or loss, as are any gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement.
30.16 Intra Group ﬁnancial instruments
Where the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtness of other companies within the Group, the Company
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as a
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
31 Signiﬁcant accounting judgements and estimates
Financial and business risks
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial and business risks. Where possible the Group seeks to minimise these risks through its risk management
policies. 
Pensions
The Group primarily provides pensions to its employees through deﬁned contribution schemes but also has deﬁned beneﬁt obligations. The valuation of these
deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is subject to a high degree of volatility arising from their exposure to changes in bond yields and equity values, and sensitivity to
changes in actuarial assumptions, such as to life expectancy. This makes it difﬁcult to predict future potential liabilities with any certainty. Certain deﬁned beneﬁt
obligations relate to industry-wide schemes which are funded by current and former employers to the shipping industry. The risk of corporate failure of any of the
participants could lead to an increase in the Group’s share of liability.
Impairment of goodwill and other assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any permanent impairment in accordance with the accounting policy in note 12. The Group reviews the
carrying value of all assets for indications of impairment at each balance sheet date. If indicators of impairment exist the carrying value of the asset is subject to
further testing to determine whether its carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount represents the higher of the asset’s fair value
less costs to sell and its value in use, which is determined by measuring the discounted cash ﬂows arising from the asset.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration arises on acquisitions and is usually related to the achievement of ﬁnancial performance targets relating to proﬁts over an agreed
period. The outcome of these arrangements depends on a number of factors outside the control of the business including, but not limited to, competition,
general economic conditions and the availability of resources within the business to meet its obligations to its customers. The Group regularly assesses the
likelihood of the targets being achieved during the performance period and makes appropriate adjustments to the provision for contingent consideration through
the income statement.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured
reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable. The timing of the transfer of risks and rewards will vary depending on the terms of the sales agreement,
the evaluation of the speciﬁc risks associated with the performance of the contract (for example design, construction and testing) or generally accepted practice
where there are no speciﬁc arrangements in the contract.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions. Signiﬁcant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are many
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for
anticipated tax risk issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts
that were initially recorded, such difference will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
The Group has entered the UK tonnage tax regime under which tax on its ship owning and operating activities is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Income and proﬁts outside this regime are taxed under normal tax rules. This means that it is necessary to make estimates of the allocation of some income and
expenses between tonnage and non tonnage tax activities. These estimates are subject to agreement with the relevant tax authorities and may be revised in
future periods. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Marine Support 192,978 164,150 171,267 157,387 117,252
Offshore Oil 62,956 104,880 99,190 83,359 71,211
Specialist Technical 129,443 121,461 81,898 60,678 52,356
Tankships 52,553 54,308 61,312 61,824 66,805
437,930 444,799 413,667 363,248 307,624
Underlying operating proﬁt
Marine Support 19,352 14,150 18,262 19,341 18,380
Offshore Oil 7,399 22,426 19,690 17,131 12,783
Specialist Technical 13,907 13,338 7,755 5,473 6,902
Tankships 7,164 4,711 3,989 2,405 1,145
Common costs (2,232) (3,088) (3,059) (3,201) (3,077)
45,590 51,537 46,637 41,149 36,133
Net ﬁnance costs (4,343) (4,684) (5,289) (6,160) (6,128)
Underlying proﬁt before taxation 41,247 46,853 41,348 34,989 30,005
Separately disclosed items 4,967 2,381 4,875 11,388 (254)
Proﬁt before taxation 46,214 49,234 46,223 46,377 29,751
Taxation (5,507) (8,751) (7,475) (6,312) (5,634)
Proﬁt after taxation 40,707 40,483 38,748 40,065 24,117
Intangible assets 156,455 127,130 113,658 92,633 93,188
Property, plant and equipment 127,594 116,629 108,202 103,484 103,898
Investment in associates and joint ventures 7,728 10,625 10,845 13,761 13,904
Working capital 68,082 49,518 44,831 49,059 52,824
Contingent consideration (14,465) (9,086) (12,082) - -
Pension obligations (26,956) (21,806) (23,141) (27,061) (30,133)
Taxation (4,154) (6,486) (4,228) (4,838) (3,209)
Capital employed 314,284 266,524 238,085 227,038 230,472
Net borrowings 93,889 62,334 54,278 63,122 98,793
Equity 220,395 204,190 183,807 163,916 131,679
314,284 266,524 238,085 227,038 230,472
pence pence pence pence pence
Earnings per share
Basic 79.7 80.2 76.6 79.1 48.4
Diluted 79.2 79.2 75.7 78.5 48.0
Underlying basic 69.0 74.9 66.3 55.6 48.8
Underlying diluted 68.5 74.0 65.6 55.1 48.4
Dividends declared per share 23.8 22.0 20.0 17.7 16.1
Other key performance indicators
Operating margin (%) 10.4% 11.6% 11.3% 11.3% 11.7%
Return on capital employed (post tax) (%) 13.5% 16.5% 16.9% 15.3% 13.0%
Net Gearing (%) 43.0% 30.7% 29.6% 38.6% 74.9%
Dividend cover (underlying earnings) (times) 2.9 3.4 3.3 3.1 3.0
James Fisher and Sons plc
Group financial record
for the ﬁve years ended 31 December Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Subsidiary undertakings
James Fisher and Sons plc
Subsidiaries and associated undertakings
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
or registration
Group
percentage of
equity capital Name of company
Country of
incorporation
or registration
Group
percentage of
equity capital
Marine Support
Clariden Holdings SA Liberia 100% JCM Scotload Ltd UK 100%
FCEA Ltd BVI 80%** Load Test Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100%
FCN Limited BVI 100% Maritime Engineers (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore 100%
Fender Care (Changshu) Ltd China 100% Maritime Engineers Pty Ltd Australia 100%
Fender Care Americas Inc USA 100% Mojo Maritime Limited UK 100%
Fender Care do Brasil Comercio E Servicos Navais L TDA Brazil 100% Mojo Maritime SAS France 100%
Fender Care Limited UK 100% Mojo Ocean Dynamics Limited UK 100%
Fender Care Marine (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore 100% Namibia Subtech Diving and Marine (Pty) Ltd Namibia 100%
Fender Care Marine (Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar 100% Osiris Marine Services Limited UK 100%
Fender Care Marine Ltd UK 100% Osiris Underwater Engineering Services Limited UK 100%
Fender Care Marine Products (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore 100% Prolec Limited UK 100%
Fender Care Marine Services Group Limited UK 100% Scotload Ltd UK 100%
Fender Care Marine Sohar LLC Oman 70% Strainstall Engineering Services Limited UK 100%
Fender Care Marine Solutions Limited UK 100% Strainstall Group Limited UK 100%*
Fender Care Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100% Strainstall Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100%
Fender Care Norway AS Norway 100% Strainstall Middle East Limited Cayman Islands 100%
Fendercare Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100% Strainstall Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100%
Fendercare Marine Ghana Limited Ghana 51% Strainstall UK Limited UK 100%
Fendercare Marine West Limited Cayman Islands 100% Subtech (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100%
Fendercare Services Marinhos do Brasil L TDA Brazil 100% Subtech (Pty) Ltd – Mozambique branch Mozambique 100%
Ground Handling Services Inc USA 100% Subtech Diving & Marine Tanzania Limited Tanzania 100%
Imogen Marine Company Marshall Islands 100% Subtech Group Holdings (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100%
Inastros Navigation Company Marshall Islands 100% Subtech Marine (Pty) Ltd Namibia 70%
Integrated Mooring Solutions Limited UK 100% Subtech Norte Lda Mozambique 100%
James Fisher Fender Care Limited UK 100%* Subtech Offshore (GB II) Mauritius Mauritius 100%
James Fisher Marine Services Limited UK 100%* Subtech South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100%
James Fisher MFE Limited UK 100% Testconsult Harlow Limited UK 100%
James Fisher MIMIC Limited UK 100%* Testconsult Ireland Limited Ireland 100%
James Fisher Servicos Empresariais Ltda Brazil 100% Testconsult Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Subsea Limited UK 100% Vision Marine Ltd Liberia 100%
Offshore Oil
Buchan Technical Services Limited UK 100%* Pump Tools Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Air Supply Norway Limited UK 100% RMSPumptools FZE Dubai 100%
James Fisher and Sons (Seafloor Dynamex) Limited UK 100%* RMSPumptools Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Eiendom AS Norway 100% Scan T ech AS Norway 100%
James Fisher Marine Services Malaysia Ltd Malaysia 100% Scan Tech Produkt Personell AS (GMC) Norway 100%
James Fisher Marine Services Middle East Limited FZCO Dubai 100% Scantech Offshore do Brasil Comercio E Servicos Ltda Brazil 100%
James Fisher Norway AS Norway 100%* Scantech Offshore Limited UK 100%*
James Fisher Offshore Limited UK 100%* Scantech Offshore Pty Ltd Australia 100%
James Fisher Offshore Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100% Scantech Offshore UK Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Offshore PTE Ltd Singapore 100% ScanTech Personell AS Norway 100%
James Fisher Subsea Excavation Incorporated USA 100% Solmead Limited UK 70%
James Fisher Subsea Excavation Mexico SA de CV Mexico 100% Strata Oil Tools Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Subsea Excavation Pte. Limited Singapore 100% Solvapli Limited UK 51%
Monyana Engineering Services Limited UK 100% 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Subsidiaries and associated undertakings continued
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
or registration
Group
percentage of
equity capital Name of company
Country of
incorporation
or registration
Group
percentage of
equity capital
Specialist T echnical
Divex (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 100% James Fisher Defence Sweden AB Sweden 100%
Divex Asia Pacific Pty Ltd Australia 100% James Fisher Inspection and Measurement Services Limited UK 100%
Divex FZE UAE 100% James Fisher Nuclear Limited UK 100%
Harsh Environment Systems Limited UK 100% James Fisher Rumic Limited UK 100%*
Hatch Holdings Limited UK 100% James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100%
High Technology Sources Limited UK 100% James Fisher Technologies LLC USA 51%
Hyperco Holdings Limited UK 100% JF Nuclear Limited UK 100%
Inspection Holdings Limited UK 100% JFD Limited UK 100%
Integrated Safety Management Limited UK 100% National Hyperbaric Centre PTE Ltd Singapore 100%
James Fisher (Ro-Ro) Limited UK 100%* NDT (Inspection & Testing) Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100% Raygen Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Defence Italy SRL Italy 100% Remac Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Defence Limited UK 100% The National Hyperbaric Centre Limited UK 100%
James Fisher Defence North America Limited USA 100%
Tankships
Cattedown Wharves Limited UK 100% James Fisher (Shipping Services) Limited UK 100%*
Everard (Guernsey) Ltd Guernsey 100% James Fisher Everard Limited UK 100%
F .T . Everard Shipping Limited UK 100% James Fisher Tankships Holdings Limited UK 100%*
F .T .Everard & Sons Limited UK 100%* Onesimus Dorey Ltd Guernsey 100%*
James Fisher (Crewing Services) Limited UK 100%* Scottish Navigation Company Limited UK 100%
James Fisher (Guernsey) Limited Guernsey 100% James Fisher (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand 100%*
Holding Companies
James Fisher (Aberdeen) Limited UK 100%* JF Australia Holding Pty Ltd Australia 100%
James Fisher Holdings UK Limited UK 100%* JF Nordvik Limited Jersey 100%*
James Fisher Nuclear Holdings Limited UK 100%* JF Overseas Limited UK 100%*
James Fisher Properties Limited UK 100%* JF (Southern Africa) Ltd UK 100%*
* held by the Parent Company (all other subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary)
** consolidated as subsidiary undertakings
Associated undertakings and signiﬁcant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary undertakings
Marine Support
Active Load Limited UK 20% Fendercare Marine Omega India Private Limited India 50%
Asteria Navigation Inc Liberia 45% James Fisher Angola Limitada Angola 49%
Eurotestconsult Limited Ireland 50% James Fisher Angola UK Limited UK 50%
Eurotestconsult UK Limited UK 50% Lome Offshore Services Inc Marshall Islands 45%
Fender Care Benelux B.V . Netherlands 50% Offshore Lightering Services Ltd Marshall Islands 45%
Fender Care Marine (Malaysia) SDN BHD Malaysia 49% Silvertide Navigation Inc Liberia 45%
Fender Care Marine LLC Fujariah 49%** Strainstall Laboratories WLL Qatar 49%**
Fender Care Marine Omega Middle East FZC UAE 50% Strainstall Middle East LLC Dubai 49%**
Fender Care Marine Services LLC Abu Dhabi 49%** Strainstall Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 49%**
Fender Care Middle East LLC Sharjah 49%** Strainstall Testing Lab L.L.C Abu Dhabi 49%**
Fender Care Viking SDN BHD Malaysia 30% Work Boat Services Inc Marshall Islands 45%
Fendercare Marine Agency Pte.Ltd Indonesia 50%
Specialist T echnical
Divex Domeyer GmbH Germany 50% First Response Marine Pte Ltd Singapore 50% Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of James Fisher and Sons plc will be held at the Abbey House
Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, LA13 0PA on Thursday 28 April 2016 at 11.00am to consider and, if thought ﬁt, to
pass Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 14 to 16 as special resolutions.
Ordinary Business
Resolution 1
To receive the Annual Accounts and the reports of the Directors’ and the auditor thereon for the year ended 31 December
2015.
Resolution 2
To approve the Annual statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual report on remuneration
for the year ended 31 December 2015 as set out on page 33 and on pages 39 to 45 (inclusive) in the Annual Report and
Accounts.
Resolution 3
To declare a ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 16.0p per ordinary share.
Resolution 4
To re-elect Mr C J Rice as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 5
To re-elect Mr N P Henry as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 6
To re-elect Mr S C Kilpatrick as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 7
To re-elect Mr M S Paul as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 8
To re-elect Ms A I Comiskey as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 9
To re-elect Mr D G Moorhouse as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 10
To re-elect Mr M J L Salter as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 11
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold ofﬁce until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Resolution 12
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
Special Business
Resolution 13
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section
551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to
grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into, shares in the Company (Rights) up to an aggregate nominal
amount of £4,180,344 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on
30 June 2017, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority
which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be
entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired; and, that
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notice of Annual General Meeting all authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot shares and grant Rights that remain unexercised at the
commencement of this meeting be and are hereby revoked.
Resolution 14
Special Resolution
That subject to the passing of Resolution 13, the Directors be and are hereby given power to allot equity securities (as
deﬁned in section 560 of the Act) of the Company for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 13
and/or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560(2)(b) of the Act, in either case as
if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to:
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on
the register of members at such record date as the Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate
therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are
proportionate (as nearly as may be practicable) to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held
by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem
necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under
the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares
being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter; and
(b) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above) to any person or persons of equity securities up to
an aggregate nominal amount of £627,052;
and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, save that the Company shall be
entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be
allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement
as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolution 15
Special Resolution
The Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make
one or more market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) on the London Stock Exchange of up to a
maximum aggregate of 2,508,207 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company at a price per share (exclusive
of expenses) of not less than 25p and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary
share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Ofﬁcial List, for the ﬁve business days immediately preceding the day of
purchase; unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, such authority will expire at the close of the next AGM of the
Company, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2017 save that the Company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date where such
purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
Resolution 16
Special Resolution
That any general meeting (other than an AGM) may be called by not less than 14 days’ clear notice.
By order of the Board
Michael Hoggan
Company Secretary
1 March 2016
Registered ofﬁce:
Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness,
Cumbria, LA14 1HR
Registered in England number: 211475
100 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes
1. Any member who has not elected to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015 may obtain copies by writing to
the Company Secretary, Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR. Members who wish to
receive the printed Annual Report and Accounts, free of charge, in future years should write to the Company’s
Registrars, FREEPOST CAPITA SAS. Please note that delivery using this service can take up to 5 business days.
2. Any member entitled to vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on a
show of hands or on a poll, instead of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the
meeting in order to represent a member. A proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or (if you
wish the proxy to speak on your behalf) another person who has agreed to attend and represent a member. Details of
how to appoint the Chairman or another person as a proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy
form. A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to
exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him. Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member
from attending and voting in person, in which case that member’s proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Proxy forms, duly executed (including any authority under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certiﬁed
notarially), should be returned to Capita Asset Services, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
Alternatively you may submit your proxy form online by accessing the shareholder portal at www.capitashareportal.com,
logging in and selecting the “proxy voting” link. If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you
will ﬁrst be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your investor code (which can be found on your
proxy card, share certiﬁcate or dividend tax voucher), family name and post code (if resident in the UK). In each case
your proxy instruction must be received no later than 11.00am on 26 April 2016. If you are a CREST member, see note
4 below. The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions, and any
attempt to amend a proxy appointment after the relevant deadline will be disregarded. Where two or more valid proxy
appointments are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall
be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
3. The right to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy
information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (Nominated Person): they can only be exercised by
the member. However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by
whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed. If a
Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an
agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights. Nominated persons should contact the
registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
4. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service
may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/CREST).
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a
voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the
appropriate action on their behalf. In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the
appropriate CREST message (a CREST Proxy Instruction) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear
UK & Ireland Limited’s (EUI) speciﬁcations and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described
in the CREST Manual. The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment
to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received
by the issuer’s agent (ID number – RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments speciﬁed in the notice
of meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to
the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry
to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁcated Securities Regulations 2001.
5. Voting by corporate representatives. A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or
persons to act as its representative(s) at the AGM. In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each
such representative may exercise (on behalf of the corporation) the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it
were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when
attending the general meeting. Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
6. Copies of the Directors’ service contracts, the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, together with a
copy of the Company’s Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during
normal business hours on any weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted) until the close of
the AGM and are available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 10.30am on the date of the meeting until the
close of the meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 7. Audit statements. Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the
Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting, that the members
propose to raise at the meeting. The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its
expenses. Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Company’s auditor no later than the time it
makes its statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any
statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
8. Members’ questions. The Company must cause to be answered at the meeting any question relating to the business
being dealt with at the meeting which is put by a member attending the meeting, except where: (a) to do so would
interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of conﬁdential information; (b) the answer
has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the
Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
9. A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.james-
ﬁsher.com. A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or with any
proxy appointment form or in any website for communication with the Company for any purpose in relation to the
meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
10. Only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 26 April 2016 (or, if the meeting is
adjourned, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote
at the meeting or adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in
determining the rights of persons to attend or vote (and the number of votes they may cast) at the meeting or
adjourned meeting.
11. As at 1 March 2016 (being the latest practical date before the publication of this Notice), the Company’s issued share
capital consists of 50,164,133 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and 100,000 preference shares carrying one
vote each. Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 50,264,133. There are no shares in treasury.
12. As soon as practicable following the AGM, the results of the voting at the meeting and the number of votes cast for and
against and the number of votes withheld in respect of each resolution will be announced via a Regulatory Information
Service and also placed on the Company’s website at www.james-ﬁsher.com.
102 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Ordinary Business Explanatory Notes
Resolution 1 – Annual Report
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report before the Company in general
meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents. The Annual Report comprises the accounts,
the auditor’s report, the Directors’ report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the Strategic report. The Company
proposes, as an ordinary resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance
Code (Code).
Resolution 2 – Approval of the Annual statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and the Annual report on remuneration 
The Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Annual Statement by the chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and the Annual report on remuneration for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2015. The Annual statement
and the Annual report on remuneration are set out on page 33 and on pages 39 to 45 of the Annual Report. The vote on this
resolution is advisory only and the Directors’ entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed. The
Company’s auditor, KPMG LLP , has audited those parts of the Directors’ remuneration report that are required to be audited.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006), a separate resolution on the remuneration policy
(Policy) part of the Directors’ remuneration report must be approved by shareholders at least every three years, unless during
that time it is to be changed. The current Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and the Directors do not
propose any changes to the Policy this year. The Policy is therefore not required to be approved at this year’s AGM.
Resolution 3 – Declaration of ﬁnal dividend
A ﬁnal dividend can only be paid after it has been approved by the shareholders in general meeting and may not exceed the
amount recommended by the Board. The Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 16.0p per ordinary share in respect of the
ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2015. If the meeting approves Resolution 3, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 6 May 2016
to ordinary shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016. It is proposed to pay the dividend.
Resolutions 4 to 10 – Re-election and election of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors will retire each year and that each Director must
stand for re-election at least every three years. However, in accordance with the provision of the Code all Directors will retire
from ofﬁce and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
Following performance reviews the Chairman and the Board believe that each of the Directors standing for re-election
continue to perform effectively and with commitment to their role including commitment of time for Board and Committee
meetings and other duties. The Board also considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent in character
and judgement. Each of Resolutions 4 to 10 shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions. Biographical details of each of our
Directors appear on page 24 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 11 and 12 – Re-appointment of auditor/auditor’s remuneration
The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, to
hold ofﬁce until the conclusion of the next such meeting. These resolutions propose the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the
Company’s auditor to hold ofﬁce from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which
accounts are laid before the Company, and authorises the Audit Committee to agree the auditor’s remuneration.
Special Business Explanatory Notes
Resolution 13 – Authority to allot shares
Authority is given to the Directors to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any
security into shares in the Company up to a total nominal amount of £4,180,344 (16,721,376 ordinary shares) representing
approximately 33% of the nominal value of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital as at 1 March 2016 being the
latest practical date before publication of this Notice. The authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in
2017, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2017 and replaces an authority granted on 30 April 2015 which expires at the conclusion of
the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority. 
At 1 March 2016 the Company does not hold any treasury shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Resolution 14 – Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders
This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last
year’s AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without ﬁrst offering them to existing shareholders in
proportion to their existing shareholdings. Other than in connection with a rights or other similar issue or scrip dividend
(where difﬁculties arise in offering shares to certain overseas shareholders and in relation to fractional entitlements) the
authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of £627,052 (representing 2,508,207
ordinary shares) which represents approximately 5% of the Company’s issued equity share capital as at 1 March 2016, being
the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice. The renewed authority will remain in force until the AGM to
be held in 2017, or on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier and replaces the authority granted on 30 April 2015 which
expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM. It is a standard resolution for most UK listed companies each year.
In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis
over the last three years and the Directors conﬁrm their intention to follow the best practice set out in the Pre-Emption
Group’s Statement of Principles which provides that companies should not issues shares for cash representing more than
7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior
consultation with shareholders.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
Resolution 15 – Authority to purchase own shares
This special resolution, gives the Company authority to purchase in the market up to 2,508,207 of its ordinary shares of 25p
each (representing approximately 5% of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital). The minimum and maximum
prices at which such shares can be purchased is as stated in the resolution. The authority will expire at the conclusion of the
AGM to be held in 2017, or on 30 June 2017, whichever is earlier, and replaces a similar authority granted on 30 April 2015
which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
If any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority are not held by the Company as treasury shares then such shares
would be immediately cancelled in which event the number of ordinary shares in issue would be reduced. As at 1 March
2016, being the latest practical date before publication of this Notice, there were options over ordinary shares in the capital
of the Company representing 2.21% of the Company’s total issued share capital. If the authority to purchase the Company’s
ordinary shares was exercised in full and those shares were subsequently cancelled, these options would represent 2.32% of
the Company’s total issued share capital. The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority and in reaching
their decision to purchase ordinary shares will take into account, amongst other things, the Company’s cash resources and
capital requirements, the effect of any purchase on earnings per share and whether it is in the best interests of shareholders
generally.
Resolution 16 – Authority to hold general meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice.
This special resolution renews an authority given at last year’s AGM and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006
Act. The Company is currently able to call general meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice. In order to be able
to preserve this ability, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days’ notice. Resolution 16, which is
proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next AGM, when it
is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the ﬂexibility is
merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation
The Directors consider that the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company
and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to
do in respect of their own holdings of shares in the Company.
104 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Investor information
Company Secretary
and registered ofﬁce
M J Hoggan
James Fisher and Sons plc
Fisher House, PO Box 4
Barrow-in-Furness
Cumbria LA14 1HR
Registered no. 211475
Registrar
Capita Asset Services
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Auditor
KPMG LLP
1 St Peters Square
Manchester M2 3AE
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Barclays Commercial Bank
1st Floor
3 Hardman Street
Spinningﬁelds
Manchester M3 3HF
DBS Bank Ltd
London Branch
4th Floor
Paternoster House
65 St Paul’s Churchyard
London EC4M 8AB
Handelsbanken 
First Floor East 
Bridge Mills 
Stramongate 
Kendal LA9 4UB
HSBC Bank plc 
2nd Floor
4 Hardman Square
Spinningﬁelds
Manchester M3 3EB
Lloyds Bank plc 
8th Floor
40 Spring Gardens 
Manchester M2 1EN
Merchant bankers
E C Hambro Rabben and Partners Ltd
32-33 St James’s Place
London 
SW1A 1NR
Brokers
Investec Bank (UK) Limited
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
N+1 Singer
Earl Grey House
75-85 Grey Street
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
NE1 6EF
7 April 2016
Ex dividend date for 2015 ﬁnal dividend
8 April 2016
Record date
28 April 2016
Annual General Meeting
6 May 2016
Payment of 2015 ﬁnal dividend
August 2016
Announcement of 2016 interim results
Registered Ofﬁce and Advisers Financial Calendar
Disclaimer
This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company only. The Company, its Directors, employees and
agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements that are
subject to future matters including, amongst other matters, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time
to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates and the availability of ﬁnancing to the Group. As such the
forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty. Accordingly, whilst it is believed the expectations reﬂected in these
statements are reasonable at the date of publication of this Annual Report they may be affected by a wide range of matters
which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements will not be
updated during the year. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast. Fisher House
PO Box 4
Barrow-in-Furness
Cumbria
LA14 1HR
T: 01229 615 400
F: 01229 836 761
E: enquiries@james-ﬁsher.com
This Report has been printed in the UK. Our printers are environmental management 
system ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) chain of custody-
certiﬁed. This paper is environmentally friendly ECF (elemental chlorine-free) and wood-
free with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully 
FSC-certiﬁed. The paper is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have ﬁnished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on 
to other interested readers, return it to James Fisher and Sons plc or dispose of it in your 
recycled paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at www.james-ﬁsher.com
Designed and produced by Sterling www.sterlingfp.com
