 J Sainsbury plc
Annual Report  
and Financial  
Statements  
2015
We will make  
our customers’ 
lives easier.
Great quality.
Great prices.
Whenever and  
wherever. Our vision
To be the most trusted retailer  
where people love to work and shop.
 
Our goal
To make all our customers’ lives  
easier every day by offering great 
quality and service at fair prices.
 
How we do it
We have the right size stores in the  
right locations; we are known for  
great customer service; and for nearly 
150 years, we have offered great quality 
products at fair prices. Our values  
and our ethos have never changed.
 
But the dynamics of the industry do 
change and are changing today more 
rapidly than ever before, not least the 
way people shop. So this year we took  
a new look at our strategy to ensure 
our business evolves and that we 
continue to provide what customers 
want, when, where and how they 
want it. 
Key to our strategy is knowing our 
customers better than anyone else. 
Read more in our Strategic Report. PB 1
Strategic Report
Contents Financial highlights
Strategic Report
1 Financial highlights
2 Business model
4 Chairman’s letter
6 Chief Executive’s letter
8 Market context
10  Great products and services at fair prices
14 There for our customers
18 Colleagues making the difference
20  We know our customers better than 
anyone else
22 Our values make us different
24 Strategic KPIs
26 Financial KPIs
28 Our principal risks and uncertainties
31 Financial Review
Directors’ Report
40 Board of Directors
42 Operating Board
44 Corporate Governance
49 Nomination Committee
51  Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee
53 Audit Committee
58 Directors’ Remuneration Report
74 Other disclosures
76  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
77  Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of  
J Sainsbury plc
82 Group income statement
83  Group statement of  
comprehensive income
84 Balance sheets
85 Cash flow statements
8 6  G r o u p st a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity
8 7  C o m p a n y st a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity
88 Notes to the financial statements
141 Five year financial record
142 Additional shareholder information
145 Glossary
146 Achievements
Underlying Group sales 
(0.9)
%
(including VAT, including fuel)
Like-for-like retail sales
(1.9)
%
(including VAT, excluding fuel)
Underlying profit before tax
£681m
Down 14.7%
Return on capital employed  
9.7%
Down 157 bps
Underlying basic earnings per share
26.4p
Down 19.5%
Full-year dividend per share
13.2p
Down 23.7%
Find out more at  
j-sainsbury.co.uk/strategy 2 3
Strategic Report
Business model
Our values make 
us different
1
Best for food  
and health
2
Sourcing with 
integrity
3
Respect for our 
environment
Logistics Great products 
and services  
at fair prices
15,000 
own-brand 
products
There for our 
customers
707 
Convenience  
stores
Colleagues 
making the 
difference
24,000 
colleagues  
with over  
20 years’  
service
Suppliers  
and sourcing
How we are organised to grow 
value for our shareholders
1.2 million
store 
deliveries 
this year
23 depots
5 
International 
sourcing 
offices
Around 2,000 
food suppliers 
and 1,000 
non-food 
suppliers 2 3
Strategic Report
5
A great place  
to work
4
Making a positive 
difference to our 
community
168 
Travel Money 
bureaux 1,575 
ATMs
597 
Supermarkets
Nearly 215,000 
Online orders  
per week
24,000 
colleagues  
with over  
20 years’  
service
We know our 
customers 
better than 
anyone else
Nearly 
15.5 million 
Nectar card 
customers
Name Badge
24.5 million 
total transactions 
per week
8  
training colleges  
for our colleagues
Around  
820 million 
Brand Match 
vouchers 
issued to 
date
161,000  
colleagues 
Nearly 430  
supermarkets  
with clothing  
and general 
merchandise
Around 4,000  
people reached 
online each 
week through 
‘Trolley Talk’
BRAND  
MATCH
Nectar Our job is to grow 
shareholder value over 
the medium and long 
term and we are 
confident that we  
can achieve this
Chairman’s letter
David Tyler,
Chairman
Dear Shareholder, 
The UK grocery market is in the midst 
of major change as customers have 
significantly adjusted their shopping 
habits in recent years. People go grocery 
shopping more often, buy fewer items 
on each visit and are constantly looking 
for ways to make their lives more 
convenient. This trend has triggered 
significant growth in both convenience 
and discount stores but has adversely 
affected sales in supermarkets. 
Strategic Report This decline in profit is much less than that experienced by other major players in the market, but 
this is not of great comfort to your Board. Our job is to grow shareholder value over the medium and 
long term and we are confident, following the strategic review we conducted last summer, that we 
can achieve this despite the current trends in the grocery market. 
We have a very strong brand and broad customer base, and we are building on this. We know our 
customers better than anyone else and are making progress with our strategy of offering a wide 
range of products and services across food and non-food with our very particular focus on quality, 
customer service and value. Our food business is sustainable and trusted by our customers.  
We are already the seventh largest retailer of clothing in the UK by volume, we have a growing 
general merchandise business and Sainsbury’s Bank shows great promise. We aim to grow in all 
these non-food areas where we believe there are good profit opportunities.
This is your Board’s first report since Mike Coupe became Chief Executive last July. He has made 
a strong start and he leads a highly experienced and capable management team. We believe it is 
the team within our industry that is best positioned to succeed. Our recent initiatives such as our 
investment in price and quality are showing encouraging early signs – with volume and transaction 
growth coming through. 
Our business is built on strong foundations and we have been able to take our decisions from 
a position of financial stability. We are making significant cost savings and reducing capital 
expenditure to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. We are also committed to ensuring we 
pay an affordable dividend and are fixing our dividend policy to two times cover over the next three 
years. With this in mind, we are recommending a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share this year, 
making the proposed full-year dividend 13.2 pence per share. 
Our colleagues are our greatest asset. With their commitment and talent, they remain central to 
Sainsbury’s success. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our colleagues for their hard work 
and dedication to Sainsbury’s during this challenging year. They have dealt professionally with 
the far-reaching changes associated with our strategy and I am pleased to be able to announce a 
bonus of over £50 million to be shared by colleagues, compared with £80 million last year when 
profits were higher.
Our values are as important as ever and our priority is to ensure we work hard to achieve our 
objectives in the areas our customers really care about. This makes good business sense and also 
gives us real competitive advantage.
At the AGM, Gary Hughes is stepping down from the Board after ten years as a Non-Executive 
Director and as Chairman of our Audit Committee. I would like to thank Gary for his great 
contribution to Sainsbury’s, particularly in the areas of financial and strategic management. He will 
be succeeded by David Keens, who joined the Board in April and will become Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. David brings great experience of the retail sector and of financial management, which 
will be valuable in the years ahead.
The UK grocery market will remain challenging. Food price deflation has had a major impact on all 
players this year and that looks set to continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, the number 
of established players in this market means we can expect the competitive intensity on price to 
remain. We have a business that is strongly equipped to meet these challenges and build on its 
successful heritage.
£681m
Underlying  
profit before  
tax, down 14.7%
13.2p
Proposed  
full-year  
dividend,  
down 23.7%
£50m+
Bonus awarded 
to colleagues
There has also been a shift towards buying groceries online, which now represents five per cent of 
the total market. Finally, lower raw material costs combined with increased price competition in our 
market have led to price deflation.
Sainsbury’s has chosen to invest in all areas of the market. We have achieved strong sales growth in 
our convenience stores and online, and we began a trial in the discount sector in November to bring 
the Netto brand back to the UK. We have, however, experienced a decline in sales in our supermarket 
stores this year which has adversely impacted our results.
Underlying profit before tax was down 14.7 per cent to £681 million. Underlying basic earnings per 
share was down 19.5 per cent to 26.4 pence. Return on capital employed declined 157 basis points 
year-on-year to 9.7 per cent.
Strategic Report
5 We are a grocer at  
heart, with growing 
businesses in general 
merchandise, clothing, 
convenience, financial 
services and online
Dear Shareholder, 
It is almost a year since I became your 
Chief Executive and we launched a 
thorough review of our business in the 
context of a UK marketplace changing 
faster than at any time in the past 30 
years. These changes have impacted our 
profits and like-for-like sales and we 
have seen a 25 basis point decline in our 
market share this year as we compete 
with a growing discount sector and high 
levels of price competition. We continue 
to maintain our balance sheet strength 
by carefully managing our costs, working 
capital and capital expenditure to 
enable us to invest strategically for 
future growth.
Mike Coupe,
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s letter
Strategic Report Strategic Report
7
We know that our customers still want the best quality food at great prices. Customers are buying 
similar products today to ten years ago, but the way that they shop has changed significantly, 
with more shops and channels available than ever before. Customers have more choice, are 
shopping more frequently and buy less when they shop. Supermarkets will remain the place where 
people do most of their grocery shopping, but they will increasingly top up in convenience stores 
and shop online.
In this context, our strategy is built on our strong foundations of selling great food with a focus on 
quality, provenance and sustainability. Over 95 per cent of our shoppers buy our core by Sainsbury’s 
range and we continue to enhance our quality credentials by investing to improve the quality of 
3,000 Sainsbury’s own-brand products. At the same time, we know that our customers want value 
for money and we have therefore invested in lowering our prices; our prices versus our competitors 
have never been better. 
We also have significant opportunities to grow our business. Clothing, general merchandise and 
financial services have all performed well over the past 12 months, as have our convenience and 
online channels. We have a significant ambition to grow these areas over the coming years.
Our supermarkets are generally the right size and are located in densely populated and growing 
areas, which gives us a real structural advantage. Encouragingly, this year we have seen a record 
number of customer transactions, with nearly one million additional transactions per week. Our 
investment in the quality and variety of our food and non-food products, combined with our strong 
store estate, position us well to capitalise on opportunities to serve our customers whenever and 
wherever they want to shop. 
Importantly, we know our customers better than anyone else and are increasingly able to 
personalise our communication and offers to meet their individual needs. Our Nectar loyalty 
scheme gives us the ability to tell our customers about products and services that are relevant to 
them and to reward them with offers on things they want to buy. 
Sainsbury’s is a fantastic business, run by an experienced management team, supported by great 
colleagues and underpinned by strong values. Our investment in price and quality is showing 
encouraging early signs, with volume and transaction growth coming through. I believe we are 
taking the right decisions to ensure we remain fit for the future and are able to capitalise on our 
many growth opportunities.
We know our customers better than anyone else
Our values  
make us  
different
Colleagues 
making the 
difference
There  
for our  
customers
Great products 
and services
at fair prices
Our strategy
Great products and  
services at fair prices
— Quality leader
—  Strong value  
proposition
—   Gr o wth opport unit ie s  
in non-food and services
There for our customers
—   A c ompe t it iv el y 
advantaged  
supermarket portfolio 
—   Con v enienc e s t or e  
network growth
—   Developing our groceries 
online channel
Colleagues making  
the difference
—   Deliv ering gr ea t  
customer service 8 9
Strategic Report
The UK grocery  
market is changing 
faster than at any  
other time in three 
decades. We must  
evolve to meet these 
new challenges
Market context
The market
Over the past year, consumer confidence has recovered as household income has improved. 
Reduced unemployment rates and real wage growth have led to an increase in the amount of 
money consumers have to spend. In addition, there has been a slowing of inflation on many 
household essentials, with deflation in various commodities including fuel, fresh produce and meat. 
This, coupled with the competitive pricing environment which has seen significant price investment 
across the market, has allowed customers to benefit from reduced prices in their grocery shop. 
Even in this environment, volume growth has remained relatively low throughout the year. Instead, 
increasingly confident consumers are choosing to treat themselves to things which they missed 
out on during recessionary years like eating out more frequently and purchasing big ticket items 
for the home. 
Customer conﬁdence
Index score
5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2011
Source: GfK Consumer Conﬁdence Index
2012 2013 2014 2015
Average UK household discretionary income
£ per week
190
185
180
175
170
165
160
155
150
145
2011
Source: CEBR
2012 2013 2014 2015 8 9
Strategic Report
Shopping habits
The savvy shopping behaviour learned during the recession has driven a structural shift in the 
market. Customers have been managing their budgets by shopping more frequently and wasting 
less. The move away from one weekly shop has been supported by the growth of convenience 
stores, improvements and confidence in the ease and security of shopping online and the rise 
of discounters. As customers use these channels more frequently, volumes in supermarkets are 
continuing to decline. However, supermarkets will remain the dominant channel, with forecasts 
indicating that approximately 60 per cent of grocery spend will still be made in supermarkets by 2022. 
Customers now have more 
choice when deciding when, 
where and how to shop
Grocery market channel share 2007–22F 
(% of market)
  Supermarket   Discount   Convenience   Online
100 80 60 40 20 0
2007
2014
2018F
2022F
Shopping missions
As customers have started to shop more frequently and across an increasing range of shopping 
channels, they now enjoy an unprecedented level of flexibility and convenience in the way that  
they buy their groceries. This has allowed customers to tailor their expectations for each shopping 
trip and potentially have a very specific shopping mission in mind.
For example, a customer buying a product such as a sandwich is looking to consume that  
product either immediately or very shortly after purchase. The speed and ease of shop offered by  
a convenience store is likely to be more attractive to a customer with limited time. Price is important 
as this is an everyday purchase, but not necessarily the key consideration. A customer can still buy 
a sandwich in a supermarket but is doing so increasingly less. This migration of everyday purchases 
to a convenience store is a major reason behind the falling volumes in supermarkets. It is not only 
everyday purchases that are subject to changing shopping missions. Products which are designated 
for special events, for example Valentine’s Day flowers, are also bought for immediate or short-
term use, but here the customer is likely to be even less price sensitive as the purchase is a highly 
considered one, where quality and freshness really matter.
When buying for the longer term, shopping missions have become impacted by the growth of 
online. Customers can easily benchmark the prices of comparable products from one grocer to  
the next, and the convenience of home delivery, particularly for bulkier products, means the impact 
of shopping on their leisure time can be minimised. As with shorter-term purchases in convenience 
stores, this growing shopping mission, driven by increasing levels of confidence in the security  
of shopping online, is having an impact on supermarket volumes.
Traditional grocers need to adapt their business model to these changing shopping missions. 
Customers are leading increasingly busy lives and, with early signs of improvements to  
disposable income levels, there is still an opportunity to serve all of a customer’s needs under one 
roof, or through one brand. Generating customer loyalty will be critical in this respect. Those grocers 
that evolve their offer to align to these changing habits will be the most successful. They will  
also have the licence to expand their range beyond just food, selling clothing, general merchandise 
and other products and services as customers build even greater levels of trust with their brands.
Source: Company estimates Great products and services at fair prices
Our investment  
in quality where  
it matters to our 
customers is at  
the heart of our 
strategy
Quality leader
Providing great food is Sainsbury’s core purpose. Customers continue to rate us above our main 
supermarket peers on product quality and this is key to winning customer loyalty. We are making 
good progress in our programme to improve the quality of 3,000 own-brand products, investing 
in the products that matter most to our customers. For example, we improved the quality of our 
Taste the Difference burgers, our by Sainsbury’s cheesecake, and our by Sainsbury’s all-in-one 
dishwasher tablets recently won Which? Best Buy 2015. The rate at which we launch these new 
products will increase at pace over the next 12 months. 
Own-brand products account for 49 per cent of our food sales, a small decline year-on-year. 
However, Taste the Difference outperformed the premium market and delivered growth of nearly 
five per cent and annualised sales of £1.1 billion. Despite the decline in own-brand sales, over  
95 per cent of our customers choose by Sainsbury’s products. 
Our focus on quality, provenance and sustainability differentiates us from our competitors. Our 
British sourcing credentials are an important part of our customer proposition. We sell over 1,900 
own-brand products sourced from the UK and we are always looking to increase the number of 
British lines we sell. This year we developed our game range, including new venison lines, and we 
95%
Over 95 per cent of  
our customers buy  
the by Sainsbury’s 
product range
We are focused on maximising the strength of our food and 
non-food businesses. As well as being the grocer of choice, 
we also aim to be the clothing, general merchandise and 
financial services brand of choice and to expand our existing 
offer in these areas.
10 11
Strategic Report promoted lesser-known species of fish such as sustainably-caught coley and responsibly-sourced 
river cobbler, giving our customers greater variety and choice. For a number of years all our fresh, 
breaded and cooked chicken has come from the UK, as does fresh pork and fresh lamb in the main 
season. Our fresh and frozen beef is British or Irish. We continue to work with our long-standing 
Development Groups of farmers and growers to share best practice and develop more efficient and 
sustainable ways of working. This year, our Love your Freezer campaign inspired customers with 
practical advice on minimising waste and saving money, to make their lives easier. 
We were named Drinks and Seafood Retailer of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards, Fish Retailer 
of the Year by the Marine Stewardship Council and in-store Bakery Retailer of the Year at the Bakery 
Industry Awards. 
Strong value proposition
For our customers, quality and price are both important in the value proposition. Our new pricing 
strategy of regular lower prices reassures customers that they can always get a good price at 
Sainsbury’s. Customers have responded positively to clearer, simpler pricing as we continue to adopt 
lower base prices for products not on promotion. 
We are investing in lowering the prices of the everyday products that matter to our customers. 
This will be paid for through value chain efficiencies in future years. We have lowered the prices 
of over 1,100 products, including responsibly sourced Scottish salmon, British bacon and lamb. 
Our Brand Match promise continues to reinforce our value credentials and reassures customers 
that their branded shop will be good value: those who receive a coupon know that we have 
matched our branded prices to Asda’s, including promotions.
We have never been more competitive on price than we are today. We will continue to invest in 
lowering prices and improving quality to ensure that we are well-positioned to meet the challenges 
of an increasingly competitive marketplace.
Price 
investment
We have never been 
more competitive 
on price
You won’t have to wait for a 
deal to get a good price
3,000
We are improving 
the quality of  
3,000 own-brand 
products, investing 
in range, innovation, 
packaging and 
merchandising
  We will continue to focus on 
improving our differentiated 
quality position and build on our 
strong own-brand offer
10 11
Strategic Report Growth opportunities in non-food and services
Our clothing, general merchandise and financial services businesses are profitable, well established 
and continue to show excellent growth and strong potential. We see a firm correlation between 
increased loyalty and spend across our whole offer when customers buy into these categories.
Non-food 
Clothing and general merchandise grew sales by over nine per cent last year. Our strategy for growth 
focuses on increasing our non-food presence in stores, changing the visual merchandising more 
frequently and emphasising our quality and design-led approach in clothing, cookware, homeware 
and seasonal products – categories that customers tell us matter most to them. The ranges are 
currently stocked in nearly 430 of our supermarkets.
£800m
Tu achieved sales of 
over £800 million in 
2014/15
430
Our clothing and  
general merchandise 
ranges are now  
available in  
nearly 430 of our 
supermarkets
We have seen Tu clothing sales grow to over £800 million this year and we are currently the UK’s 
seventh largest clothing retailer by volume and tenth largest by value. We bring our customers 
new Tu collections every six weeks and our focus on being a destination for ‘high street style at 
supermarket prices’ and our successful partnership with Gok Wan have helped us increase market 
share and drive double-digit sales growth. We marked Tu’s tenth birthday in September with our 
largest-ever fashion collection, and we launched our 16th collection with Gok in February. 
Customers are shopping our childrenswear ranges more frequently than ever before and we remain 
the sixth largest childrenswear retailer by volume and eighth by value.
Our trial of selling clothing online has been extended to a number of regions across the UK, including 
London and the South East, and we continue to evaluate the results. We anticipate a full roll-out of 
our clothing online offer this year.
Our general merchandise business grew by over seven per cent last year from a relatively low 
market share base. We increasingly source directly from the Far East and gross margins have 
improved as our scale has grown. Events such as Halloween and Valentine’s Day continue to be 
successful, with our customers buying into a full selection of seasonal products.
  Our strategy for growth focuses on 
increasing our non-food presence 
and emphasising our quality and 
design-led approach in clothing, 
cookware, homeware and seasonal 
products; categories that customers 
tell us matter to them most
12 13
Strategic Report Financial services 
We took 100 per cent ownership of Sainsbury’s Bank in January 2014 and are part way through our 
transition to become a standalone bank. We see significant growth opportunities for Sainsbury’s 
Bank, in particular capitalising on the brand loyalty effect we see from our customers. Last year 
we saw a 13 per cent increase in the number of Sainsbury’s Bank credit cards being used within 
our stores. Whilst reduced advertising activity has resulted in overall customer awareness of the 
Bank declining slightly during the year, the number of active accounts held by customers has now 
reached 1.7 million, an increase of six per cent. 
In a challenging marketplace, we have continued to see sales and profit growth, with operating 
profit up 17 per cent to £62 million and total income up over 13 per cent to £260 million. In 2014, 
we grew credit card sales volumes by 50 per cent year-on-year. Our loans business had another very 
successful year with a 13 per cent year-on-year increase in sales volumes, as we continue to provide 
competitive, best buy table loan rates. Sainsbury’s Bank Travel Money saw like-for-like growth in 
turnover of 24 per cent. In March, we welcomed 574 Travelex colleagues over to Sainsbury’s Bank, 
a key milestone in our transition strategy to become a standalone bank, and opened our 168
th
 Travel 
Money Bureau.
Travel 
Money
We created a  
new in-house  
Travel Money  
team this year
 
Despite insurance sales volumes and income declining year-on-year due to increased  
competition in the car and home markets, new business volumes in pet insurance grew by  
64 per cent year-on-year. The Bank’s ATM estate grew nearly seven per cent to 1,575 free-to-use 
ATMs, seeing over 236 million transactions in 2014/15. Sainsbury’s Bank’s website visitors  
have also grown by over 12 per cent year-on-year to over two million visits each month.
Whilst we have made good progress in certain areas of the transition programme in terms of 
building our new banking platform and planning customer migration, a complex project of this  
size always brings challenge and we have faced into a number of issues that are likely to impact  
the end costs. Although our transition plans remain on time and in line with budget to date,  
we see total costs (capital and revenue) for the project going forward rising by between £80 million 
and £120 million, taking our overall spend to between £340 million and £380 million. The smooth 
migration of savings customers in winter 2015 remains our primary near term objective.
New services  
We continue to develop other services through Mobile by Sainsbury’s, Sainsbury’s Energy and 
Sainsbury’s Entertainment. These investments take time and carry added risk and they remain 
a small loss making part of our overall business.
£1 of every £12 dispensed  
from a LINK ATM is from  
Sainsbury’s Bank 
12 13
Strategic Report There for our customers
We have scale 
businesses across all  
our channels and we 
continue to invest to 
serve our customers
We have developed our multi-channel credentials over a 
number of years and, as well as our core supermarket offer, 
we now have convenience and online businesses of scale. 
Ensuring the size and format of our estate meets our 
customers’ varied shopping needs is a fundamental part 
of our strategy for growth and we will continue to invest 
strategically so that we can serve our customers whenever, 
wherever and however they want. 
A competitively advantaged supermarket portfolio
Our strategic review highlighted the relative long-term strength in our overall store estate, giving us 
a structural advantage despite the declines in supermarket grocery volumes we expect to see over 
the coming years. 
Around a quarter of our stores will have some under-utilised space over the next five years – around 
six per cent of our total space. We will use half of this to expand our successful clothing and general 
merchandise offer, making more of the range available to more customers. With only one in five 
of our supermarkets selling the full non-food offer, there are significant opportunities for growth. 
The remaining three per cent of space will be used for carefully selected concession partners, 
offering complementary goods and services to give our customers more choice and convenience. 
For example, Argos digital stores will open in ten of our supermarkets this year and we are working 
with Timpsons, an existing concession partner, to bring their products and services to more of our 
supermarkets. GP and dental surgeries have also been popular.
During this financial year we opened eight supermarkets (of which two were replacement stores), 
extended five, refurbished 13, and closed one. As part of our review, we announced a reduction in 
our store opening programme. We will add only around 450,000 square feet of new space in each of 
the next two financial years, predominantly focused on convenience stores. As a result of the review 
of our supermarket estate, we have taken an impairment charge against some of our trading stores 
and withdrawn from a number of schemes in our property pipeline that are unlikely to achieve an 
appropriate return on capital. This resulted in a total impairment and onerous contract charge of 
£628 million which was recognised in the first half of the financial year.
450k
We are opening 
around 450,000 
square feet of new  
space in each of 
the next two 
financial years
14 15
Strategic Report Despite a £0.9 billion decline in our property valuation, we aim to maximise the value of our 
property assets by working with joint venture partners to deliver new leisure, residential and 
commercial opportunities whilst adding trading space to our estate. We are delivering over 
1,500 new homes across London as well as providing greater shopping choice to our customers 
and generating new local jobs. Our £500 million project with Barratt London at Nine Elms will 
complement the new tube station development and will open in 2016/17. It will deliver 737  
new homes, a new Sainsbury’s store and 27,000 square feet of local shops, restaurants and office 
space. We have also developed plans for a replacement store at Whitechapel Square in Tower 
Hamlets alongside 600 new homes and improved public space surrounding Whitechapel Station. 
Mixed use development schemes are expected to deliver property profits of around £200 million 
in the next two years. 
We are also actively exploring different supermarket formats; we see great potential in tailoring 
formats and product ranges to best meet customers’ needs and these will form a blueprint for 
future investment.
We are devoting more space  
to clothing and general 
merchandise and working  
with concession partners  
to give more choice to  
our customers
We continue to work with  
joint venture partners to 
maximise the value of  
our property assets
As part of our strategy we will  
trial different store formats that 
will best suit our customers’ 
changing needs
Right store, right size
Number of stores by store size (sq ft)
<10k
746
>80k
12
60–80k
62
40–60k
164
20–40k
196
10–20k
124
14 15
Strategic Report Convenience store network 
The trend towards frequent, local top-up shopping continues and our convenience store network 
is showing strong growth. We aim to open stores at a rate of one to two per week while taking a 
disciplined approach to new space. This year we opened 98 convenience stores during the year, 
reaching a total of 707 stores. The business now generates sales of over £2.1 billion and delivered 
over 16 per cent growth during the year, with over seven million customer transactions each 
week. We took over £8 million on Christmas Eve – our biggest ever day for convenience sales 
and we were named Convenience Retailer of the Year for the fifth consecutive year at the Retail 
Industry Awards.
Our strategy of adapting our product range to serve the needs of the local community has 
started well. We will be trialling different convenience formats to cater for varying shopping 
missions such as ‘food to go’ and both smaller and larger format convenience stores. This will 
extend our understanding of customer shopping behaviour and open up the range of suitable 
locations for our convenience stores in the future. With fewer than one person in ten living within 
a 15 minute walk of a Sainsbury’s Local, there is significant opportunity for growth.
Developing groceries online 
Customers are looking to shop seamlessly across our channels, using laptops, mobile phones 
and tablets, and we are developing the technology to support this. We are also making 
online shopping more convenient, with a Click & Collect service for groceries being rolled out 
nationwide. We have also invested in the pricing and availability of delivery slots which has 
driven up order numbers and customer loyalty.
  The trend towards more frequent 
and local shopping continues and 
our convenience store network is 
showing strong growth
700
th
We opened our 
700
th
 convenience  
store in February 
Our convenience business 
generated sales of over 
£2.1 billion during the year
16 17
Strategic Report We are focused on profitable growth opportunities and we have invested in the successful upgrade 
of our online platform to enhance the customer shopping experience and improve availability. 
After the closure of the general merchandise website during the year, general merchandise is now 
incorporated on our groceries online site to give customers a convenient ‘one click’ option to include 
more everyday items in their online shop. This investment means that customers get access to a 
similar range of products online as they would in store. 
We will continue to boost the infrastructure that supports online as a growth channel. In anticipation 
of demand in London, we are on track to open our first ‘dark store’ for online orders in Bromley-by-Bow 
in 2016. 
Click &  
Collect
We plan to offer  
grocery Click &  
Collect at 100 stores  
across the country by  
the end of the year
On average, our online business 
delivers nearly 215,000 orders 
per week
Although the rate of growth of our online grocery business has slowed, we achieved over seven  
per cent growth during the year and on average we now deliver nearly 215,000 orders per week, 
up 13 per cent. We had our biggest online Christmas ever this year, and in the three days to  
23 December 2014, our online team delivered more than 110,000 orders. 
Netto UK trial
Our joint venture trial to bring Netto back to the UK continues and we now have five stores open.  
Our objective remains to open 15 stores by the end of the 2015/16 financial year. If successful,  
it will give us access to, and greater understanding of, the discount grocery sector and offer us 
exposure to an attractive growth channel.
16 17
Strategic Report Colleagues making the difference
The service our 
colleagues provide in 
store, online, at the 
door, or on the phone   
has built customer 
trust and loyalty
Great customer service differentiates us from our competitors. 
We aim to make customers’ lives easier by helping them to 
access the products and services that are right for them, 
whenever, wherever and however they choose to shop with us.
Delivering great customer service
From being predominantly supermarket-based, more than one in twelve of our colleagues now 
works in our online operation and more than one in nine in our convenience stores. Our colleagues 
have demonstrated their ability to adapt to meet our customers’ changing shopping needs and we 
work hard to support them. 
Since we opened our new training college in Brixton last March, we have run 360 courses in 
management skills, coaching and operations attended by over 3,600 colleagues. To support the 
growth of our general merchandise and clothing businesses, over 2,500 colleagues have been 
trained in visual merchandising techniques. Since opening our seven Food Colleges, over 33,000 
colleagues working on our fresh food counters and in our bakeries and cafés have received City 
& Guilds-accredited training. This equips them with the skills and product knowledge to serve 
our customers better. We also launched two new apprenticeship programmes designed to upskill 
colleagues working on our fish counters and in our in-store bakeries. We won the Training Initiative 
of the Year Award at the Retail Industry Awards for a programme designed to improve operational 
outcomes and customer experience.
33,000
Over 33,000 
colleagues have 
attended City & 
Guilds-accredited 
training courses 
since 2010
18 19
Strategic Report  
 Our programme to improve 
operational outcomes and customer 
experience won the Training  
Initiative of the Year Award at the 
Retail Industry Awards 
Digital 
hub
We launched 
digital hubs in 
Coventry and 
London in April 
this year
We restructured the way we work at our store support centres, ensuring we have the right talent in 
the right locations to serve our customers well into the future. Making these efficiencies reduced the 
number of roles at our store support centres by 500 and those colleagues were either re-deployed 
or left the business by the end of the financial year. We also announced a restructure in our stores in 
April 2015 to improve efficiency and customer service which we expect to result in around 800 fewer 
roles. In addition, we also created 480 specialist roles in London and Coventry, strengthening our 
in-house digital and technology capabilities. 
We have invested in the right tools for the job to help colleagues work effectively together wherever 
they are located in our business. We recently introduced Yammer, which allows colleagues to share 
best practice, get questions answered in real time and, importantly, to communicate and celebrate 
success. Future investments in technology include a new Colleague Portal launching in the summer 
that will make communicating more efficient, and we are trialling tablets for store managers, 
allowing them to spend more time with customers and colleagues on the sales floor. 
We monitor the progress we are making in enabling our colleagues to be the best they can be in 
delivering great customer service. Our Mystery Shopper programme measures service levels in each 
store every fortnight and our stores continue to perform strongly year-on-year. We also measure 
product availability and in this financial year, 17 of our stores have won the Grocer 33 award for 
service and availability.
Our Mystery Shopper programme 
measures service levels in each store 
every two weeks
18 19
Strategic Report We know our customers better than anyone else
Knowing our customers 
better helps us serve 
them better. By 
anticipating their needs 
and surpassing their 
expectations, we earn 
their trust and loyalty
Customers are at the heart of our business and for our future 
success we need to understand what they want. We talk to 
customers regularly to get a detailed picture of how they shop 
with us across all our channels and to find out what they value, 
how their needs are changing and how we can serve them better. 
This insight, combined with great products, a brand that people trust, the right retail space 
in good locations and technology that helps us deliver what our customers want, gives us a 
competitive advantage, now and in the future.
We take every opportunity to talk to our customers through face-to-face, telephone and online 
conversations. Focus groups and accompanied shopping with customers in our stores help 
us understand what people want when it comes to products, service and values. Trolley T alk, 
our new online customer panel launched in September, enables us to reach around 4,000 
people online every week. The insight we gain helps us identify what is important and we can 
action change quickly and effectively. For example, Trolley T alk highlighted that the price dairy 
farmers are paid for their milk was a concern to many people. As a result, we took the initiative 
to advertise that we pay our farmers a higher price for milk than many of our peers. We also 
get valuable feedback from store colleagues and through our customer Careline.
15.5m
Nearly 15.5 million  
of our customers 
regularly use  
a Nectar card
20 21
Strategic Report 35m
This year we sent 
35 million personalised 
mailings to Nectar 
card holders for the 
products they want  
to buy
21,500
Over 21,500  
customers have 
participated  
in our ‘Trolley Talk’ 
feedback since it 
launched in 
September
Personalised 
Nectar mailout
To make the most of our opportunities for growth, over time we are investing in ways to become 
increasingly effective in our customer interactions, giving a smoother shopping experience such 
as through mobile ‘scan and go’.
Our Nectar loyalty scheme is the source of much of our insight and gives us an important 
competitive advantage. Nearly 15.5 million Nectar card holders shopped with us during the year – 
in-store, online and through Sainsbury’s Bank – giving us valuable information that increases our 
knowledge of how our customers are shopping and interacting with us.
With Nectar and coupon-at-till technology, we are able to reward customers in a targeted way,  
and this increases loyalty to Sainsbury’s. Customers who shop all our channels spend more than 
twice as much as those who only shop for food in our stores. During the year we sent 35 million 
personalised mailings to Nectar card holders, using their shopping preferences to offer vouchers 
and other special offers for the products they want to buy. 
In October, we announced changes to the way customers earn Nectar points with customers 
accruing one instead of two points per £1 spend from April 2015. As part of this we are re-investing 
in the scheme by launching a programme of high-value bonus events, like 10x points on fuel, that 
will help customers’ points go further.
20 21
Strategic Report Our values remain at 
the core of our business 
and are part of our  
long-term strategy  
for growth  
Our values are part of our long-term strategy for growth and 
make good business sense. As we approach the half-way point 
in our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we are working to review 
our commitments to ensure we remain focused on delivering 
value and values for customers, suppliers, colleagues and 
shareholders. We anticipate that we will change our corporate 
responsibility commitments and key delivery goals, to further 
align with our new strategy. 
Our values make us different
Best for food and health
We are committed to producing healthier baskets and set tough salt reduction targets for our 
own-brand products over 15 years ago. Historically, around ten per cent of our products missed the 
Government’s 2012 salt targets. We are addressing products such as bacon where, as signatories 
to the Government’s Responsibility Deal 2017 pledge on salt, the targets present the greatest 
challenge in terms of customer perception. During the last year, we have also worked with our 
suppliers to reformulate our own-brand soft drinks and have removed 2,256 tonnes of sugar 
annually from our customers’ baskets, equating to 8.9 billion calories per year. 
Sourcing with integrity
British dairy farmers have come under pressure this year due to price volatility. Our dedicated Dairy 
Development Group protects members through a cost of production model that ensures they are paid a 
fair price and rewarded for environmental standards and animal welfare. We have nine other Agricultural 
Development Groups that contribute to our range of over 1,900 British own-brand products. 
We continue to work with our suppliers to address the sustainability of our products. In 2007, we set 
a stretching commitment to use only sustainable palm oil by 2014, a target we did not reach. As of 
December 2014, 95 per cent of the palm oil we use to make own-brand products is certified sustainable. 
We continue to work with our suppliers to bring the remaining sustainable alternatives to market. 
We have also improved our seafood offer with the launch of the first Marine Stewardship Council (‘MSC’) 
certified tuna sandwich and our exclusive Freedom Food British rainbow trout. We have received external 
recognition for having the best own-brand seafood policy, coming joint top of the Marine Conservation 
Society’s 2014 survey.
We relaunched our Taste 
the Difference Conegliano 
Prosecco with an alcohol 
by volume reduction from 
11 per cent to 10.5 per cent
22 23
Strategic Report We were ranked  
as a Sustainability  
Leader in the  
2014 Dow Jones 
Sustainability  
Index (‘Food  
and Staples 
Retailing’)
  England and Liverpool striker 
Daniel Sturridge was announced as 
our new ambassador to support 
campaigns including Active Kids, 
alongside Paralympians Ellie 
Simmonds and Jonnie Peacock
Respect for our environment
We delivered industry leading environmental initiatives, including our Cannock store becoming the 
first retail outlet in the UK to be powered by food waste alone. Our Portishead store became our first 
to run fridges powered by ‘green’ gas created using waste from sugar beet suppliers. We operate the 
UK’s largest dual fuel lorry fleet and are working to increase this to beyond 12 per cent of our core fleet. 
We have also launched a unique lorry with a range of features designed to improve safety for cyclists 
and pedestrians. 
Our pace of innovation for energy efficiency initiatives has slowed so we are searching for new ideas. 
Our existing efficiency programmes continue to deliver through award-winning initiatives such as the 
installation of over 100,000 LED lights. Our energy usage and associated emissions are discussed in 
more detail on page 52. 
Making a positive difference to our community 
This year, with help from our customers, colleagues and suppliers, we raised £52 million for charitable 
causes, including around £7 million in support of The Royal British Legion and over £11.5 million for 
Red Nose Day 2015. Through our Active Kids scheme, we have now donated over £150 million worth 
of equipment and experiences to schools and clubs since 2005, and the scheme was recognised in 
March 2015 by the Prime Minister, David Cameron, with a Big Society Award. We have 384 stores with 
a local food donation partner, 59 more stores than last year. However, 71 per cent of our stores are 
without a partner so we are focused on increasing this number. 
A great place to work
Recognising that our colleagues make the difference, we have continued to provide training for a 
range of skills, introducing a new Level 2 Apprenticeship for Craft Skills for our fishmongers and 
bakers. We have also opened a new college for our Team Leaders and Store Managers, purely 
dedicated to leadership training. 
Our business is changing, and as part of our strategic review we announced restructuring plans 
as well as a reduction in our store opening programme, which has disappointingly resulted in 
fewer job opportunities. We are, however, committed to being a good employer and work hard to 
promote the opportunities available. In the last year, over 450 colleagues pledged their time to 
mentor young people about careers in retail and since 2008, we have helped over 24,000 people 
who have faced barriers into work through our You Can scheme.
We are also proud to pay our fair share of tax. Whilst we are obliged to pay tax in accordance 
with the law, we also ensure that our taxation policy is aligned with our corporate values. 
We maintain good corporate practice and strict controls in order to protect our shareholders’ 
funds. Further information about our values and our 20x20 Sustainability Plan can be found at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/responsibility. 
This year we invested in the 
future of British farming 
through our new Horticulture 
Apprenticeship scheme
22 23
Strategic Report 24 25
Strategic Report
Strategic key performance indicators
Our strategic KPIs 
provide measurable 
insight into the  
progress we are making 
on our new strategy 
Like-for-like transactions
The structural change in the market means 
that customers have more choice than ever 
when it comes to doing their grocery shopping. 
This means that like-for-like transactions are 
at risk and we need to ensure that we execute 
our strategy effectively. Customers will then 
continue to see that we offer great products at 
great prices.
Definition: Year-on-year growth in transactions 
from stores that have been open for more than 
one year.
Product quality
We know customers value quality when 
deciding where to shop and it is therefore 
important for us to be ranked above our peers in 
relation to the quality perception of our brand.
Definition: Our rank based on a sample of 
approximately 1,000 consumers who rated 
product quality of each of the following brands: 
Sainsbury’s, Tesco, Morrisons and Asda.
1
1
st
2014/15
1
st
2013/14
1
st
2012/13
4
th
2012/13
Price perception
Our new pricing strategy of regular lower prices 
seeks to reassure customers that they can 
always get a good price on and off promotion. 
Definition: Our rank based on a sample of 
approximately 1,000 consumers who rated value 
of each of the following brands: Sainsbury’s, 
Tesco, Morrisons and Asda.
1
2013/14
4
th
2014/15
4
th
Great products  
and services at  
fair prices
Like-for-like transactions (%)
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
1 
0 
(1)
(2)
1
 HPI Brand & Communications Tracker. 24 25
Strategic Report
Sales growth by area
Grocery retailing is our core business but growing our clothing, general merchandise and financial 
services businesses is an important part of our strategy. We know that our customers value greater 
choice and that there is a correlation between increased loyalty and spend across our whole offer when 
customers buy into these categories.
Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, including VAT , for grocery, clothing and general 
merchandise. Year-on-year growth of Sainsbury’s Bank total income for financial services.
Availability
Offering our customers the products they want 
ensures they have a good shopping experience. 
This makes availability very important. We 
measure availability each week and have a 
minimum standard we expect to achieve.
Definition: Minimum standards have been reached.
Customer service
Our colleagues make the difference by 
delivering great customer service. We monitor 
this every fortnight with a Mystery Shopper 
programme which measures the service level 
of the three main components of the customer 
shopping experience.
Definition: Minimum standards have been 
reached in all three of the main components of 
the customer shopping experience.
Supermarket
Gold
Supermarket
Gold
Convenience
Gold
Convenience
Bronze
Colleagues 
making the  
difference
Grocery (%)
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
0 
(1)
Clothing (%)
15
12
9
6
3
0
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
General merchandise (%)
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Financial services (%)
15 
10 
5 
0 
(5)
(10)
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Sales growth by channel
Customers are choosing to shop across channels and are using convenience and online more 
frequently, leading to a decline in supermarket sales. It is therefore important that we invest 
strategically so that we can serve our customers whenever, wherever and however they want.
Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, including VAT , excluding fuel.
There for our  
customers
Supermarkets (%)
3 
2 
1 
0 
(1)
(2)
(3)
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Convenience (%)
25
20
15
10
5
0
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Online (%)
25
20
15
10
5
0
2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
Sainsbury’s Bank was a joint venture until 
31 January 2014. Measures presented represent 
100 per cent of the Bank’s total income for the 
12 months to 28 February 2015, 50 weeks 
ended 28 February 2014 and 52 weeks ended 
16 March 2013. 26 27
Strategic Report
Financial key performance indicators
Group measures
Underlying profit before tax
Definition: Profit before tax before any 
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, 
investment property fair value movements, 
retail financing fair value movements, 
impairment of goodwill, IAS 19 pension 
financing element, defined benefit pension 
scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments 
and one-off items that are material and 
infrequent in nature.
2012/13 restated for changes to IAS 19, prior years not restated
Financial KPIs are  
critical to understanding 
and measuring our 
financial health
Underlying basic earnings per share
Definition: Underlying profit, net of 
attributable taxation, divided by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year, excluding those 
held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan 
trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Cost savings
Definition: Excludes Sainsbury’s Bank and 
represents cost reductions as a result of 
identified initiatives.
Underlying basic earnings per share 
(pence)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
26.5
28.1
30.8
32.8
26.4
Cost savings (£m)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
100
105
104
120
140
Operating cashflow
Definition: Cash generated from operations 
after changes in working capital.
Dividend per share
Definition: Total proposed dividend per 
share in relation to the financial year.
Operating cashflow (£m)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
1,138
1,291
1,268
1,227
1,136
Dividend per share (pence)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
15.1
16.1
16.7
17.3
13.2
Underlying profit before tax (£m)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
665
712
758
798
681 26 27
Strategic Report
Retail
Maintaining balance sheet strength
Like-for-like sales
Definition: Year-on-year growth in sales 
including VAT , excluding fuel, excluding 
Sainsbury’s Bank, for stores that have been 
open for more than one year.
Pre-tax return on capital employed
Definition: Underlying profit before interest 
and tax, divided by the average of opening 
and closing capital employed (net assets 
before net debt).
Trading intensity per square foot
Definition: Sales per week (including VAT , 
excluding fuel, excluding Sainsbury’s Bank) 
divided by sales area.
Retail sales growth
Definition: Year-on-year growth in sales 
including VAT , excluding fuel, excluding 
Sainsbury’s Bank.
Gearing
Definition: Net debt divided by net assets.
Retail underlying operating margin
Definition: Underlying profit before tax, 
underlying net finance costs and underlying 
share of post-tax results from joint ventures, 
divided by retail sales excluding VAT , 
including fuel, excluding Sainsbury’s Bank.
Retail underlying EBITDAR margin
Definition: Underlying profit before tax, 
underlying net finance costs, underlying 
share of post-tax results from joint ventures, 
depreciation, amortisation and rent, divided 
by sales excluding VAT , including fuel, 
excluding Sainsbury’s Bank.
Lease adjusted net debt/underlying 
EBITDAR
Definition: Net debt plus capitalised lease 
obligations (5.5 per cent discount rate) 
divided by Group underlying EBITDAR.
Core retail capital expenditure
Definition: Capital expenditure excluding 
Sainsbury’s Bank and before proceeds from 
sale and leasebacks and capital relating 
to the acquisition of freehold and trading 
properties.
Financial KPIs are  
critical to understanding 
and measuring our 
financial health
2013/14 closing capital employed has been adjusted to remove 
50 per cent of Sainsbury’s Bank net assets
Pre-tax return on capital employed (%)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
11.1
11.1
11.1
11.3
9.7
Gearing (%)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
33.4
35.2
37.0
39.7
42.3
2010/11 and 2011/12 not restated for changes to IAS 19 or to 
reflect changes in disclosure of lease lengths beyond five years
Lease adjusted net debt/underlying 
EBITDAR
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
4.1
4.1
3.8
3.9
4.1
Core retail capital expenditure (£m)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
1,138
1,240
1,040
888
947
Trading intensity per sq ft (£ per week)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
20.04
19.47
19.27
18.93
18.24
Like-for-like sales 2014/15 (%)
1-year LFL
2-year LFL
3-year LFL
4-year LFL
5-year LFL
(1.9)
(1.7)
0.1
2.2
4.5
Retail sales growth 2014/15 (%)
1-year
2-year
3-year
4-year
5-year
(0.2)
2.5
6.9
11.7
17.2
Retail underlying operating margin (%) 
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
3.50
3.54
3.57
3.65
3.07
2012/13 restated for changes to IAS 19, prior years not restated
Retail underlying EBITDAR margin (%)
2010/11
2011/12
2012/13
2013/14
2014/15
7.81
7.80
7.84
8.05
7.76
2012/13 restated for changes to IAS 19, prior years not restated 28
Strategic Report
Our principal risks and uncertainties
The risk management process is closely aligned to our strategy. Risk 
is an inherent part of doing business. The management of these risks 
is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through careful 
assessment of both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk 
appetite. Consideration is given to both reputational as well as financial 
impact, recognising the significant commercial value attributable to 
the Sainsbury’s brand. Each principal risk and uncertainty is 
considered in the context of how it relates to the achievement of the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The current business strategy and 
objectives are categorised into the following areas of focus:
The risk discussion includes assessment of both gross and net risk, 
where gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before 
considering the mitigations in place and net risk being the residual 
risk after mitigations. The risk appetite for each key risk is also 
discussed and assessed. The gross risk movement from prior year for 
each principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed and is 
presented as follows:
 
No change Increased gross  
risk exposure 
Reduced gross  
risk exposure 
 
Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net 
risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
Key risk movements
The key risks are discussed and monitored throughout the year to 
identify changes to the risk landscape. Over the last year, as part of 
the strategic review process the principal risks were reviewed and 
updated in line with the Company’s strategic objectives. This has 
resulted in a more streamlined set of principal risks from the prior 
year with a number of key business as usual risks being returned to 
the divisional level for ongoing management and monitoring. In 
addition, the business strategy risk has been updated to provide 
focus on the risk associated with change initiatives forming part of 
the business strategy. In addition, risks associated with the 
competitive landscape are given greater focus as part of the trading 
environment and competitive landscape principal risk. Finally, the 
previously separate disclosure of pensions risk is now reflected as part 
of the ‘Finance and treasury’ risk where the mitigating actions sit.
The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and the 
corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no order of 
priority. 
Business continuity and major incidents response
Risk
A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the 
Group’s ability to trade.
Mitigation
Sainsbury’s has detailed plans in place, supported by senior 
representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and 
have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a 
potentially disruptive incident.
The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure 
that the business continuity (‘BC’) policy and strategy is fit for 
purpose. In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated 
with BC and IT disaster recovery. In the event of any unplanned or 
unforeseen events the Business Continuity Management Team is 
convened at short notice to manage the response and any associated 
risk to the business.
All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be 
made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
Business strategy and change
Risk
If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not 
communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the 
business may be negatively impacted. Risks to delivering the 
strategy, change initiatives forming part of the strategy and 
other significant supporting change, such as the internal 
transformation of the Digital and Technology function, need to 
be properly understood and managed to deliver long-term 
growth for the benefit of all stakeholders alongside 
management of business as usual.
Mitigation
The strategic review was completed in November 2014 resulting in an 
update strategy focused on the following:
— We know our customers better than anyone else;
— There for our customers;
— Great products and services at fair prices;
— Colleagues making the difference; and
— Our values make us different.
Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, such 
as the ability to implement and deliver change and new business 
initiatives, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall 
strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Strategy Conference. 
The Operating Board also holds regular sessions to discuss strategy. 
This activity is supported by a dedicated strategy team. To ensure the 
strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with 
a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, 
customers and suppliers on a continual basis. In addition, 
management performs ongoing monitoring of business as usual 
performance to determine indicators of potential negative 
performance as a result of change initiatives.
We know our customers better than anyone else
Our values  
make us  
different
Colleagues 
making the 
difference
There  
for our  
customers
Great products 
and services
at fair prices 29
Strategic Report
Colleague engagement, retention and capability
Risk
The Group employs over 150,000 colleagues who are critical to 
the success of our business. Attracting and maintaining good 
relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training 
and development is essential to the efficiency and 
sustainability of the Group’s operations. Delivery of the strategic 
objectives, including development of new businesses and 
progress on multi-channel, increases the risk of ability to attract, 
motivate and retain talent, specific skill sets and capability. In 
addition, the challenging trading environment requires a focus 
on efficient operations which may include change initiatives 
impacting colleagues, therefore presenting a risk of loss of 
colleague trust or engagement.
Mitigation
The Group’s employment policies and remuneration and benefits 
packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive 
with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling 
career opportunities. Colleague surveys, performance reviews, 
communications with trade unions and regular communication of 
business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to 
understand and respond to colleagues’ needs. In addition to strong 
leadership and nurturing of talent by line managers, processes are 
also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession 
planning throughout the business. Ongoing reviews are performed to 
understand the capability and specific skill sets required to deliver 
objectives. This is supported by embracing new ways of attracting 
talent and our corporate value ‘Great Place to Work’ reinforces our 
commitment to giving people the opportunity to be the best they 
can be.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, listening groups, 
communications with trade unions, regular communication of 
business activities and colleague networking forums such as Yammer 
and My Sainsbury’s are some of the methods the Group uses to 
understand and respond to colleagues’ needs. As change initiatives 
are implemented, the methods described above will continue to be 
employed to understand and maintain colleague trust and 
engagement.
Data security
Risk
It is essential that the security of customer, colleague and 
Company confidential data is maintained. A major breach of 
information security could have a major negative financial and 
reputational impact on the business. The risk landscape is 
increasingly challenging with deliberate acts of cyber crime on 
the rise targeting all markets and heightening the risk exposure.
Mitigation
A Data Governance Committee is established and is supported by 
focused working groups looking at the management of colleague 
data, customer data, information security, commercial data and 
awareness and training. In July 2014, a Data Governance Programme 
Manager was appointed to oversee the activities of the working 
groups and ensure activities are co-ordinated and risk based. Various 
information security policies and standards are in place which focus 
on encryption, network security, access controls, system security, 
data protection and information handling. A review of key third 
parties who hold sensitive customer or colleague data continues to 
take place, and progress is monitored by the Information Security 
team. A risk based security testing approach across Sainsbury’s IT 
infrastructure and applications is in place to identify and remediate 
ongoing vulnerabilities. 
Environment and sustainability
Risk
Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsbury’s values. 
The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the 
environmental impact of the business with a focus on reducing 
packaging and new ways of reducing waste and energy usage 
across stores, depots and offices.
Mitigation
A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the 
Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering 
Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our 
customers’ expectations in this area. Further details are included in 
the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 51 to 52.
Financial and treasury risk
Risk
The main financial risks are the availability of short and 
long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations in 
interest, commodity and foreign currency rates. 
The business has now acquired full ownership of Sainsbury’s 
Bank which presents a risk that the Group’s financial 
performance and position may be negatively impacted if the 
Bank transition and performance is not delivered as planned. 
The transitional risk may have an adverse impact on people, 
processes, regulatory compliance and technical infrastructure 
and failure to manage the transition successfully may have an 
adverse impact on the Sainsbury’s brand. 
In addition, there remains a risk around pensions as the Group 
operates a number of pension arrangements that are subject 
to risks in relation to liabilities as a result of changes in life 
expectancy and inflation and to risks regarding the value of 
investments and the returns derived from such investments.
Mitigation
The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Group’s 
liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency 
exposures and the associated risks, as set out in note 28 on pages 
117 to 123. The Group Treasury function has clear policies and 
operating procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Executive sponsorship and a change governance structure are in 
place to manage and oversee the Bank transition which includes the 
Bank Transition Committee. Regular updates of transition progress to 
plan are provided to the Bank Board and to the Sainsbury plc Board. 
In addition, Sainsbury’s Bank operates an enterprise wide risk 
management framework and risk management processes include 
early identification of key transitional risks along with mitigation 
plans. Tracking of risk mitigation effectiveness will be ongoing 
throughout the transitional period. 
The principal treasury risks relating to the Bank and associated 
mitigations are set out in note 28 to the financial statements on 
pages 117 to 123.
With regard to pensions, an investment strategy is in place which has 
been developed by the pension trustee, in consultation with the 
Company, to mitigate the volatility of liabilities, to diversify 
investment risk and to manage cash. In September 2013, the 
Sainsbury’s Defined Benefit Pension Scheme was closed to future 
contributions which will help us to manage the escalating costs of 
pensions and protect the pensions that colleagues have already built 
up in the Scheme. 30
Strategic Report
Our principal risks and uncertainties continued
Health and safety – people and product
Risk
Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and 
customers is of utmost importance. In addition, it is paramount 
to maintaining the confidence our customers have in our 
business.
Mitigation
Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls 
required to manage health and safety and product safety risks across 
the business and comply with all applicable regulations. These cover 
the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of 
construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place 
in our depots, stores and offices, to the controls in place to ensure 
people and product safety and integrity. 
In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place 
to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide 
assurance over product safety and integrity. Supplier terms and 
conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product/
raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to 
comply with.
Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and 
internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and 
safety laws and Sainsbury’s internal policies. In addition, resource is 
dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group 
Safety Committee and specialist safety teams. 
Trading environment and competitive landscape
Risk
Effective management of the trading account is key to the 
achievement of performance targets.
The sector outlook has been and is set to remain challenging. 
The challenging trading environment, food price deflation and 
the price reduction and price matching activity across the sector 
may adversely impact performance.
Mitigation
We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on 
delivering quality products and services at fair prices, helping our 
customers Live Well For Less. This is achieved through the continuous 
review of our product quality, key customer metrics, monitoring of 
current market trends, active management of price positions, 
development of sales propositions and focused promotion and 
marketing activity. In November 2014 we announced our plan to 
continue to invest in the quality of products. We also announced 
additional investment in price which will be used to cut regular prices 
on some of the most popular items in customers’ baskets. In 
delivering our strategic plan, including our price investment, we will 
maintain the strength of our balance sheet and have therefore 
identified a series of measures to conserve cash in the business and 
deliver sustainable operating cost savings. Strategic Report
31
Dear Shareholder,
Against the backdrop of a tough trading 
environment and food price deflation, 
Sainsbury’s underlying Group sales 
(including VA T) declined by 0.9 per cent 
to £26,122 million (2013/14: £26,353 
million). Underlying profit before tax 
(‘UPBT’) has declined by 14.7 per cent 
to £681 million (2013/14: £798 million). 
Over the past year, our market share has 
declined 25 basis points to 16.5 per cent 
as we continue to see customers changing 
the nature of their shop, strong growth from 
the discounters and a more competitive 
grocery market. This has resulted in our 
average trading intensity excluding fuel 
declining to £18.24 per sq ft per week 
(2013/14: £18.93 per sq ft per week). As a 
result of a £753 million charge to items 
excluded from underlying results, loss 
before tax was £72 million (2013/14: 
£898 million profit).
John Rogers,  
Chief Financial Officer
Financial Review
In response to this, Sainsbury’s has made good progress against the 
strategy laid out in November 2014, which enables customers to 
shop whenever, wherever and however they want. We made a 
commitment to invest £150 million into the retail price of products. 
In practice, we have invested £50 million in the second half of 
2014/15 and expect to invest a further £150 million in 2015/16, 
making our overall price investment £200 million. However, as a 
result of lowering our prices, volumes have increased, leading to a net 
cost to the business of £40 million in 2014/15 and an expected £110 
million in 2015/16. To date, we have reduced the price of over 1,100 
products and our price position versus our main competitors has 
never been better. We will continue to invest in price to remain 
competitive in the market. Our retail underlying operating profit 
decreased by 17.5 per cent to £720 million (2013/14: £873 million), 
and our retail underlying operating margin decreased by 58 basis 
points (62 basis points at constant fuel prices).
Growing our non-food and financial services businesses is an 
important part of our strategy. This is demonstrated by general 
merchandise, which grew by over seven per cent, and clothing, which 
grew by nearly 12 per cent. In its first full year fully consolidated, 
Sainsbury’s Bank increased its total income by over 13 per cent 
to £260 million, and increased underlying operating profit to 
£62 million in 2014/15, compared with £53 million in 2013/14.
Our supermarkets are generally the right size and are located in 
densely populated and growing areas, which gives us a relative 
structural advantage. Nonetheless, as a result of the challenging 
market conditions, our supermarket sales declined by over two per 
cent. At the same time, we saw good growth in our other channels: 
our convenience business grew by over 16 per cent, ahead of the 
market, and annual sales are now over £2.1 billion; and our groceries 
online business grew by over seven per cent with annual sales of over 
£1.1 billion. In June 2014, we announced a joint venture (‘JV’) with 
Netto; this JV provides a great opportunity to gain exposure to the 
high growth discount channel and complements our convenience, 
online and non-food businesses, as well as our existing supermarket 
estate. We have now opened five stores, with a further ten to be 
opened by the end of 2015/16.
As part of our strategic review announced in November 2014, we 
reassessed our store pipeline and the potential to achieve an appropriate 
return on capital. This resulted in a decision that some sites will no longer 
be developed, for which a charge of £287 million has been recognised. 
A charge of £341 million has also been recognised in relation to 
unprofitable and marginally profitable trading stores.
Core retail capital expenditure this year was £947 million (2013/14: 
£888 million). New space delivered a 1.7 per cent contribution to 
sales growth, slightly below our expectations, as a result of the 
timing of store openings during the year. 32
Strategic Report
Financial Review continued
Our return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) decreased by 157 basis points 
to 9.7 per cent. ROCE excluding the pension fund deficit was 9.0 per 
cent, a decline of 149 basis points year-on-year. ROCE decline was 
driven by reduced profitability, although this was partly offset by the 
impairment of fixed assets, reducing closing capital employed.
Sainsbury’s achieved around £140 million of operational cost savings, 
which more than offset the impact of inflationary pressures on costs 
during the year. The balance sheet remained stable and the business 
has funding in place of over £3.8 billion, including a revolving credit 
facility (‘RCF’) of over £1.1 billion, of which only £0.1 billion was 
drawn at the year-end. On 5 May 2015, the Group refinanced its 
unsecured RCF with a new secured recourse £1,150 million RCF , 
with a final maturity of 2020. The new secured corporate facility is 
the same size as, and has substantially similar economic terms to, 
the previous unsecured facility, and contains no financial covenants. 
Net debt ended the year at £2,343 million, lower than expected, 
driven by improvements in retail working capital.
Underlying basic earnings per share decreased to 26.4 pence 
(2013/14: 32.8 pence), a 19.5 per cent decline year-on-year. 
This decline was greater than the decline in underlying profit, due to 
the impact of a higher underlying tax rate and the effect of additional 
shares issued during the year. Basic loss per share was 8.7 pence in 
2014/15 (2013/14: 37.7 pence earnings per share), lower than the 
underlying basic earnings per share mainly due to the impact of the 
£628 million impairment and onerous contract provisions.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.2 pence  
(2013/14: 12.3 pence), making a full-year dividend of 13.2 pence 
(2013/14: 17.3 pence), down 23.7 per cent year-on-year and covered 
two times by underlying earnings. In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s will 
continue to pay an affordable dividend at two times cover.
Despite the challenging market environment, next year will be an 
exciting one for Sainsbury’s as we progress with our strategy, which 
includes the continuing programme to integrate Sainsbury’s Bank 
into the business and our convenience store opening programme. 
Alongside this, our priority is to step up our cost saving programme 
including an increased focus on delivering cross-functional efficiency 
savings, improving operational cash flow and working capital 
management and driving returns from our investments.
Summary income statement
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change 
%
Underlying Group sales (including VAT)
1
26,122 26,353 (0.9)
Retail sales (including VAT) 25,813 26,328 (2.0)
Underlying Group sales (excluding VAT)
1
23,752 23,946 (0.8)
Retail sales (excluding VAT) 23,443 23,921 (2.0)
Underlying operating profit
Retailing
Financial services – Sainsbury’s Bank
2
720
62
873
6
(17.5)
933.3
Total underlying operating profit 782 879 (11.0)
Underlying net finance costs
3
(107) (111) 3.6
Underlying share of post-tax profit from JVs
2,4
6 30 (80.0)
Underlying profit before tax 681 798 (14.7)
Items excluded from underlying results (753) 100 (853.0)
(Loss)/profit before tax (72) 898 (108.0)
Income tax expense (94) (182) 48.4
(Loss)/profit for the financial period (166) 716 (123.2)
Underlying basic earnings per share 26.4p 32.8p (19.5)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (8.7)p 37.7p (123.1)
Dividend per share 13.2p 17.3p (23.7)
1.  Underlying Group sales excludes a £23 million acquisition adjustment fair value unwind relating to Sainsbury’s Bank (2013/14: £3 million).
2. In 2013/14 Sainsbury’s Bank was recognised as a joint venture for 46 weeks and fully consolidated for four weeks (from 1 February 2014 to 28 February 2014).
3. Net finance costs before financing fair value movements and the IAS 19 pension financing charge.
4.  The underlying share of post-tax profit from JVs is stated before investment property fair value movements, financing fair value movements, profit on disposal of properties and Sainsbury’s Bank one-off costs. Strategic Report
33
Retail sales (including VAT) and space
Retail sales (including fuel) decreased by 2.0 per cent to £25,813 
million (2013/14: £26,328 million). This includes a 1.6 per cent 
contribution from new space (excluding extensions and replacements) 
and a like-for-like (‘LFL ’) sales decline of 3.6 per cent.
Retail sales growth (including VAT, including fuel)
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
%
2014
%
Like-for-like sales (3.6) –
Net new space (excluding extensions and replacements) 1.6 2.7
Total sales growth (2.0) 2.7
Retail sales (excluding fuel) decreased by 0.2 per cent, with a 
LFL decline of 1.9 per cent. This was a smaller decline than sales 
including fuel due to retail price deflation in fuel and lower LFL fuel 
volumes. The decline was due to the continued challenging market 
conditions, price deflation in many food categories and acceleration 
in more frequent, convenient shopping resulting in smaller basket 
sizes. Sainsbury’s growth was behind the market, with market share 
declining 25 basis points year-on-year to 16.5 per cent for the 52 
weeks to 1 March 2015 (as measured by Kantar).
The contribution from net new space (excluding extensions and 
replacements) of 1.7 per cent was slightly lower than Sainsbury’s 
expectations, as a result of the timing of store openings during the year.
Our multi-channel strategy enables customers to shop whenever, 
wherever and however they want. The convenience business grew 
sales by over 16 per cent to over £2.1 billion, ahead of the market, 
and groceries online grew by over seven per cent year-on-year, lower 
than the previous year’s growth reflecting increased competitor 
acquisition activity and customers shopping more frequently with 
smaller basket sizes across different channels. Sainsbury’s non-food 
offer continued to grow sales ahead of the market, supported by 
continued range development and the roll-out of new space.
Store numbers and retailing space
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Supermarkets Convenience Total
Number
Area
000 sq ft Number
Area
000 sq ft Number
Area 
000 sq ft
At 15 March 2014 592 20,744 611 1,416 1,203 22,160
New stores 8 381 98 229 106 610 
Disposals/closures (3) (66) (2) (8) (5) (74)
Extensions/refurbishments/downsizes – 131 – (8) – 123 
At 14 March 2015 597 21,190 707 1,629 1,304 22,819 
Memorandum:
Extensions 5 79 – – 5 79 
Refurbishments/downsizes 13 52 43 (8) 56 44 
Total projects 18 131 43 (8) 61 123 
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects LFL sales to be negative, driven by 
challenging market conditions and food price deflation. Contribution 
from net new space (excluding extensions and replacements) is 
expected to be slightly lower than 2014/15. Contribution from 
extensions is expected to be 0.1 per cent.
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects to deliver around 450,000 sq ft of 
gross new space, with one to two new convenience store openings 
per week.
Retail sales growth (including VAT, excluding fuel)
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
%
2014
%
Like-for-like sales
1
(1.9) 0.2
Net new space (excluding extensions and replacements) 1.7 2.5
Total sales growth (0.2) 2.7
1. This includes a 0.2 per cent contribution from stores extended in 2014/15, net of disruptions (2013/14: 0.2 per cent).
Average trading intensity (‘TI’) excluding fuel declined to £18.24 per 
sq ft per week (2013/14: £18.93 per sq ft per week) due to the 
challenging market conditions, in particular declining supermarket 
food volumes. Convenience TI decreased £0.09 per sq ft to £26.90 
per sq ft per week, primarily due to a slight fall in TI of newly 
opened stores.
Sainsbury’s added a gross 733,000 sq ft of selling space in the year 
(including replacements and extensions), an increase of 3.3 per cent 
(2013/14: 1,013,000 sq ft, an increase of 4.8 per cent). Including the 
impact of closures, this translated into net space growth of 659,000 
sq ft, an increase of 3.0 per cent since the start of the year (2013/14: 
895,000 sq ft, an increase of 4.2 per cent).
In 2014/15, Sainsbury’s opened eight new supermarkets, of which 
two were replacement stores (2013/14: 13 new supermarkets,  
of which three were replacements) and completed 13 supermarket 
refurbishments, five extensions and one closure (2013/14: 15 supermarket 
refurbishments, six extensions and one closure). Convenience 
continues to be a key area of growth, with 98 stores opened during 
the year (2013/14: 91 stores). Two convenience stores were closed 
(2013/14: three stores) and 43 were refurbished (2013/14: 39 stores).
Net of replacements, closures and disposals, closing space of 
22,819,000 sq ft was 3.0 per cent higher than last year 
(2013/14: 22,160,000 sq ft). 34
Strategic Report
Financial Review continued
Retail underlying operating profit
Retail underlying operating profit decreased by 17.5 per cent to 
£720 million (2013/14: £873 million), reflecting lower LFL sales 
and investment in the customer offer in order to remain price 
competitive. This was partly offset by increased cost savings 
year-on-year of around £140 million (2013/14: £120 million).
Retail underlying operating margin declined by 58 basis points 
year-on-year to 3.07 per cent (2013/14: 3.65 per cent), which resulted 
in a 62 basis points decline at constant fuel prices. Retail underlying 
EBITDAR margin decreased by 29 basis points to 7.76 per cent, or a 
39 basis points decline to 7.66 per cent at constant fuel prices.
Retail underlying operating profit
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015 2014 Change
Change at 
constant 
fuel prices
Retail underlying operating profit (£m)
1
720 873 (17.5)%
Retail underlying operating margin (%)
2
3.07 3.65 (58)bps (62)bps
Retail underlying EBITDAR (£m)
3
1,819 1,926 (5.6)%
Retail underlying EBITDAR margin (%)
4
7.76 8.05 (29)bps (39)bps
1.  Underlying earnings before interest, tax, Sainsbury’s Bank underlying operating profit and 
Sainsbury’s underlying share of post-tax profit from JVs.
2. Retail underlying operating profit divided by retail sales excluding VAT .
3. Retail underlying operating profit before rent, depreciation and amortisation.
4. Retail underlying EBITDAR divided by retail sales excluding VAT.
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects cost inflation at the lower end of the 
two to three per cent range and efficiency savings of around £200 
million, in line with our plan to deliver £500 million of savings over the 
next three years. 
We have invested £50 million in price in the second half of 2014/15 
and expect to invest a further £150 million in 2015/16, making our 
overall price investment £200 million. However, as a result of lowering 
our prices, volumes have increased, leading to a net cost to the 
business of £40 million in 2014/15 and an expected £110 million 
in 2015/16.
We will remain competitive on price in the market. 
Financial services – Sainsbury’s Bank
Sainsbury’s completed its purchase of the remaining 50 per cent of 
Sainsbury’s Bank on 31 January 2014 and the Bank has been 100 per 
cent consolidated throughout 2014/15. The Bank contributed £62 
million to Group underlying profit before tax (2013/14: £24 million).
Sainsbury’s Bank results
2015
1
2014
2
Change
%
Total income (£m)
3 
260 229 13.5
Underlying operating profit (£m) 62 53 17.0
Recognised as a joint venture (£m) – 18
Consolidated as a subsidiary (£m) 62 6
Impact on Group underlying profit  
 before tax (£m)
 
62
 
24
 
158.3
Net interest margin (%)
4
3.9 3.1 79bps
Bad debt as a percentage of lending (%)
5
0.7 1.1 40bps
Tier 1 capital ratio (%)
6
12.7 13.6 (91)bps
1. 12 months to 28 February 2015.
2. 50 weeks to 28 February 2014.
3. Net interest and net commission income.
4. Net interest receivable divided by average interest-bearing assets.
5. Bad debt expense divided by gross lending as at year-end.
6. Year-end Tier 1 capital divided by year-end risk-weighted assets.
Sainsbury’s Bank total income increased by 13.5 per cent to 
£260 million (2013/14: £229 million), mainly due to lower market 
savings rates which resulted in a reduction in interest payable. In 
addition, lending increased, however this was offset by competition 
in the personal loans market causing headline rates to fall.
Sainsbury’s Bank delivered an underlying operating profit of 
£62 million, a 17.0 per cent increase year-on-year. This increase was 
driven by the higher total income and favourable bad debt levels, 
partly offset by incremental running costs associated with the move 
to a new, more flexible banking platform. 
Net interest margin increased by 79 basis points year-on-year to 
3.9 per cent (2013/14: 3.1 per cent) mainly driven by changes to the 
funding structure. Bad debt levels as a percentage of lending 
improved to 0.7 per cent (2013/14: 1.1 per cent) as a result of 
improved recovery processes, low market interest rates and improving 
economic conditions. The Tier 1 capital ratio decreased by 91 basis 
points year-on-year to 12.7 per cent (28 February 2014: 13.6 per 
cent), reflecting increased customer lending and intangible assets 
and one-off costs associated with transitioning Sainsbury’s Bank to a 
new, more flexible banking platform. 
Whilst our transition plans remain on time and in line with budget to 
date, we see total costs (capital and revenue) for the project going 
forward rising by between £80 million and £120 million, taking our 
overall spend to between £340 million and £380 million. In 2015/16, 
Sainsbury’s Bank is expected to deliver mid-single digit year-on-year 
growth in underlying operating profit. Capital injections to the Bank 
in 2015/16 are expected to be circa £80 million. Strategic Report
35
Property and other joint ventures (‘JV’)
Sainsbury’s underlying share of post-tax profit from its JV with British 
Land was £13 million (2013/14: £14 million). Its underlying share of 
post-tax profit from the JV with Land Securities was £2 million 
(2013/14: £2 million).
An investment property fair value increase of £7 million was 
recognised within the share of post-tax profit from the JVs in the 
income statement (2013/14: £nil), with average property yields of 
the JVs decreasing to 5.0 per cent, 0.2 percentage points lower than 
the prior year (2013/14: 5.2 per cent), partly offset by rental increases.
In June 2014, Sainsbury’s announced a 50 per cent JV with Dansk 
Supermarked to trial Netto, a discount retailer, within the UK market. 
Netto opened five stores in November 2014 in the north of England 
with the next ten stores to be opened by the end of 2015/16.
Sainsbury’s recognised a net £9 million share of loss (2013/14: net 
£4 million share of loss) from the three start-up JVs: Netto, Mobile by 
Sainsbury’s and I
2
C. This loss was driven by start-up costs.
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects the share of profit from the property 
JVs to be slightly lower year-on-year. Sainsbury’s share of loss from 
the start-up JVs, including Netto, is expected to be similar to 2014/15.
Underlying net finance costs
Underlying net finance costs decreased by £4 million year-on-year to 
£107 million (2013/14: £111 million). This was mainly driven by a 
change in mix of borrowings, partly offset by a reduction in 
capitalised interest.
Underlying net finance costs
1
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying finance income 19 20
Interest costs (143) (157)
Capitalised interest 17 26
Underlying finance costs (126) (131)
Underlying net finance costs (107) (111)
1.  Finance income/costs before financing fair value movements and the IAS 19 pension financing 
charge.
Sainsbury’s expects underlying net finance costs in 2015/16 to 
increase slightly year-on-year driven by lower capitalised interest.
Items excluded from underlying results
Items excluded from underlying results totalled a charge of 
£753 million (2013/14: £100 million credit), mainly due to one-off items.
Items excluded from underlying results
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Profit on disposal of properties 7 52
Investment property fair value movements 7 –
Retail financing fair value movements (30) (8)
IAS 19 pension financing charge (31) (23)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses (6) (7)
Acquisition adjustments 13 18
One-off items (713) 68
Total items excluded from underlying results (753) 100
One-off items
The charge to one-off items of £713 million (2013/14: £68 million 
credit) includes: a non-cash impairment and onerous contract charge 
of £628 million; costs of £53 million in relation to transitioning 
Sainsbury’s Bank to a new, more flexible banking platform; 
£17 million pension compensation payments made to employees as 
a result of the closure of Sainsbury’s defined benefit pension scheme 
to future accrual; and internal restructuring costs of £15 million.
The £628 million charge was announced in November 2014 following 
our strategic review, during which we reassessed our store pipeline 
and the potential to achieve an appropriate return on capital. This 
resulted in a decision that some sites will no longer be developed, for 
which a non-cash impairment charge of £257 million and onerous 
contract provisions of £30 million have been recognised. A charge of 
£341 million has also been incurred in relation to unprofitable and 
marginally profitable stores, comprising a £291 million impairment 
and £50 million of onerous lease provisions.
One-off items
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Impairment and onerous contract charge (628) (92)
Sainsbury’s Bank costs (53) (45)
Pension past service credit and compensation payments (17) 148
Nectar VAT – 76
Other (15) (19)
Total one-off items (713) 68
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s Bank costs for transitioning to a new, more 
flexible banking platform are expected to be around £50 million (capital 
costs relating to the transition are expected to be around £75 million).
Property profits over the next two years from mixed-use 
developments are expected to be around £200 million.
Taxation 
The income tax charge was £94 million (2013/14: £182 million), with 
an underlying tax rate of 25.8 per cent (2013/14: 21.9 per cent) and 
an effective tax rate of (130.6) per cent (2013/14: 20.3 per cent). The 
underlying rate is higher than last year, mainly due to the revaluation 
of deferred tax balances reducing the rate in the prior year, but not 
repeated in the current year. The effective tax rate was negative, 
mainly as a result of the impairment costs not being deductible for 
tax purposes.
Underlying tax rate
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Profit 
£m
Tax 
£m
Rate
%
Profit before tax, and tax thereon (72) (94) (130.6)
Adjustments (and tax thereon) for:  
 Profit on disposal of properties (7) (10)
 Investment property fair value movements (7) – 
 Retail financing fair value movements 30 (5) 
 IAS 19 pension financing charge 31 (7) 
 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 6 (1)
 Acquisition adjustments (13) 4 
 One-off items 713 (63) 
Underlying profit before tax,  
 and tax thereon
 
681
 
(176)
 
25.8
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects the underlying tax rate to be similar 
to 2014/15. 36
Strategic Report
Financial Review continued
In the UK, there are a large number of taxes, of which many are 
relevant for Sainsbury’s. In 2014/15, Sainsbury’s paid £1.7 billion 
(2013/14: £1.8 billion) to the UK government, of which £854 million 
(2013/14: £825 million) was borne by Sainsbury’s and the remaining 
£863 million (2013/14: £949 million) was collected on behalf of our 
colleagues, customers and suppliers. Sainsbury’s participate in the 
Total T ax Contribution PwC Survey for The 100 Group of Finance 
Directors. In the year to March 2014, our total taxes borne ranked 
sixth amongst the survey participants.
The key taxes paid by Sainsbury’s were business rates of £489 million 
(2013/14: £432 million), employers’ national insurance of 
£145 million (2013/14: £141 million) and UK corporation tax of 
£90 million (2013/14: £140 million). Other taxes including customs 
duty, excise duty, VAT and energy taxes totalled £130 million 
(2013/14: £112 million). In addition, £1 million of corporation tax 
was paid to overseas governments.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share decreased by 19.5 per cent to 
26.4 pence (2013/14: 32.8 pence) reflecting the fall in underlying 
profits, a higher underlying tax rate year-on-year and additional 
shares issued during the year.
The weighted average number of shares in issue was 1,911.0 million 
(2013/14: 1,896.8 million), an increase of 14.2 million shares or 
0.7 per cent. Basic loss per share was 8.7 pence (2013/14: 37.7 pence 
earnings). The basic loss per share was lower than the underlying 
basic earnings per share due to the items excluded from 
underlying results.
Underlying earnings per share
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
pence 
per share
2014
pence 
per share
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (8.7) 37.7
Adjustments (net of tax) for:
 Profit on disposal of properties (0.9) (2.8)
 Investment property fair value movements (0.4) –
 Retail financing fair value movements 1.3 0.4
 IAS 19 pension financing charge 1.3 0.9
 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 0.3 0.3
 Acquisition adjustments (0.5) (0.9)
 One-off items 34.0 (1.7)
Revaluation of deferred tax balances – (1.1)
Underlying basic earnings per share 26.4 32.8
Dividends
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share 
(2013/14: 12.3 pence). This will be paid on 10 July 2015 to 
shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 
15 May 2015, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM. This 
will result in a decrease to the full-year dividend of 23.7 per cent to 
13.2 pence per share (2013/14: 17.3 pence).
The proposed final dividend was recommended by the Board on 
5 May 2015 and, as such, has not been included as a liability as at 
14 March 2015.
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s will maintain dividend cover at two times our 
underlying earnings for the full year.
Financing
The Group’s key financing objectives are to diversify funding sources, 
to minimise refinancing risk and to maintain appropriate standby 
liquidity. As at 14 March 2015, the Group had drawn borrowing 
facilities of £2.8 billion and undrawn but committed borrowing 
facilities of £1.0 billion at its disposal.
The principal elements of the Group’s core borrowings comprise two 
long-term loans of £850 million due 2018 and £811 million due 
2031, both secured over property assets. In addition, the Group has 
unsecured borrowings totalling £339 million with maturities ranging 
from 2015 to 2019, and £127 million of hire purchase facilities.
During the year, the Group maintained a syndicated committed 
revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) for £1,150 million. The facility is split 
into two tranches; a £500 million Facility (A) maturing in March 2017 
and a £650 million Facility (B) maturing in March 2019. As at 
14 March 2015, £120 million had been drawn under Facility (A) 
(2013/14: £200 million) and £nil under Facility (B) (2013/14: £nil). 
The £1,150 million facility and bank loans contain only one financial 
covenant, being the ratio of EBITDAR to consolidated net interest plus 
net rental expenditure, the ‘Fixed Charge Cover’ ratio. As at 14 March 
2015, Sainsbury’s comfortably passed this covenant test.
On 5 May 2015, the Group refinanced its unsecured RCF with a new 
secured recourse £1,150 million RCF , with a final maturity of 2020. 
The new secured corporate facility is the same size as, and has 
substantially similar economic terms to, the previous unsecured 
facility, with the structure also maintained on a dual tranche basis  
(a £500 million Facility (A) due April 2018 and £650 million Facility 
(B) due April 2020). The new facility, which is secured against 60 
supermarket properties, contains no financial covenants.
The Group also amended its £200 million unsecured bank loan due 
November 2019 and its €50 million unsecured bank loan due 
September 2016 into a secured recourse £200 million bank loan due 
November 2019 and a secured recourse €50 million bank loan due 
September 2016. The amended bank loans, which are secured 
against ten supermarket properties, contain no financial covenants.
Since March 2014, two bilateral bank loans have been repaid for a 
combined total of £65 million and in July 2014 the Group’s £190 
million convertible bond was repaid. The five unsecured private 
placement loans for £184 million were repaid in March 2015, 
before year-end. Of these, the $100 million (£63 million) tranche 
due March 2017 was prepaid before its maturity date.
A new five-year £450 million 1.25 per cent convertible bond was 
entered into in November 2014. A new bilateral bank loan for £200 
million was drawn down in August 2014 and a new hire purchase 
loan for £30 million was entered into in May 2014.
Net debt and cash flows
Sainsbury’s net debt includes the cost of acquiring Sainsbury’s Bank, 
but excludes Sainsbury’s Bank’s own net debt balances. As at 
14 March 2015, net debt was £2,343 million (15 March 2014: £2,384 
million), a decrease of £41 million year-on-year. The year-on-year 
decrease was primarily driven by an improvement in retail working 
capital, partly offset by higher net capital expenditure, due to no sale 
and leaseback activity and a lower underlying operating profit. Strategic Report
37
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital decreased by 
17.8 per cent to £1,123 million (2013/14: £1,366 million) and cash 
generated from operations decreased by 7.4 per cent to £1,136 
million (2013/14: £1,227 million, 3.2 per cent decrease), mainly due 
to a lower underlying operating profit. 
Total working capital decreased by £13 million from 15 March 2014, 
driven by a £313 million improvement in retail working capital, partly 
offset by a £300 million increase in Sainsbury’s Bank working capital. 
The increase in Sainsbury’s Bank working capital reflects positive steps 
taken by the Bank to optimise its funding position and support lending 
via the government’s Funding for Lending Scheme. The £313 million 
improvement in retail working capital was mainly due to an increase in 
trade payables of £243 million as a result of operational efficiencies.
The net cash used in investing activities of £900 million was 
£310 million higher year-on-year (2013/14: £590 million), driven by 
lower proceeds from property transactions. Receipt of new debt of 
£674 million during the year mainly relates to a £200 million bilateral 
bank loan drawn down in August 2014 for a five-year term, 
£30 million from a five-year hire purchase agreement, and a new 
five-year £450 million convertible bond. The new debt offsets 
£659 million of borrowings repaid during the year.
Summary cash flow statement
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating cash flow before changes in  
 working capital
1,123 1,366 
Decrease/(increase) in retail working capital 313 (128)
Increase in Sainsbury's Bank working capital (300) (11)
Cash generated from operations 1,136 1,227 
Interest paid (134) (148)
Corporation tax paid (91) (140)
Net cash from operating activities 911 939 
Net cash used in investing activities (900) (590)
Acquisition of Sainsbury’s Bank, net of cash acquired – 1,016 
Proceeds from issue of shares 19 19 
Purchase of own shares (18) –
Receipt of new debt 674 450 
Repayment of borrowings (659) (439)
Dividends paid (330) (320)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (303) 1,075 
Elimination of net increase in Sainsbury's Bank cash and  
 cash equivalents
343 (1,225)
Increase in debt (31) (27)
Fair value and other non-cash movements 32 (45)
Movement in net debt 41 (222)
Sainsbury’s expects 2015/16 year-end net debt to reduce year-on-year 
and a small improvement in retail working capital.
Retail capital expenditure
Core retail capital expenditure increased by £59 million year-on-year 
to £947 million (2013/14: £888 million). Core retail capital 
expenditure as a percentage of retail sales (including fuel, including 
VAT) was 3.7 per cent (2013/14: 3.4 per cent).
Supermarket openings decreased by five during the year to eight 
(2013/14: 13 supermarkets). Sainsbury’s stepped up its convenience 
opening programme in the year with 98 new convenience stores 
(2013/14: 91 convenience stores).
During the year, there were five extensions completed (2013/14: six 
extensions). Sainsbury’s also delivered 56 refurbishments during the 
year (2013/14: 54 refurbishments) consisting of 13 supermarkets 
(2013/14: 15 supermarkets) and 43 convenience stores (2013/14: 
39 convenience stores).
There were no sale and leaseback proceeds in the year (2013/14: 
£301 million), resulting in net retail capital expenditure of 
£941 million (2013/14: £628 million).
Retail capital expenditure
52 weeks to 14 March 2015 2015 2014
New store development (£m) 425 418
Extensions and refurbishments (£m) 284 274
Other – including supply chain and IT (£m) 238 196
Core retail capital expenditure (£m) 947 888
Acquisition of freehold and trading properties (£m)
1
(9) 41
Proceeds from property transactions (£m)
2
3 (301)
Net retail capital expenditure (£m) 941 628
Capex/sales ratio (%)
3
3.7 3.4
1.  2014/15 balance includes income from Harvest, our JV with Land Securities, relating to the 
repayment of a loan.
2 Includes movement in timing of capital debtors and creditors.
3 Core retail capital expenditure divided by retail sales (including fuel, including VAT).
In 2015/16, Sainsbury’s expects core retail capital expenditure 
(excluding Sainsbury’s Bank) to be around £550 million. 
Return on capital employed
The return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) over the 52 weeks to 
14 March 2015 was 9.7 per cent (2013/14: 11.3 per cent), a decrease 
of 157 basis points year-on-year. ROCE is enhanced by the net 
pension deficit, which reduces capital employed.
ROCE excluding the net pension deficit over the 52 weeks to 14 March 
2015 was 9.0 per cent (2013/14: 10.4 per cent), a year-on-year 
decrease of 149 basis points. ROCE decline was due to the fall in 
underlying operating profit driven by lower LFL sales, partly offset by 
the non-cash impairment and onerous contract charge of £628 
million, reducing closing capital employed.
Return on capital employed
52 weeks to 14 March 2015 2015 2014
2
Underlying operating profit (£m) 782 879
Underlying share of post-tax profit from JVs (£m) 6 30
Underlying profit before interest and tax (£m) 788 909
Average capital employed (£m)
1
8,136 8,073
Return on capital employed (%) 9.7 11.3
Return on capital employed  
 (excluding pension fund deficit) (%)
 
9.0
 
10.4
52 week ROCE movement to 14 March 2015 (157)bps
52 week ROCE movement to 14 March 2015  
 (excluding pension fund deficit)
(149)bps
1.  Average of opening and closing net assets before net debt.
2.  The closing capital employed for the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 has been reduced by 50 per cent 
of Sainsbury’s Bank consolidated net assets (£243 million) to reflect the fact that the Bank was 
only consolidated in the accounts for four weeks of the 2013/14 financial year.
Summary balance sheet
Shareholders’ funds as at 14 March 2015 were £5,539 million 
(15 March 2014: £6,005 million), a decrease of £466 million, mainly 
attributable to the non-cash impairment and onerous contract 
charge of £628 million.
The book value of property, plant and equipment, including land and 
buildings, decreased by £240 million (excluding Sainsbury’s Bank) 
since the year-end driven by the impairment, offset by continued 
space growth. 38
Strategic Report
Financial Review continued
Net debt was £41 million lower than at 15 March 2014 driven by 
improvements in retail working capital, partly offset by increases in 
capital expenditure and lower profit.
Sainsbury’s Bank net assets at 28 February 2015 of £504 million 
(28 February 2014: £485 million) have been consolidated and 
separately identified.
Adjusted net debt to EBITDAR was 4.1 times (2013/14: 3.9 times) and 
interest cover reduced to 7.4 times (2013/14: 8.2 times). Fixed charge 
cover reduced to 2.9 times (2013/14: 3.1 times). Gearing increased 
year-on-year to 42.3 per cent (15 March 2014: 39.7 per cent) as a 
result of the reduction in equity shareholder funds. Excluding the 
pension deficit, gearing increased to 37.9 per cent (15 March 2014: 
35.7 per cent).
Summary balance sheet 
(Sainsbury’s Bank separated)
at 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Movement
£m
Land and buildings (freehold and  
 long leasehold) 
6,890 7,127 (237)
Land and buildings (short leasehold) 791 751 40
Fixtures and fittings 1,941 1,984 (43)
Property, plant and equipment 9,622 9,862 (240)
Other non-current assets 828 790 38
Inventories 997 1,005 (8)
Trade and other receivables 294 290 4
Sainsbury’s Bank assets
1
4,267 4,113 154
 Cash and cash equivalents 403 367 36
 Debt (2,746) (2,751) 5
Net debt (2,343) (2,384) 41
Trade and other payables and provisions (3,712) (3,364) (348)
Retirement benefit obligations,  
 net of deferred tax 
 
(651)
 
(679)
 
28
Sainsbury’s Bank liabilities
1
(3,763) (3,628) (135)
Net assets 5,539 6,005 (466)
Key financial ratios 
Adjusted net debt to EBITDAR
2
 4.1 times 3.9 times
Interest cover
3
 7.4 times 8.2 times
Fixed charge cover
4
 2.9 times 3.1 times
Gearing
5
42.3% 39.7%
Gearing (excluding pension  
 deficit)
6
 
37.9% 35.7%
1. As at 28 February.
2.  Net debt of £2,343 million plus capitalised lease obligations of £5,417 million (5.5 per cent 
discount rate), divided by Group underlying EBITDAR of £1,890 million.
3. Underlying profit before interest and tax divided by underlying net finance costs.
4. Group underlying EBITDAR divided by net rent and underlying net finance costs.
5. Net debt divided by net assets.
6. Net debt divided by net assets, excluding pension deficit.
As at 14 March 2015, Sainsbury’s estimated market value of properties, 
including our 50 per cent share of properties held within property JVs, 
was £11.1 billion (15 March 2014: £12.0 billion). The £0.9 billion decrease 
year-on-year was mainly due to a reduction in market rental values which 
has impacted the portfolio value by £0.6 billion, as well as a £0.2 billion 
non-cash impairment taken in the first half. The summary balance sheet 
presented above discloses Sainsbury’s Bank assets and liabilities 
separately to aid interpretation. A summary balance sheet is also 
presented with Sainsbury’s Bank consolidated by line.
Summary balance sheet 
(Sainsbury’s Bank consolidated)
at 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Movement
£m
Land and buildings (freehold and  
 long leasehold) 
 
6,892
 
7,127
 
(235)
Land and buildings (short leasehold) 791 751 40
Fixtures and fittings 1,965 2,002 (37)
Property, plant and equipment 9,648 9,880 (232)
Other non-current assets 2,411 2,234 177
Inventories 997 1,005 (8)
Trade and other receivables 2,070 1,716 354
Sainsbury’s Bank cash and  
 cash equivalents
 
882
 
1,225
 
(343)
 Cash and cash equivalents 403 367 36
 Debt (2,746) (2,751) 5
Net debt (2,343) (2,384) 41
Trade and other payables and provisions (7,475) (6,992) (483)
Retirement benefit obligations,  
 net of deferred tax 
 
(651)
 
(679)
 
28
Net assets 5,539 6,005 (466)
Defined benefit pensions 
As at 14 March 2015, the post-tax pension deficit was £651 million, 
an improvement of £28 million year-on-year (15 March 2014: 
£679 million). The year-on-year reduction in the deficit was driven by 
outperformance of assets, partly offset by a fall in the real discount 
rate that increased the present value of funded obligations. 
Sainsbury’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed to future 
accrual from September 2013.
Retirement benefit obligations
at 14 March 2015
2015
£m
2014
£m
Present value of funded obligations (7,680) (6,855)
Fair value of plan assets 6,988 6,131
Pension deficit (692) (724)
Present value of unfunded obligations (16) (13)
Retirement benefit obligations (708) (737)
Deferred income tax asset 57 58
Net retirement benefit obligations (651) (679)
Enhanced disclosure
In response to the Financial Reporting Council issued press notice in 
December 2014, calling on boards of retailers, suppliers and other 
businesses to provide investors with sufficient information on their 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates arising from their 
complex supplier arrangements, we have provided additional 
information explaining the types of supplier income at Sainsbury’s 
and any significant judgements and estimates. 
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as 
‘supplier income’, are recognised within cost of sales on an accruals 
basis as they are earned for each relevant supplier contract. These fall 
into three key categories:
 —  Discounts and supplier incentives, representing the majority of all 
supplier income, linked to individual unit sales. The incentive is 
typically based on an agreed sum per item sold on promotion for 
a period. These are calculated through a mechanical process with 
no judgement and estimation involved in recording the income 
received, which is collected in a timely manner throughout the 
period.  Strategic Report
39
Approval of the Strategic Report
Pages 1 to 39 of the Annual Report form the Strategic Report. Disclosures 
concerning diversity, greenhouse gas emissions and human rights appear 
on pages 50, 52 and 75 respectively.
By order of the Board
Tim Fallowfield
Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director
5 May 2015
—  Fixed amounts agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store 
activity including promotions, such as utilising specific space. 
These involve a degree of judgement and estimation in ensuring 
the appropriate cut-off of arrangements for fixed amounts which 
span period-end. These require judgement to confirm that the 
terms of the arrangement are satisfied and that amounts are 
recognised in the correct period.
—  Supplier rebates are typically agreed on an annual basis, aligned 
with the financial year and are earned based on pre-agreed 
targets, mainly linked to sales. These require estimates of the 
income earned up to the balance sheet date, for each relevant 
supplier contract. Where agreements span a financial period-end, 
estimations are required of projected turnover and judgement 
may also need to be applied to determine the rebate level earned 
as agreements may involve multiple tiers. In order to minimise 
any risk arising from estimation, supplier confirmations are also 
obtained to agree the value to be recognised at year-end, prior to 
it being invoiced. Rebates represent the smallest element of 
Sainsbury’s supplier income and by aligning the agreements to 
Sainsbury’s financial year where possible, judgements required 
are minimised.
Supplier income represents a material deduction to cost of sales and 
directly affects the Group’s reported margin. The supplier 
arrangements resulting in this supplier income can be complex, with 
income spanning multiple products over different time periods, and 
there can be multiple triggers and discounts. 
We have not disclosed the quantum of supplier income within the 
Group income statement as this information is commercially 
sensitive. We have not disclosed the quantum of supplier income 
within the balance sheet as the amounts are considered to be not 
significant in the context of the balance sheet as a whole and give no 
further understanding or comparability to other companies for the 
reader of the financial statements.
John Rogers
Chief Financial Officer 40
Directors’ Report
J Sainsbury plc: Board of Directors
3
6
9
2
5
8
1
4
7
10 Directors’ Report
41
1. David Tyler
Chairman (Age 62)
 
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009, David 
became Chairman on 1 November 2009. He is also 
Non-Executive Chairman of Hammerson plc and 
a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc. 
He was previously Finance Director of GUS plc 
(1997-2006) and has held senior financial and 
general management roles with Christie’s 
International PLC (1989-96), County NatWest 
Limited (1986-89) and Unilever PLC (1974-86). 
He was Chairman of Logica PLC (2006-12) and of 
3i Quoted Private Equity plc (2007-09), and a 
Non-Executive Director of Experian plc (2006-12) 
and of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (2007-09). 
He has also been Chairman of Hampstead Theatre 
since 2012.
2. Mike Coupe
Chief Executive Officer (Age 54)
 
Appointed Chief Executive Officer on 9 July 2014, 
Mike has been a member of the Operating Board 
since October 2004 and an Executive Director 
since 1 August 2007. Mike joined Sainsbury’s from 
The Big Food Group where he was a Board Director 
of The Big Food Group PLC and Managing Director 
of Iceland Food Stores. He previously worked for 
both ASDA and Tesco, where he served in a variety 
of senior management roles. Mike is a Non-
Executive Director of Greene King plc and was 
formerly a director of I
2
C. 
3. John Rogers
Chief Financial Officer (Age 46)
Appointed Chief Financial Officer on 19 July 2010, 
John is also a member of the Board of Sainsbury’s 
Bank plc. John joined Sainsbury’s in November 
2005 as Director of Corporate Finance and then 
became Director of Group Finance from March 
2007 to July 2008. In July 2008, he was appointed 
to the Operating Board as Property Director. John is 
co-chair of the Chief Financial Officer Leadership 
Network, established by the Accounting for 
Sustainability (A4S) Project founded by HRH The 
Prince of Wales. Prior to Sainsbury’s, John was 
Group Finance Director for Hanover Acceptances, 
a diversified corporation with wholly owned 
subsidiaries in the food manufacturing, real estate 
and agri-business sectors. John is a Non-Executive 
Director of Travis Perkins plc. 
4. Matt Brittin
Non-Executive Director (Age 46)
  
Appointed to the Board on 27 January 2011,  
Matt is Google’s President – Europe, Middle East  
& Africa. Before joining Google to run its UK 
operations at the start of 2007, Matt spent much 
of his career in media and marketing, with 
particular interests in strategy, commercial 
development and sales performance. This 
included commercial and digital leadership roles 
in UK media. He is also a Director of two charities, 
The Climate Group and The Media Trust.
5. Mary Harris
Non-Executive Director (Age 49)
   
Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2007, Mary 
is a Non-Executive Director of ITV plc and a 
Non-Executive Director of RB plc (formerly Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc) and a member of the 
supervisory boards of TNT Express NV , Unibail-
Rodamco S.E. and Scotch & Soda NV . She 
previously spent much of her career with 
McKinsey & Company, most recently as a partner, 
where she worked primarily with retail/consumer 
clients in China, South East Asia and Europe. Mary 
previously worked for PepsiCo in Greece and the 
UK, as a sales and marketing executive. 
6. Gary Hughes
Non-Executive Director (Age 53)
  
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2005, Gary 
is a Senior Advisor within the Portfolio Support 
Group of Apax Partners LLP , the global private 
equity firm, a Non-Executive Director of SMART 
Technologies Inc, The Scottish Football Association 
Limited, Matomy Media Group plc and Premier 
Farnell plc and a Director of Scottish Exhibition 
Centre Limited. Formerly he was Chief Financial 
Officer of Gala Coral Group (2008-11) and Chief 
Executive of CMP Information Limited, a division 
of United Business Media Plc (2006-08), Group 
Finance Director of Emap plc (2000-05), Group 
Finance Director of SMG plc (1996-2000), and 
Deputy Finance Director of Forte Plc (1994-96). 
Prior to this Gary held a number of senior 
management positions with Guinness PLC 
in the UK and in North America. 
7. David Keens
Non-Executive Director (Age 61)
  
Appointed to the Board on 29 April 2015, David is 
also a Non-Executive Director of Auto Trader Group 
plc. David was formerly Group Finance Director of 
NEXT plc (1991-2015) and their Group Treasurer 
(1986-91). Previous management experience 
includes nine years in the UK and overseas 
operations of multinational food manufacturers 
Nabisco (1977-86) and prior to that seven years 
in the accountancy profession. 
8. John McAdam (Age 67)
Non-Executive Director
  
Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005, John 
is the Senior Independent Director. He is Chairman 
of Rentokil Initial plc and United Utilities Group PLC 
and also a Non-Executive Director of Rolls-Royce 
Group PLC. John joined Unilever PLC as a 
management trainee in 1974 and went on to hold a 
number of senior positions in Birds Eye Walls, Quest 
and Unichema, before the sale of the Specialty 
Chemical Businesses to ICI in 1997. He was Chief 
Executive of ICI plc, until its sale to Akzo Nobel, and 
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee 
Corporation (2008-12) and Severn Trent Plc 
(2000-05). 
9. Susan Rice
Non-Executive Director (Age 69)
  
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013, Susan is 
Chairman of Scottish Water and the new Scottish 
Fiscal Commission, and a Non-Executive Director 
of Big Society Capital Limited, the North American 
Income Trust and the new Banking Standards 
Board. Susan also chairs the Boards of the 
Edinburgh International Book Festival, the 
Edinburgh Festivals Forum and the Governors of 
the National Galleries of Scotland. Susan was 
formerly Chief Executive, then Chairman of Lloyds 
TSB Scotland (2000-09) and Managing Director, 
Lloyds Banking Group (2009-14), a Non-Executive 
Director of Bank of England (2007-14), SSE plc 
(2003-14) and Scotland’s Future Forum.
10. Jean Tomlin
Non-Executive Director (Age 60)
   
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013, Jean 
is an Independent Board member of Michael Kors 
Holdings Limited, Trustee Board Member of Join in 
Trust and Step up to Serve and a member of the 
Council of Loughborough University. Formerly, 
Jean was the Director of HR, Workforce and 
Accreditation for The London Organising 
Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic 
Games where she oversaw the creation and 
execution of the hugely successful Games Maker 
volunteering programme. She was previously 
Group HR Director at Marks and Spencer Group plc, 
HR Director and Founder member of Egg plc and 
Sales & Operations Director of Prudential Direct.
Key to Committee members
 Remuneration Committee
 Audit Committee
 Nomination Committee
  Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee
    Denotes Chairman of Committee
Life President
Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG  42
Directors’ Report
Operating Board
3
6
9
2
5
8
1
4
7
10 Directors’ Report
43
1. Mike Coupe
Chief Executive Officer
See page 41
2. John Rogers
Chief Financial Officer
See page 41
3. Helen Buck
Business Development Director
Helen was appointed to the Operating Board 
in July 2010 as Convenience Director. She was 
appointed Retail Director in March 2012 and 
became Business Development Director in May 
2014 with responsibility for developing the 
business beyond the core, as well as Mobile by 
Sainsbury’s, Sainsbury’s Energy and our online 
business. Helen joined Sainsbury’s in 2005 
and, after spending four years running Brand 
Communications, moved to the Trading Division 
as Business Unit Director, Grocery in 2009. 
Before joining Sainsbury’s, Helen held a number of 
senior positions at Marks and Spencer Group plc, 
Woolworths and Safeway and was a senior 
manager at McKinsey & Company. Since 
December 2011, Helen has been a Non-Executive 
Director of LSL Property Services PLC.
4. Roger Burnley
Retail and Operations Director
Roger joined Sainsbury’s Operating Board in March 
2006 as Supply Chain Director before assuming 
the role of Retail and Logistics Director (2008-12). 
He was then appointed Managing Director of 
General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics 
in March 2012 and was appointed Retail 
and Operations Director in May 2014, with 
responsibility for leading the combined team of 
Supermarkets, Convenience and Logistics. Roger 
was previously Supply Chain Director at Matalan. 
He spent his early career in retail management 
and buying at B&Q before joining ASDA/WalMart, 
where he held a number of positions before 
becoming their Supply Chain Director in 2001. 
In September 2012 he joined the Board of 
Transport for London, for which he is also a 
member of the Surface Transport Panel.
5. Tim Fallowfield
Company Secretary and Corporate 
Services Director
Tim joined Sainsbury’s in 2001 as Company 
Secretary and joined the Operating Board in 2004. 
In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim 
is responsible for the Corporate Services Division 
comprising Legal Services, Public Affairs, Safety, 
Shareholder Services, Insurance, Data Governance 
and Central Security. He chairs the Group Safety 
Committee and the Data Governance Committee. 
Tim joined Sainsbury’s from Exel plc, the global 
logistics company, where he was Company 
Secretary and Head of Legal Services (1994-2001). 
He began his career at the international law firm 
Clifford Chance and is a qualified solicitor.
6. Peter Griffiths
Chief Executive Officer, Sainsbury’s Bank
Peter was appointed Chief Executive Officer, 
Sainsbury’s Bank in November 2012 and joined 
the Operating Board in May 2014. Prior to joining 
Sainsbury’s he was Group Chief Executive of 
Principality, the largest building society in Wales, 
growing it from the 13th largest building society 
in the UK to the 7th, during his decade in charge. 
He previously worked for NatWest (1977-2000), 
and was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan 
Chambers Plc. He is former Chairman of the CBI 
Wales and the Building Societies Association, and 
is a Fellow of UWIC and The Chartered Institute of 
Management. Peter was awarded an OBE in the 
Queen’s Birthday Honours 2010, in recognition of 
his support for the Financial Services Industry. 
7. Paul Mills-Hicks
Food Commercial Director
Paul joined the Operating Board in May 2014 as 
Food Commercial Director having spent more than 
ten years at Sainsbury’s. He was closely involved 
in the formation and execution of the ‘Making 
Sainsbury’s Great Again’ strategy in a variety of 
roles in commercial, strategy and finance, most 
recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery. 
Previously Paul was European Controller at Marks 
and Spencer Group plc and a Director at UBS 
Warburg. Paul is a qualified electronic engineer 
and a Chartered Accountant.
8. Angie Risley
Group HR Director
Angie was appointed Group HR Director and a 
member of the Operating Board in January 2013 
with responsibility for human resources and is 
Chairman of the Great Place to Work Steering 
Committee. She is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Serco Group plc and chairs their Remuneration 
Committee. Angie was most recently Group HR 
Director at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to 
that an Executive Director at Whitbread plc 
with responsibility for HR and Corporate Social 
Responsibility. She was a member of the Low 
Pay Commission.
9. Jon Rudoe
Digital and Technology Director
Jon joined the Operating Board in March 2014 
with responsibility for Digital and the IT function. 
He joined Sainsbury’s in July 2011 as Director of 
Online and in March 2013 he also took on 
responsibility for Digital. Jon joined Sainsbury’s 
from Ocado where he led marketing, user 
experience, trading, own-brand and supply chain. 
Previously, Jon was a management consultant at 
Bain & Company and worked in venture capital. 
10. Sarah Warby
Marketing Director
Sarah joined Sainsbury’s and the Operating Board 
in January 2012 as Marketing Director. She has 
responsibility for all Sainsbury’s marketing 
activity: all-brand communications, in-store, 
loyalty and customer insight. She also has 
responsibility for Customer Service and 
Experience, as well as Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Corporate Affairs. Sarah 
previously held a number of senior positions at 
Heineken and was their UK Marketing Director 
where she was responsible for a number of the 
UK’s most high-profile FMCG brands. Prior to this, 
she was Innovation Director at Heineken where 
she led the combined technical and marketing 
team. Earlier in her career, Sarah worked for several 
marketing agencies and was a graduate employee 
at Unilever PLC. 44
Directors’ Report
Dear Shareholder,
This has been a year of change for the 
Company, particularly with Mike Coupe’s 
succession as CEO in July 2014, and it 
comes at a time when our market is facing 
significant challenges. It has therefore 
been a busy year for the Board which is 
described in detail on the following pages. 
I would especially like to draw shareholders’ attention to the following key 
activities that we have focused on during the year. 
 —  Last year, I described the Board’s succession planning in preparation for 
Justin King’s departure in July 2014. One of our key priorities has been to 
ensure and support a smooth transition to Mike from Justin. Mike has 
made a strong start and he is leading a highly experienced and capable 
management team which has driven the business forward very effectively 
during the year. 
 — Mike and his management team have developed a new strategy designed 
to create value for shareholders at a time of change in our industry. The 
Board’s engagement, challenge and approval of the strategy was a key 
aspect of its year.
 — We have also managed succession planning amongst our Non-Executive 
Directors. In April, we announced that David Keens would join the Board 
and take over as Audit Committee Chairman from Gary Hughes with effect 
from our AGM in July. The Nomination Committee has clear plans for 
future Non-Executive succession which are set out below.
 — The Audit Committee’s report on its key activities is set out on pages  
53 - 57 including a detailed summary of the audit tender process  
that the Committee carried out during the year. This has led to our 
recommendation to shareholders that Ernst & Young should succeed 
PwC as our auditors with effect from the forthcoming AGM. 
 — In this year of change, the Remuneration Committee continues to be 
focused on ensuring that there is a direct link between pay and performance 
in the areas most valued by our shareholders. Mary Harris’ letter to 
shareholders and our Remuneration Report are set out on pages 58 - 73.
As a Board, we take governance very seriously and we regularly discuss and 
review our ways of working and our effectiveness. In March, we carried out a 
comprehensive internal review of our performance which built upon the 
Corporate Governance
conclusions and action plan from our last external Board evaluation by 
Manchester Square Partners in January 2014. This year’s review is described 
in detail below. We are now working through an action plan to build on our 
strong foundations. 
Succession
We take succession at Board and senior management level very seriously and 
we believe that we have a good record of identifying the resourcing needs of 
the business, developing our own people, attracting external talent and 
planning and implementing change. This is reflected in the smooth CEO 
transition from Justin King to Mike Coupe. 
Since I became Chairman in November 2009, we have appointed four new 
Non-Executive Directors who have brought new skills and experience to the 
Board, as well as adding to our Board diversity. As I explained last year, we were 
keen to ensure that we had a stable Non-Executive team to support Mike in 
the year of transition following his appointment and, accordingly, we asked 
Gary Hughes to remain on the Board until this year’s AGM. Gary has been a 
highly effective Board member and Chairman of our Audit Committee for ten 
years and the Board thanks him for his very valuable contribution over this time. 
We announced in April that David Keens would be joining the Board and that 
he would take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee following Gary’s 
departure. I am delighted to welcome him to the Board. His extensive retail 
knowledge gained as Finance Director at Next plc for 24 years will add 
considerably to the Board’s discussions, while his deep, up-to-date financial 
experience will ensure strong leadership of our Audit Committee in the future.
As part of our succession planning, the Nomination Committee has a clear 
plan for John McAdam’s succession. John will reach the ninth anniversary of 
his appointment at the 2015 AGM. The Board believes that it is in 
shareholders’ best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year, 
until the 2016 AGM, ensuring that we benefit from John’s vast experience. 
The Board believes that John continues to make a major contribution to the 
Company, both as a Non-Executive Director and as our Senior Independent 
Director and that he remains independent in every respect, notwithstanding 
the time that he has spent on the Board. In the next 12 months, we expect to 
appoint a Non-Executive Director who will succeed John when he steps down 
from the Board in July 2016. The Nomination Committee will oversee our 
planning for this appointment during the year.
Diversity
We continue to have three women on our Board (33 per cent as at year-end) 
and three on our Operating Board (30 per cent), exceeding the aspirational 
target of the Davies Report that 25 per cent of the Board positions at 
FTSE 100 companies should be filled by women by 2015. Our diversity 
continues to be one of our strengths and is based on the number of women 
who have been appointed on merit throughout the organisation. Our diversity 
has exceeded the Davies Report target and, importantly, it is appropriate for 
Sainsbury’s and its customer base. 
We believe that we have a committed and challenging Board and that our 
strong governance, culture and values hold us in good stead for the future.
David Tyler
Chairman
David Tyler 
Chairman Directors’ Report
45
The role of the Board
The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there were two 
Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors. John McAdam is the 
Senior Independent Director. The Directors’ biographical details are set out 
on page 41. 
The Board’s key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable value for 
shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance management, investor 
relations, risk management, governance and succession planning, each of 
which is described below. The Board has a scheduled forward programme of 
meetings to ensure that we can allocate sufficient time to each of these key 
areas. This enables us to plan Board and Committee meetings appropriately 
and use the Board’s time together most effectively. There is sufficient 
flexibility in the programme for specific items to be added to any particular 
agenda and this ensures that the Board can focus on the key matters relating 
to the business at the appropriate time. 
The Board’s scheduled forward programme includes the following items, 
some of which are considered at each meeting, and others are reviewed 
periodically throughout the year:
There are also a number of informal meetings of the Board, which enable 
all the Directors to spend more time together and to discuss specific areas 
of the business with individual Operating Board members and other 
senior executives. 
Our annual Board evaluation exercise enables us to review whether Board 
meetings are structured with a clear focus on the key issues facing the 
Company, with a full and open debate before major decisions are taken. 
We ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions and decisions 
of each of the four principal Committees, partly by the Chairman of each 
Committee providing a detailed summary to all Directors at the Board 
meeting following the relevant Committee meeting. Minutes of Board and 
Committee meetings are circulated to Directors shortly after those meetings 
take place. The Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers, which it 
reviews each year, and receives a number of in-depth presentations during 
the year.
Strategic leadership
The Board has given particular focus to strategic matters during the year, 
given the fundamental structural change in the sector and the appointment 
of Mike Coupe as Chief Executive. We held a two day Strategy Conference 
in the autumn which all the Board and Operating Board Directors attended. 
This enabled the Board to conduct an in-depth review of the sector, the 
structural and cyclical changes in it, and the latest customer insights. 
The Board evaluated key opportunities and threats, the five year corporate 
plan, including cost savings, capital expenditure and balance sheet 
projections. Our brokers UBS and Morgan Stanley, and our investor relations 
advisers Makinson Cowell, attended for part of the meeting in order to provide 
an external view of the sector. The Board also considered plans for Grocery 
Online, the Digital & Technology strategy and Sainsbury’s Bank. The decisions 
made at the conference led to the approval of the strategy presented by Mike 
in November, which is fully described on pages 6 to 27. 
The Board receives regular updates on progress against the agreed strategy 
and, in July, will agree the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next 
conference. Specific projects are considered at other meetings during the year 
as necessary. During the year, the Board approved the Netto joint venture 
with Dansk Supermarked and received regular updates on the progress of 
Sainsbury’s Bank’s transition programme.
Performance management 
Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets is reviewed at every 
meeting, with particular reference to the detailed Group management 
accounts. The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer comment on the 
market and current trading at each meeting and present comparative data 
and customer insight. 
Risk management
The Board reviews the Company’s principal risks on an annual basis, in 
addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and internal 
controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after each Committee 
meeting (see page 56 for further details). The Board also receives an annual 
update on all matters relating to safety, supported by quarterly updates, 
together with updates on other relevant controls and governance. Any 
specific issues on these and other matters which might affect the Company’s 
reputation are reported to the Board as they occur. 
Investor relations
The Board receives an annual independent survey from Makinson Cowell, 
which reports on the views of major shareholders and analysts, together with 
updates at each Board meeting on the Investor Relations (‘IR’) programme 
and feedback from major shareholders, particularly following each major 
announcement of the Company’s results. See page 47 for further details.
Division of responsibilities 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the 
Board. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda. As set out above, 
we ensure that the Board has sufficient time to allocate to its key areas of 
focus throughout the annual cycle of Board meetings. The Chairman ensures 
effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the 
views of major shareholders. He facilitates the contribution of the Non-
Executive Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures 
constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the 
Company and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board. He creates 
a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the 
successful delivery of results, and allocates decision making and 
responsibilities accordingly. He manages the risk profile in line with the risk 
appetite and categories of risk identified and accepted by the Board. He takes 
a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external 
agencies and in promoting Sainsbury’s.
—  Annual budget
—  Corporate (five year) 
plan
—  CEO Report and 
trading update
—  Financial items
—  Preliminary and 
Interim results
—  Annual Report 
—  Dividend policy and 
recommendations
—  Committee reports
—  Investor Relations
—  Strategic items
—  Safety reports  
(Health & Safety and 
Food)
—  Customer insights
—  HR policy and update
—  P ensions
—  Project updates
—  Treasury and tax 
policy
—  Go v erna nc e 
—  Risk management
—  Board evaluation
—  Public Affairs
Compliance
The following sections explain how the Company applies the main principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). The Board is committed to strong 
governance and, during the year the Company has complied with all the provisions of 
the Code, save as follows.
In last year’s Annual Report, we explained that Gary Hughes would reach the ninth 
anniversary of his appointment at the AGM in July 2014. The Board had concluded that it 
was in shareholders’ best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year until 
the 2015 AGM in order to maintain Board stability as the Company went through the 
important period of transition from Justin King to Mike Coupe. This would also enable 
Gary to play a key role in the audit tender which was planned for later in 2014. The 
Board concluded that Gary was independent in every respect, notwithstanding the 
time he had spent on the Board. 
During the year Gary has continued to make an outstanding contribution and 
to demonstrate his independence. He will stand down at the AGM in July 2015 and 
David Keens will succeed him as Audit Committee Chairman. 46
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance continued
Independence 
The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to 
Board and Committee deliberations. On appointment they confirm that they 
will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to 
election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and 
re-election at each AGM thereafter, after which their appointment may be 
extended for further terms, subject to mutual agreement. All members of the 
Board, other than Gary Hughes, will retire and seek election or re-election by 
shareholders at this year’s AGM in accordance with the Code. 
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his 
appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the Non-Executive 
Directors are considered to be independent. John McAdam reaches the ninth 
anniversary of his appointment at the AGM in July. The Board has concluded 
that it is in shareholders’ best interests for him to remain on the Board for 
another year until the 2016 AGM. The Board is convinced that John, who has 
been our Senior Independent Director since his appointment, continues to 
make an outstanding contribution to the Company. 
The Board has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles 
that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies who may be 
in competition with, or suppliers to, Sainsbury’s. The Board is satisfied that 
the independence of the Directors who have executive or non-executive roles 
with other companies is not compromised and that they all have sufficient 
time available to devote to the Company.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Companies Act 2006 provides that directors must avoid a situation where 
they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 
may conflict, with the company’s interests. Directors of public companies may 
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a company’s 
articles of association permit. The Board has established procedures for the 
disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration 
and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board. In accordance with the Act, 
the Board considered and authorised each Director’s reported potential 
conflicts of interest during the year. Whenever a Director takes on additional 
external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may 
arise and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to fulfil his or 
her role as a Director of the Company. The Board will continue to monitor and 
review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Information 
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed 
on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access 
to relevant information. The quality and supply of information provided to the 
Board is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise. The conclusion 
from this year’s evaluation was that Board processes and documentation 
continue to be thorough and comprehensive.
Directors’ induction and development
We have a programme for meeting Directors’ training and development 
requirements. 
Newly appointed Directors who do not have previous public company 
experience at Board level are provided with detailed training on their role and 
responsibilities. All new Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored 
induction programme including store and depot visits and meetings with 
other members of the Board, members of the Operating Board, senior 
management and external advisers. The induction programme includes a full 
review of corporate responsibility and the Company’s values and culture. This 
programme is ongoing for Non-Executive Directors who often meet members 
of the management team on an individual basis to continue to build their 
knowledge of the Company, or visit stores, depots and suppliers. Subsequent 
training is available on an ongoing basis to meet any particular needs. 
Following his appointment to the Board in April 2015, David Keens’ induction 
programme includes each of these aspects. 
During the year, the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided 
updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors’ duties and 
obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the Company. The Audit 
Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through 
presentations from management and the external auditors. This year this 
included updates on the external audit tender, changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code applicable to the Group for the 2015/16 financial year, 
including the requirement for a viability statement and changes to risk 
management disclosures, Financial Reporting Council guidance on complex 
supplier arrangement disclosures and current and future accounting standard 
changes, such as the new consolidation standards, revenue recognition and 
lease accounting. 
The Board programme includes regular presentations from management and 
informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive Directors’ understanding 
of the business and the sector. During the year, the Board held a meeting at 
Oscar Mayer Ferndale, a major supplier to the Company of ready meals, 
received a presentation on their long standing relationship with Sainsbury’s 
and toured their facility in Erith, Kent. Directors have also visited stores and 
other sites as part of their continuing engagement with the business. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. 
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and 
for governance matters. The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board. There is an agreed 
procedure by which members of the Board may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of 
their duties.
Board evaluation
The 2013/14 annual evaluation was conducted on an external basis when 
Manchester Square Partners (‘MSP’) (who had no other relationship with 
Sainsbury’s) led the review. This was described in detail in last year’s Annual 
Report, including the key themes that emerged. MSP concluded that the 
Board functioned extremely well and in line with first class corporate 
governance, operating as a team with shared values, open dialogue, strong 
levels of trust, respect and collaboration, but also appropriate challenge. 
The Board identified some areas that would remain on the agenda following 
the MSP report, including decision making processes, Board succession and 
Chief Executive transition, engagement with broader management and rising 
talent, and continued focus on our Digital strategy and Sainsbury’s Bank.
The Board agreed that the 2014/15 review should be carried out by the 
Company Secretary, who has previously facilitated a number of internal 
evaluation exercises. The Board is satisfied that these internal reviews follow 
an established process which enables a thorough review with full and open 
participation from all Directors. The key objectives were to determine whether 
progress had continued on the key points raised by MSP , to identify any 
emerging themes in a key year of transition, and to consider whether the 
Board and its Committees were working effectively.
A questionnaire was circulated to all Directors seeking their evaluation of a 
number of matters, including strategy, Board and management succession, 
Board culture, balance and diversity, meetings and processes, investor relations, 
decision making, risk management and Board committees. This was followed 
up in separate discussions with each of the Directors to take their detailed 
feedback on any emerging themes. The Company Secretary then presented 
the principal conclusions to the Board at a meeting convened for that 
purpose, and the Board discussed the key points and agreed certain actions.  Directors’ Report
47
The Board recognised that the last year had seen significant change, 
particularly regarding the appointment of Mike Coupe and the transition  
to a new Operating Board, and the announcement of the new strategy. 
The Board was satisfied that the transition had made good progress and that 
Mike and the management team were well placed to lead the business in this 
period of significant change for the sector. In addition:
—  Given the scale of change in the sector the Board agreed to continue to 
devote more time to reviewing the implementation of the strategy. 
—  The Board considered a number of key decisions that it had made during 
the year and concluded that its decision making processes were robust. 
—  The Board would continue to develop strong links to the broader 
management team. The Board met the Operating Board on several 
occasions during the year, and the combination of formal and informal 
sessions was an effective means of understanding management priorities. 
The Board will be visiting the new Daventry Distribution Centre in June 
2015, and the new Sainsbury’s Bank offices in September 2015, which will 
provide opportunities to engage with the relevant management teams. 
Other opportunities to meet management have also been identified over 
the course of the year.
—  There were clear succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors. This 
would enable an orderly transition from long serving Non-Executives to 
new appointees, including the handover from Gary Hughes to David Keens 
as Audit Committee Chairman. The succession plans regarding John 
McAdam were also clear and fully considered. 
—  The Board continued to operate very effectively with a good balance and 
diversity, and a strong culture reflecting Sainsbury’s values, with Directors 
working well together with a high degree of trust and integrity.
As part of the Board Evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent Director 
reviewed the Chairman’s performance with the other Directors and 
subsequently met him to provide feedback. The Chairman provided feedback 
to each Director on their individual contributions to the Board and, with each 
of them, considered their development priorities. 
Attendance
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and 
Committee meetings. The Board scheduled eight meetings during the year, 
including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional ad hoc meetings 
and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which 
required attention between scheduled meetings. 
The Nomination Committee also received a number of updates, outside of its 
scheduled meetings, relating to the search process for a new Non-Executive 
Director. 
Board
Audit 
Committee
CR&S  
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Matt Brittin 8(8) 5(5) – 2(2) –
Mike Coupe 8(8) – 1(1) – –
Mary Harris 8(8) – 2(2) 2(2) 6(6)
Gary Hughes 8(8) 5(5) – 2(2) –
Justin King 2(2) – 1(1) – –
John McAdam 7(8) – – 2(2) 6(6)
Susan Rice 8(8) 5(5) 2(2)
John Rogers 8(8) – – – –
Jean Tomlin 8(8) – 2(2) 2(2) 6(6)
David Tyler 8(8) – – 2(2) –
The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
As referred to above, there were a number of informal meetings during the 
year when Directors met individual members of the Operating Board to 
receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility. In addition, the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors 
being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the 
Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
Investor relations 
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with 
investors. Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Mike Coupe, 
John Rogers and Duncan Cooper, Head of Investor Relations. The Chairman is 
generally available to shareholders and meets with institutional and other 
large investors; the Senior Independent Director is also available as required. 
The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional 
shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to 
presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the 
Company’s interim and full-year results. They are also invited to participate in 
conference calls following the announcement of the Company’s trading 
statements. The content of these presentations and conference calls are 
webcast and are posted on the Company’s website (www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/
investor-centre) so as to be available to all investors. 
The Board receives feedback at each Board meeting on the views of major 
investors and the Investor Relations (‘IR’) programme. In addition, Makinson 
Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and 
external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional investors and 
sell-side analysts. Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports 
and broker updates from the Company’s IR department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the 
AGM, which this year will be held on 8 July 2015. There will be a display of 
various aspects of the Company’s activities and Mike Coupe will make a 
business presentation. A detailed explanation of each item of special business 
to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will 
be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. All 
resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote. This follows best 
practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those 
of shareholders who attend the meeting. 
Information on matters of particular interest to small shareholders is set out  
on pages 142 to 144 and on the Company’s website  
(www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre). 48
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance continued
Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Operating Board and 
to the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committees. The terms of reference for each Committee are 
available on the website (www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-
governance). 
Operating Board
Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating Board, 
which is chaired by Mike Coupe. The Operating Board held ten scheduled 
meetings during the year and each Director’s responsibilities are set out on 
page 43. It has formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities. 
The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, the 
Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee, the Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability Steering Group, the Diversity Steering Group and the Data 
Governance Committee, each of which has approved terms of reference setting 
out its areas of responsibility. 
Operating Board Committees
Corporate 
Responsibility  
and Sustainability 
Steering Group
Mike Coupe
Data  
Governance 
Committee
Tim Fallowfield
Trading  
Board
Sarah Warby
Investment 
Board
John Rogers
Group Safety 
Committee
Tim Fallowfield
Audit 
Committee
Gary Hughes
Remuneration 
Committee
Mary Harris
PLC Committees
Nomination 
Committee
David Tyler 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee
Jean Tomlin
Operating Board
Mike Coupe
J Sainsbury plc Board
David Tyler 
Diversity 
Steering Group
Angie Risby Directors’ Report
49
Dear Shareholder,
The Nomination Committee ensures that 
the Board has an effective balance of skills 
and experience around the Boardroom 
table. Succession and diversity at Board 
and senior management levels are key 
aspects of our agenda.
The Committee’s priorities over recent years have been:
—  to implement the succession plan for the Chief Executive and ensure a 
smooth transition;
—  to support succession at Operating Board and senior management levels 
so that change can be implemented as smoothly as possible; and
—  to manage the appointment process for a new Non-Executive Director to 
replace Gary Hughes.
The Committee also oversees the Company’s approach to resourcing the 
needs of the business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
Diversity on a broader basis is an important feature of the Committee’s 
agenda and a detailed summary of the Company’s priorities is set out below.
David Tyler
Chairman
Succession planning
The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and senior 
management very seriously. All of the Non-Executive Directors are members 
of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Tyler. Mike Coupe is 
not a member of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings. 
As stated above, our Board evaluations consider the balance, skills and 
diversity of the Board. They also consider succession planning, reviewing 
whether it is working effectively. The evaluation reviews any senior 
appointment processes during the year and identifies priorities for the 
year ahead. 
We believe we have good balance and diversity amongst our Non-Executive 
Directors with several having extensive experience of consumer-facing 
businesses and other highly relevant skills derived from serving in a range of 
major executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers. Each 
of our Non-Executive Directors has been recruited following a robust selection 
process which has been facilitated by Egon Zehnder International, who 
provide search and recruitment services for the Company. Following the 
confirmation last year that Gary Hughes would step down at the 2015 AGM, 
the Nomination Committee instructed Egon Zehnder in connection with the 
recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director who would chair the Audit 
Committee from July 2015. The Committee considered both the balance of 
skills, experience and diversity on the Board, and the specific skills required of 
an audit committee chairman, in determining the types of candidate who 
might best fit the specification of this role. Following a thorough search 
process which involved meetings with the Chairman and other Directors, the 
Board was delighted to be able to appoint David Keens as a Non-Executive 
Director on 29 April 2015. David’s deep financial experience and knowledge 
of the retail sector will be of great benefit to Board discussions. 
Our Non-Executive Directors’ tenure on our Board as at the year-end is as follows:
Board tenure 
Non-Executive Number Percentage
1-2 years 2 29
3-4 years 1 14
4-5 years 1 14
6-7 years 1 14
8-9 years 1 14
9-10 years 1 14
The above table includes the Chairman. Tenure taken from first AGM appointment.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews succession plans for the 
Operating Board, as well as Divisional Director development and talent 
management.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the website at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-governance and set out 
the Committee’s responsibilities. The Committee meets on such occasions 
as are necessary and in 2014/15 held two formal meetings and a number 
of other updates, particularly relating to the search process for a new 
Non-Executive Director. 
Nomination Committee 50
Directors’ Report
Nomination Committee continued
Diversity and inclusion
Our diversity and inclusion vision is to be ‘the most inclusive retailer where 
people love to work and shop’. We will achieve this aspiration by recruiting, 
retaining and developing diverse and talented people and creating an 
inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be and 
where diverse views are listened to. This will enable us to anticipate and 
accommodate the needs of our diverse customers, reflecting the 
communities we serve. 
Four Board Sponsors lead our diversity strategy: Roger Burnley (gender), 
Helen Buck (race and age), Tim Fallowfied (disability and carers) and Sarah 
Warby (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender). Our Board Sponsors, together 
with our Group HR Director, Angie Risley, form our Diversity Steering Group. 
The Group leads our strategy, meeting regularly to govern progress. They are 
also responsible for updating the Board and Operating Board. In addition, 
we have 160 Diversity Champions who support the agenda in every part 
of our organisation. 
We are taking active steps to support talented women to develop their careers 
in management where, like in many organisations, women are under-
represented. Our Inspiring Women programme gives colleagues confidence 
that we support their career aspirations and that gender is no barrier to 
fulfilling their potential. The Davies Report recommended that at least 25 per 
cent of Board members should be women by 2015. We have exceeded this 
target for some years and at year-end, women made up 33 per cent of our 
Board and 30 per cent of our Operating Board. This compares with an average 
of 23.5 per cent women on FTSE 100 boards. A number of our senior women 
also hold non-executive director positions in other organisations. Over the last 
12 months more of our colleagues have signed up to the Inspiring the Future 
campaign, and we now have over 450 colleagues sharing their careers 
experience with schools and colleges.
Colleagues Male Female
Board (at year-end) 9 6 (66%) 3 (33%)
Operating Board 10 7 (70%) 3 (30%)
Divisional Directors and 
Senior Managers
 
204
 
138 (68%)
 
66 (32%)
Company 160,917 71,711 (45%) 89,206 (55%)
We are Champion members of Race for Opportunity. 14 per cent of the 
population of England and Wales and 11 per cent of the UK workforce is from 
a BAME (Black Asian Ethnic Minority) background. This compares with 14 per 
cent of all Sainsbury’s colleagues. We are working to increase the 
representation of BAME colleagues at manager grades by encouraging 
talented colleagues to progress within the business; for example, through our 
Inspiring Diverse T alent events and BAME colleagues participating both in 
Race for Opportunity’s cross-organisational mentoring circles and our own 
internal mentoring networks. 
We aspire to take a leadership approach to disability, commensurate with our 
Paralympic commitment to create a legacy of greater inclusion for people 
with disabilities. We sit on the Paralympic Legacy Advisory Group and take an 
active role in the Government’s Disability Confident campaign. We are Partner 
members of the Business Disability Forum. In May 2014, all of our 
supermarkets held a focus day on disability, rolling out our new brand 
standards which will improve the service our disabled customers receive in 
store, and by October 2014 all supermarket stores were in receipt of our 
exclusively designed disabled child trolley. Our ‘You Can’ programme 
continues to be successful and has attracted over 24,000 people who have 
faced barriers into work. 
We are one of few FTSE 100 companies with a carer’s policy and have worked 
with Carers UK for 15 years. Last year, over 1,000 Sainsbury’s stores across 
the country hosted events for local support and community groups. We 
sponsored the Carers Rights Day Caring for Someone booklet again this year, 
and the booklet was made available to our colleagues as well as to other 
organisations. We also invested in licences of Carers UK’s Jointly App for all 
our colleagues who are juggling work with caring responsibilities. We are 
proud to Chair the Retail Group of the Prime Minister’s Dementia Challenge.
We are members of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme. 2014 saw 
us launch our LGBTA (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies) colleague 
network, with nominated co-chairs, and we held three successful networking 
events in the year. 2014 also saw our first official participation in a Pride 
event (Brighton Pride).  Directors’ Report
51
As Chairman of the Board’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee, I oversee the governance of our corporate responsibility activities 
and the sustainability targets set out in our 20x20 Sustainability Plan. 
Sainsbury’s is proud to have a Board level corporate responsibility committee, 
which has been in place since 2007, overseeing our five corporate values: 
Best for food and health, Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, 
Making a positive difference to our community and A great place to work. 
As we approach the half-way point of our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, work is 
underway to review these commitments to ensure they remain aligned to our 
new strategy.
Since 2007, Sainsbury’s has continued to innovate in the delivery of our 
corporate responsibility and sustainability activities. During 2014/15 our store 
in Cannock became the first retail outlet in the UK to be solely powered 
by food waste, coming off the National Grid. In another first for the business, 
our store in Portishead runs fridges powered by ‘green’ gas, created using 
waste from sugar beet suppliers. 
Success in a number of industry benchmarks has added credibility to our 
wide range of corporate responsibility activities. During the year, Sainsbury’s 
was the only UK company to be ranked as a Sustainability Leader in the ‘Food 
and Staples Retailing’ category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (‘DJSI’). 
The DJSI is the leading global sustainability benchmark and Sainsbury’s is 
one of the few companies that has been a member of the DJSI since its 
inception in 1999. This year we outperformed 92 per cent of our industry 
category and obtained the highest score for environmental performance 
worldwide. Sainsbury’s also received our highest ever performance score in 
the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (‘CDP’) annual survey. For the first time we 
were awarded a position in the CDP’s Climate Performance Leadership Index 
for our actions to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the business risks of 
climate change. 
These achievements have been delivered by experts working throughout 
the business, supported by strong governance. The Committee is supported 
by a Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Steering Group, chaired by 
Mike Coupe, as well as five Value Steering Groups, chaired by members of 
the Operating Board. These Value Steering Groups provide updates to the 
Committee at each of our meetings, with one value area providing an in-depth 
review of its activities. In the year, I have also hosted three events for external 
stakeholders covering pertinent topics within Sourcing with integrity, Respect 
for our environment and Making a positive difference to our community. 
Further information about our approach can be found at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/responsibility.
  
Jean Tomlin
Chairman, Corporate Responsibility  
and Sustainability Committee
Dear Shareholder,
Throughout its 146-year history, 
Sainsbury’s has looked to lead the way 
in corporate responsibility. Our values  
are embedded in our new strategy and  
are integral to our vision to be the 
most trusted retailer where people love 
to work and shop. 
Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability Committee
Jean Tomlin 
Chairman, Corporate 
Responsibility and  
Sustainability Committee 52
Directors’ Report
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee continued
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee
Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee is chaired by 
Jean Tomlin, Mary Harris is a member of the Committee and during the year 
Mike Coupe replaced Justin King as a Committee member. David Tyler 
attends each meeting. It met twice during the year to oversee the governance 
of each of our five values as well as our 20x20 Sustainability Plan.
These formal Committee meetings are supported by Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability (‘CR&S’) stakeholder meetings that are hosted by Jean 
Tomlin and Mike Coupe. Each meeting is based around one of our five values 
and key external stakeholders are invited to attend including representatives 
from Government, industry, non-governmental organisations and key 
suppliers to our business. During the year three such meetings were held, 
relating to the value areas of Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our 
environment and Making a positive difference to our community. Meetings 
for our Best for food and health and A great place to work value areas are 
already scheduled for the 2015/16 financial year. 
The terms of reference of the Committee are available at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-governance.
This year’s 20x20 Sustainability Plan update will be published in 
December 2015.
Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan
We have sought throughout our 146-year history to lead the way in corporate 
responsibility and sustainability. Examples of our contribution over the past 
decade include supporting British farming; transforming the market for fairly 
traded products and sustainable seafood; improving animal welfare; and 
championing food donation partnerships.
With our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we formalised our activities around our 
values in light of the new and changing issues which today’s world faces.
In developing the plan, we undertook a detailed auditing and materiality 
process. Since its launch in 2011, we have continued to listen to our 
customers, suppliers and opinion formers to make sure we have the most 
relevant and effective agenda, leverage the knowledge and experience 
of experts and remain at the forefront of sustainability between now 
and 2020. The 2015/16 financial year marks the half-way point of our 
20x20 Sustainability Plan and we are currently reviewing our commitments 
to ensure they remain aligned with our new business strategy. With the 
clarity of purpose that the 20x20 Sustainability Plan brings, we are focused 
on its delivery, while also ensuring we continue to look beyond 2020.
Further information about our approach can be found at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/responsibility, with quarterly updates also given as 
part of our regular trading statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We have measured our greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) footprint since 2005 and set 
ourselves a challenging target to reduce our emissions by 30 per cent by 2020, 
compared with our 2005 baseline (and 65 per cent relative to our sales floor 
area). Information on our initiatives to reduce our GHG footprint can be found at
 www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/responsibility.
GHG emissions (tCO
2
e)
Emission source 2012/13 2013/14* 2014/15
Combustion of fuel and operation  
 of facilities (‘Scope 1’)
 
722,835
 
635,191
 
571,673
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
 purchased for own use (‘Scope 2’)
 
771,380
 
737,075
 
794,429
Total 1,494,215 1,372,266 1,366,102
Intensity measurement  
 (tCO
2
e/’000 sq ft)
 
70.27
 
61.93
 
59.87
*  The GHG emissions reported for 2013/14 differ from those reported in the 2014 Annual Report 
because they have been adjusted to correct for previously estimated data. Due to the short time 
between financial year-end and Annual Report publication, it was necessary to estimate some gas 
and electricity consumption data. 
In 2014/15, our total emissions decreased by almost half a per cent. This was 
in part driven by installing natural refrigerant gases in 31 stores during the year.
 
Emissions from electricity use (Scope 2) reported for 2014/15 increased by 
nearly eight per cent, affected by a change in the National Grid average 
carbon conversion factor set by the Department for Environment, Food & 
Rural Affairs. However, in 2014/15 our electricity consumption actually 
reduced by three per cent year-on-year as a result of our investment in 
energy reduction initiatives, such as the installation of LED lighting. Overall, 
our energy reduction activities have decreased electricity use by nearly 
eight per cent since 2005/06 despite a 50 per cent increase in sales area.
Intensity ratio
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to the growth of our 
business, we report an emissions intensity measurement, calculated using 
sales area (’000 sq ft). Using this measure, our emissions intensity decreased 
by three per cent in 2014/15 to just under 60 tCO
2
e/’000 sq ft.
 
Methodology
We have reported for the 2014/15 financial year on all of the emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013. We have calculated and reported our emissions in 
line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) and emission factors from the Government’s GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014. The boundaries of the GHG inventory 
are defined using the operational control approach. In general, the emissions 
reported are the same as those which would be reported based on a financial 
control boundary. Due to the short time between financial year-end and 
report publication, it was necessary to estimate some gas and electricity 
consumption data. Gas and electricity emission calculations could be subject 
to minor change.
CR&S Steering Group
Established 2001,  
meets twice annually
Mike Coupe 
Chairman, Chief Executive 
Best for food  
and health
Sarah Warby 
Marketing Director
Sourcing with integrity
Paul Mills-Hicks 
Food Commercial Director
Respect for our  
environment
John Rogers 
Chief Financial Officer
Making a positive  
difference to our  
community
Roger Burnley 
Retail and Operations Director
A great place to work
Angie Risley 
Group HR Director
J Sainsbury  
plc Board
David Tyler  
Chairman
Corporate 
Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Committee
Established January 2007,  
meets twice annually
Jean Tomlin, Chairman
Non-Executive Director
Health  
Steering  
Group
Product  
Forum
Environment 
Steering  
Group
Community 
Steering  
Group
A Great  
Place To Work 
Steering  
Group Directors’ Report
53
We have also continued to monitor the transition, financial performance and 
governance of Sainsbury’s Bank following the completion of our full 
acquisition of the Bank in January 2014. We receive updates at every meeting 
on the key agenda items discussed at the Bank’s Audit Committee and Risk 
Committee and the Chairmen of both Committees, and the Bank’s auditors, 
have attended meetings of the Committee during the year.
From an accounting and reporting perspective the significant issues 
considered in detail by the Committee are set out on page 55. 
In December 2014, the FRC issued a press notice calling on boards of retailers, 
suppliers and other businesses to provide investors with sufficient 
information on their accounting policies, judgements and estimates arising 
from their complex supplier arrangements. The Committee continues to 
review detailed papers from management on the Group’s supplier income 
policies, accounting and analysis of the quantitative impact, by supplier 
income type, on the Group’s results, including the value and volume of 
transactions. In light of the guidance, we have included further disclosure on 
supplier income within our cost of sales accounting policies, judgements and 
estimates and significant reporting issues considered by the Committee. We 
are satisfied that the additional disclosures provide users of the accounts with 
enough clear and relevant information to be able to evaluate the impact 
supplier income has on the Company’s performance and financial position.
The Committee has always ensured that the identification and management 
of all significant risks is embedded across all areas of the business, with 
continuous and effective oversight from the Operating Board. We are satisfied 
that the business has maintained robust risk management and internal 
controls, supported by strong overall governance processes, and that 
management continues to instil a strong risk management culture across the 
business.
The Company’s principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 28 to 30. 
We have reviewed these in detail and are comfortable that the business has 
addressed them appropriately within its ongoing operating model and priorities. 
This is my last report to shareholders as Audit Committee chairman, a role 
that I have held for ten years. I am pleased to be handing over to David 
Keens, and I am sure that his recent and relevant financial experience and his 
deep understanding of retail businesses will provide strong leadership  
of the Committee.
Gary Hughes
Chairman, Audit Committee
Audit Committee
Dear Shareholder,
As explained in last year’s Audit Committee 
report, a key aspect of the Committee’s 
work during the year was to oversee a 
formal and comprehensive tender process 
for the external auditor appointment. 
In January 2015, following the completion of the tender process, the Board 
announced that it intended to recommend to shareholders, for approval 
at the 2015 AGM, the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Group’s auditor 
for the 52 weeks ending 12 March 2016. The Group’s current auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’), has continued in the role and has 
undertaken the audit of the Group’s consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks 
ended 14 March 2015. On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank 
PwC, and specifically the Sainsbury’s audit partners, for their significant 
contribution as the Group’s auditor over many years. Going forward we 
expect an orderly transition and look forward to working with Ernst & Young 
into the future. 
Our audit tender process is described in more detail in the following pages, 
together with the Committee’s other principal activities during the year. In 
addition to our regular review of risk management and internal controls, we 
have continued to focus on data governance across the organisation, as a 
major breach of information security could have a material and significant 
impact on the business and its reputation. The Committee has received 
regular presentations on data governance from throughout the business, 
and will continue to do so. 
Gary Hughes 
Chairman,  
Audit Committee 54
Directors’ Report
Audit Committee continued
Committee membership
The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes, with Susan Rice and Matt 
Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has recent and 
relevant financial experience. The Chairman, Mike Coupe, John Rogers, 
Susannah Hall (Director of Internal Audit), other senior members of the 
Finance Division and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee 
meetings. Tim Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
David Keens was appointed to the Board on 29 April 2015 as a Non-Executive 
Director. He will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee when Gary 
Hughes steps down as a Director at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the website at  
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-governance.
Activities during the year
During the year, the Committee has considered a number of matters under 
the general headings below. It monitored the integrity of the financial 
statements and any formal announcements relating to the Company’s 
financial performance and reviewed any significant financial judgements 
contained in them. Within the accounting update it considered the progress 
of the external audit tender, supplier income accounting and proposed 
disclosure, provisions made by the Company, dilapidations of properties and 
land, impairments, and pensions. In addition, the Committee regularly 
reviewed the Company’s funding and liquidity position and has considered 
its impact on the Company’s financial and operational capabilities. The 
Committee’s detailed review of the year-end position assisted the Board in 
making the going concern statement set out on page 80.
The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit which 
reflects the Company’s reporting cycle:
Standard items
September Accounting and tax update
PwC performance review
Data governance and security update
Internal controls framework and fraud update 
Risk management update
Sainsbury’s Bank report
Sainsbury’s Bank audit committee overview
Sainsbury’s Bank risk management report
PwC audit plan, audit strategy and fees
Terms of reference update
Annual review and benchmarking of the Finance Division
Non-audit fees
Internal Audit Half Year Plan
November Half-year accounting and tax update, including going 
concern review 
PwC Interim review report 
Draft Interim Statement 
Litigation report
Internal controls framework and fraud update 
Sainsbury’s Bank report
Sainsbury’s Bank audit committee overview
Sainsbury’s Bank risk management report
Non-audit services and fees
March Accounting and tax update
Litigation report
Data governance update
Internal controls framework and fraud update 
Internal Audit Plan
Risk management update
Principal risks and uncertainties
PwC internal financial controls report
PwC report on auditor independence
Non-audit services and fees
Sainsbury’s Bank report
Sainsbury’s Bank audit committee overview
Sainsbury’s Bank risk management report
April Year-end accounting and tax update, including going 
concern review
Litigation report 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
Non-audit services and fees
PwC year-end report and required communications
External auditors’ appointment
Internal controls framework and fraud update 
Sainsbury’s Bank report
Sainsbury’s Bank audit committee overview
The Committee considered the key matters related to the progress of the Bank’s 
transition following acquisition. To enable the Committee to receive assurance, 
it receives updates on the key agenda items discussed at the Bank’s Audit 
Committee and on all important operating and regulatory matters, including 
its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes, 
at every meeting. Representatives from the Bank Audit Committee and the 
Bank Risk Committee now attend meetings of the Committee at least twice 
a year. 
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report on the internal controls 
framework and the Internal Audit department’s activities. This year, it 
received information on major change projects, data security, business 
continuity planning and details of any invocation of the business continuity 
management team. The Committee reviews the quarterly results of the store 
safe and legal audits to ensure that appropriate standards are being 
maintained. The Committee has also continued to review data governance 
across the organisation and has received regular presentations and updates.
The Committee also reviews:
—  the effectiveness of the Company’s financial controls and the systems of 
internal control by approving the Internal Audit plans twice yearly, 
reviewing the findings quarterly and by reviewing the scope of work and 
reports of the external auditors. The detailed actions for resolution of any 
identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the Committee through to 
completion; and
—  the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process and 
corporate and divisional risk maps and registers twice yearly. These form 
an element of the Internal Audit planning process.
Full descriptions of the risk management and internal controls processes are 
set out below. 
The Company’s ‘whistleblowing’ procedures ensure that arrangements are in 
place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible 
improprieties on a confidential basis. All issues raised have been investigated 
and appropriate actions taken. Any significant issues are highlighted to the 
Audit Committee.
The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which 
convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case management and 
ensure appropriate actions are taken. The Audit Committee receives a fraud 
update at each meeting. 
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of the Code is for the Board to 
confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable (see page 76). To enable the Board to make 
this declaration, a formal process is embedded in the year-end review process 
to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has access to all relevant 
information and, in particular, management’s papers on significant issues 
faced by the business. The Committee receives a paper from management 
detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements, highlighting areas where it has met the requirements 
of the Code. The Committee, and all other Board members, also receive drafts 
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient time to facilitate 
their review and enable them to challenge the disclosures where necessary. 
In addition, the Group’s external auditors review the consistency between the 
narrative reporting of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.  Directors’ Report
55
Financial statements and significant issues
An accounting and tax paper is prepared by management and presented to 
the Audit Committee four times a year, which provides detail on the main 
financial reporting judgements and issues. Specific accounting papers have 
also been prepared when considered necessary. 
Significant financial and reporting issues considered in the year, in no 
particular order, were as follows:
Significant financial 
and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed
Impairment 
of financial 
and non-
financial 
assets
As disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, a review 
for impairment triggers is performed at each reporting date 
by considering if any current or future events suggest the 
recoverable value of certain assets may be less than their 
carrying value. The impact of adapting to our changing 
customer needs and analysis of unprofitable and marginally 
profitable trading stores were identified as trigger events 
prior to the interim results reporting date. This resulted in the 
estimation of the recoverable amount of all impacted assets 
to determine the extent of any impairment loss. The 
Committee reviewed management’s assessment of 
recoverable value and the assumptions and judgements 
made. As a result, a £628 million non-cash impairment and 
onerous contract charge has been recognised during the year 
to write down the value of certain store pipeline and trading 
store assets, as disclosed in note 3.
Pensions 
accounting
The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions 
used in arriving at a valuation for the defined benefit pension 
scheme for both half-year and year-end reporting. 
The Committee reviewed the key assumptions driving the 
movement in the retirement benefit funded obligations 
including inflation, discount and mortality rates. The 
assumptions are also benchmarked to ensure they are 
reasonable.
Items 
excluded 
from 
underlying 
results
The Committee is satisfied that the Group’s definition of items 
excluded from underlying results remains clear and further 
disclosure is included where appropriate. The definition remains 
consistent with the prior year and in the current year the 
Committee has been involved in assessing the appropriateness 
of including impairment, onerous lease and contract charges 
and restructuring within this disclosure, on the basis that they 
are one-off material items not relating to the Group’s ongoing 
activities. Please refer to note 3 for further detail.
Sainsbury’s 
Bank 
reporting
The Committee receives updates on the key agenda items 
discussed at the Bank’s Audit Committee and Board Risk 
Committee including accounting judgements and estimates 
and on all important operating and regulatory matters 
including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk 
management processes. Representatives from the Bank 
Audit Committee and the Bank Board Risk Committee 
attend meetings of the Committee at least twice a year. 
Representatives from the Internal Audit team attend as 
requested.
During the year the accounting judgements and estimates 
reviewed by the Committee have included impairment 
assessments of the loans and advances due from Sainsbury’s 
Bank customers, progress on the Bank transition, tax 
judgements and provisions.
Supplier 
income
Supplier income has historically been discussed and 
during the current year, the Committee reviewed the latest 
management supplier income paper. This summarised the 
types of supplier income, how each is accounted for, the key 
judgements and estimates involved in recognition and how 
these are managed by the business to ensure appropriate 
accounting can be applied. The majority of supplier income 
is calculated based on an agreed discount per individual unit 
sale, resulting in a mechanical process with no judgement 
and estimation. 
Significant financial 
and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed
Supplier 
income
(continued)
Where consideration is required for the time period to 
recognise the supplier income over, or thresholds are required 
to be met in order to recognise the income, the judgement 
and estimation increases. The Committee reviewed 
management’s paper and is comfortable with the controls in 
place to manage this judgement and estimation. 
As a result of the increased focus on supplier income, 
additional disclosures have been included in the cost of sales 
accounting policy and the judgements and estimates section 
of note 2 on page 94, including detailed explanations of the 
types of supplier income Sainsbury’s receives.
We reviewed the different and varied supplier income disclosures 
given by the other companies to date. We concluded not to 
disclose the quantum of supplier income within the Group 
income statement as this information is commercially sensitive. 
We concluded not to disclose the quantum of supplier income 
within the balance sheet as the amounts are considered to be 
not significant in the context of the balance sheet as a whole 
and give no further understanding or comparability to other 
companies for the reader of the financial statements.
The Committee remains satisfied that reasonable judgements have been 
made by management and adequate disclosures provided where appropriate.
Internal Audit
The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit department’s 
resources, budget, work programme, results and management’s 
implementation of its recommendations. 
The Director of Internal Audit, Susannah Hall, reports to the Committee 
Chairman and has direct access to all members of the Committee and the 
Chairman. She is given the opportunity after each meeting to meet with the 
Committee separately without management being present. She has regular 
meetings with all Committee members. The purpose, authority and 
responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter. 
The Committee reviews the Charter annually. 
External Audit
The Committee reviewed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s (‘PwC’) overall work 
plan, and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement. It 
considered in detail the results of the audit, PwC performance and 
independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process. 
External Audit tender
Last year, we advised that PwC had been the Company’s auditors since 1995. 
In line with the changes made to the Code in 2012, which recommended that 
the external audit is put out to tender at least every ten years, we advised that 
an external tender would commence after the AGM, for the 2015/16 audit. 
PwC were not invited to participate in the audit tender.
The tender process, initiated in July 2014, involved an audit tender team led 
by Gary Hughes, and comprising David Tyler (Chairman), John Rogers (Chief 
Financial Officer) and Ed Barker (Director of Group Finance), as well as support 
from representatives of the Finance, IT , Procurement, Legal and Corporate 
Secretarial teams. Three firms participated in the process which included an 
Expression of Interest, Request for Proposal (RFP) and a presentation followed by 
a questions and answers session. The firms were given the opportunity to meet 
with management across the business enabling a detailed proposal document 
to be prepared by each firm incorporating an audit and transition plan, team 
structure, approach to working with management, independence assessment 
and details of the firm’s credentials, team experience and cost proposals. 
Detailed evaluation criteria and a scoring matrix were used to assist the 
Committee in making its decision, which included input from all 
management meetings. Following the conclusion of the formal tender  
process in January, the Board announced its intention to recommend to 
shareholders, for approval at the 2015 AGM, the appointment of Ernst & 
Young LLP as the Group’s auditor for the 52 weeks ending 12 March 2016.
Independence
In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has overseen the 
Company’s policy which restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to 
non-audit services. The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by PwC  56
Directors’ Report
Audit Committee continued
during 2014/15 was audit related assurance services such as the interim review 
and the provision of accounting advice, which totalled £0.1 million. In addition, 
PwC earned fees for other non-audit work of £0.1 million. The audit fee for the 
year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries totalled £1.0 million. 
The Committee remains satisfied with PwC’s independence and their overall 
challenge to management. Ernst & Young have confirmed their independence 
in preparation for their appointment as Auditors following the 2015 AGM.
The policy was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards No. 5 – Non Audit Services. The policy is 
designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an 
impact on the external auditors’ independence and objectivity. It identifies 
certain types of engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake, 
including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of 
accounting estimates for the financial statements. It also requires that 
individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken 
with appropriate authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee. 
The policy also recognises that there are some types of work, such as 
accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the Company’s 
business is advantageous. The policy is designed to ensure that the Auditor is 
only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the 
most suitable supplier of the service. The Committee receives a report at each 
meeting on the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of 
non-audit fees. In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit 
fee then all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the 
Committee Chairman. 
Sainsbury’s Bank
Sainsbury’s Bank is a subsidiary of the Company which has an independent 
board responsible for setting the Bank’s strategy, risk appetite and annual 
business plan as well as the day-to-day management of the business. The 
Board of the Bank has an independent Chairman and a majority of 
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Bank will continue to provide to each Audit Committee an update on 
performance and the chairs of the Bank’s Audit Committee and Risk 
Committee will present to the Audit Committee at least twice a year. There is 
alignment between the Sainsbury’s Internal Audit function and their 
colleagues within Sainsbury’s Bank equivalent team. 
Grocery Supply Code of Practice 
In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice (‘GSCOP’) was 
implemented following the recommendation of the Competition 
Commission. Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code 
Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers 
and the relevant retailer. Sainsbury’s appointed the Director of Internal Audit 
as its Code Compliance Officer.
GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an annual 
compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator which has been approved 
by the Chair of the Audit Committee. Furthermore, a summary of the compliance 
report must be included in our Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Summary Annual Compliance Report
Sainsbury’s has invested significant time and resource in providing 
comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP 
which is reinforced by online knowledge testing. Sainsbury’s has also dedicated 
internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and 
guidance. The Trading Division, in consultation with the Legal Services Team 
and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to assess the adequacy of policies 
and procedures in place to support GSCOP awareness and compliance.
A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the 
reporting period, which were dealt with within the Trading Division using our 
standard internal escalation procedure. Two of these alleged breaches were 
referred to the Code Compliance Officer. 
Risk management and internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of 
internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness. Certain of these 
responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined 
below. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve the Company’s business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been 
in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, and accord with the Turnbull guidance and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any identified 
weaknesses has been, or is being, taken.
Risk management
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk management 
system is designed to identify key risks and to provide assurance that these risks 
are fully understood and managed. The effectiveness of the process is reviewed 
twice a year by the Audit Committee. The Board carries out an annual review of 
the significant risks facing the business, which includes reviewing risk appetite. 
The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which is 
reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed with 
the Board. The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the 
business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross 
level (before consideration of mitigating controls) and net level (after 
consideration of mitigating controls). This gives the Board the opportunity to 
review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept. The register 
also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating controls. 
Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level deemed 
acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and progress 
on implementation of these actions is monitored. 
The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level and 
through the review of the risk registers of each of the operating divisions of 
the business:
—  the divisional operating management teams are responsible for managing 
the risks to their business objectives and for identification and 
implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are 
appropriately identified, evaluated and managed;
—  this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops 
held by the divisional management and facilitated by Internal Audit. Each 
divisional management team produces and maintains a divisional key risk 
register. The likelihood and impact of each key risk is evaluated, 
management’s risk appetite is discussed and any further actions deemed 
necessary to mitigate the risk are identified. In addition, the risks and the 
robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional 
management as part of their normal business activities;
—  management certify annually that they are responsible for managing 
their business objectives and that the internal controls are such that they 
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas 
of responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed;
—  the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the divisional risk 
process and then updates the overall corporate risk register as appropriate;
—  game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshops are held annually to 
focus on external and unknown risks. Key themes and outputs from these 
are reviewed by the Operating Board and the potential impact on key risks 
is discussed;
—  the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk based 
plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period; 
—  Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and the 
Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk 
management process; and
—  the Board reviews the risk process and corporate risks in May and 
approves the Company’s Principal Risks and Uncertainties (as set out on 
pages 28 to 30). Directors’ Report
57
Risk Management Process
January/
February
March
May
June
July
August
September
Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee plc Board Internal Audit
Horizon Scanning  
and Game-Changer  
Risk Workshops
focus on  
external and  
unknown risks
Divisional Risk  
Workshops 
assess key risks  
to their business  
objectives
Operating  
Board Annual  
Risk Workshop
assessment of key 
corporate risks 
and risk appetite 
discussion
Operating Board
Risk Review
review/challenge 
divisional risk  
output and update 
corporate risk register  
as appropriate
Audit  
Committee  
review corporate  
and divisional  
risks
Internal Audit  
risk-based
half-year plan
Divisional Risk  
Workshops 
assess key risks  
to their business  
objectives
Operating Board
Risk Review
review/challenge 
divisional risk 
output and update 
corporate  
risk register as  
appropriate
1
1
2
2
3
Output
Divisional risk  
maps and registers
1 Output
Corporate risk  
map and register
2 Output
Principal Risk and Uncertainties  
(reflecting key corporate risks)
3 Output
The risk management process feeds into the 
Company strategy, plan and objectives
Internal controls
The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those 
relating to financial reporting processes (including the preparation of the 
consolidated Group accounts), operational and compliance controls and those 
relating to risk management processes. It also includes the controls over 
Sainsbury’s interests in joint ventures.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls 
systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made. 
The processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows:
—  discussion and approval by the Board of the Company’s strategy, plans 
and objectives, and the risks to achieving them;
—  review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including 
those for both revenue and capital expenditure;
—  regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and 
mitigating controls and actions;
—  regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope 
and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the 
implementation of their recommendations;
—  regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the 
work of the external auditors and of any significant issues arising; 
—  regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels 
of delegated authority; and
—  regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material 
fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or 
suppliers and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
2
plc Board
review of risk  
process, corporate  
risks and sign-off  
of Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties
Management
annual certification  
that risks in their  
areas of responsibility  
are identified,  
evaluated and  
managed
Internal Audit  
risk-based
half-year plan
Audit Committee  
review corporate  
and divisional risks  
and sign-off  
Principal Risks 
and Uncertainties
4
4
4 58
Directors’ Report
Remuneration for 2015/16
The overall structure of the remuneration package will remain unchanged 
and we will, therefore, continue to operate within the policy approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Salaries for the Executive Directors increased 
in March 2015 by 1.75 per cent, which is in line with the percentage salary 
increases for other central colleagues and below the three per cent for store 
colleagues awarded in September 2014. There are no changes proposed to 
the maximum opportunities under the incentive plans.
Future Builder – performance measures and targets for 
2015 awards
In November 2014, we announced an updated strategy to navigate the 
challenging retail environment. Following this, the Committee undertook a 
review of our Future Builder plan to ensure alignment with our strategy. 
During the year, we actively consulted with our top 15 shareholders and the 
main shareholder bodies regarding our long-term incentive arrangement. 
The Committee values the views of our shareholders, and I would like to take 
the opportunity to thank all those who took part in the consultation process. 
Following the review, and consistent with the remuneration policy approved 
last year, the Committee approved changes to the performance conditions for 
the 2015 Future Builder. This award shall be based on four equally weighted 
financial metrics with target ranges that reflect the new challenging 
environment:
 — Return on capital employed has been retained as a measure;
 — Earnings per share has been introduced as a new measure;
 — The cash flow measure has been expanded to take into account capital 
expenditure – this reflects the reduced capital expenditure targets in our 
strategy; and
 — A strategic cost savings measure has been introduced, which explicitly 
focuses on the structural cost savings identified as one of our key strategic 
targets over the next few years. 
The target ranges applying to each measure for awards to be made in 
2015 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. The Committee’s 
approach was to set the top of the range at a level which far exceeds market 
expectations and could be expected in principle to result in a re-rating of 
the share price. 
The Committee also wanted to ensure the targets are appropriately 
motivating to the broader management team, as circa 200 senior colleagues 
participate in this arrangement. We have an experienced management team 
with deep sector experience who will provide the necessary leadership and 
execution skills to succeed in this market and differentiate ourselves against 
our peers. It is critical this team value their incentives and view targets as 
both challenging and yet achievable in the current environment.
Annual Statement from the  
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
As the grocery retail sector continues to go 
through major structural change, it is vital 
that our remuneration policy reflects both 
the environment in which we are operating 
and the Company’s updated strategy. 
This has been a challenging year for the grocery retail sector. The heightened 
competitive environment, food price deflation and price investments have 
impacted our financial performance as well as the sector overall. Within this 
difficult context, we have outperformed our main supermarket peers in terms 
of profit and made good progress on our strategic goals. 
Remuneration for 2014/15
Our Executive Directors have remained committed to the management of our 
business in the very difficult environment of the UK grocery retail industry. 
Despite these efforts, the level of payments from our incentive plans in 
2014/15 reflect the financial outcomes during the year and the stretching 
targets we set. 
As a result, pay for Executive Directors is significantly lower in 2014/15 than 
in 2013/14. This is predominantly as a result of no payments being made 
under either the annual bonus or Future Builder (our long-term incentive 
plan) which was due to vest in May 2015. However, given the progress made 
on our new strategy and key aspects of our relative performance, the 
Deferred Share Award (‘DSA’) outcome for the year was 52 per cent of the 
maximum (compared with 80 per cent last year).
Mary Harris 
Chairman, Remuneration 
Committee Directors’ Report
59
Recovery provisions – introduction of clawback
In line with best practice, the Committee has also taken the opportunity to 
strengthen the recovery provisions applicable to our incentive plans. The 
existing recovery provision that applies to the Future Builder will be extended 
to the Deferred Share Award. In addition, a clawback provision has been 
introduced for future incentive awards, which enables incentive payments to 
be reclaimed in certain scenarios. 
Looking ahead to 2016
The Long-Term Incentive Plan, under which the Future Builder awards are 
currently granted, was approved by shareholders in 2006 and will expire in 
July 2016. During 2015/16, the Committee will give further consideration to 
how any replacement plan should be structured with a view to presenting 
this to shareholders for approval at next year’s AGM. We will look to 
appropriately consult with shareholders regarding any new arrangements 
later in the year.
Structure of report and AGM
Following this letter, we have included a two-page executive summary, 
which details pay and performance for 2014/15 and an overview of how 
remuneration arrangements will be operated for 2015/16. We hope this 
section provides shareholders with a useful overview of the key features of 
our remuneration arrangements. This is followed by the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. For ease of reference, at the back of this report we have also 
included the policy tables which formed part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. The full policy can be 
found in our 2014 Annual Report on our website at: http://www.j-sainsbury.
co.uk/investor-centre/reports/.
In line with the regulations, this Directors’ Remuneration Report, excluding 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM 
on 8 July 2015. 
You can see from this report that the Remuneration Committee remains 
committed to being focused on pay for performance and aligning rewards of 
the senior leadership team with the experience of long-term shareholders, 
while staying true to our Company values. We look forward to receiving your 
support for this report at the AGM. 
Mary Harris
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
60
Summary of remuneration for 2014/15 –  
alignment between performance and pay
How did we perform in 2014/15?
Full details of our performance against our strategic and financial key performance indicators are set out on pages 24 to 27.
The impact on our performance-related pay is set out below. 
2014/15 payout 2013/14 payout
Annual bonus — Profit and sales targets not met 0% of max 60% of max
Deferred Share Award — T argets partially met
 — Strong relative performance against listed peers
 — New strategy launched and progressed 
 — Many elements of financial performance and returns to shareholders 
below targeted levels
52% of max 80% of max
LTIP/Future Builder — Within performance vesting range
 — But earnings underpin not achieved
0% of max 40% of max
How much were Executive Directors paid in 2014/15?
Mike Coupe
£000
John Rogers
£000
2014/15
1
2013/14 2014/15 2013/14
Fixed pay Salary 801 587 600 520
Benefits 17 18 17 18
 Pension 231 147 150 112
Performance-related pay Annual bonus – 318 – 282
Deferred Share Award 458 423 281 374
LTIP/Future Builder – 495 – 390
Total pay 1,507 1,988 1,048 1,696
1 Mike was appointed Chief Executive on 9 July 2014 on a base salary of £900,000; previously he was the Group Commercial Director. The 2014/15 figures relate to the whole of the 2014/15 financial year. Directors’ Report
61
Summary of remuneration for 2015/16 –  
focused on pay for performance
How will pay be structured in 2015/16?
Pay element Summary of policy Approach for 2015/16
Salary
Increase in line with 
colleagues
Salaries are set taking into consideration a range 
of internal and external factors. Increases are 
normally in line with those for the wider 
workforce.
The Executive Directors received a salary increase of 1.75 per cent in 
March 2015 in line with other central colleagues. The 2015/16 salaries are:
 — Mike Coupe – £915,750
 — John Rogers – £610,500
Benefits Range of benefits provided in line with  
market practice and reflecting individual 
circumstances.
No changes to current arrangements.
Pension Participation in either the Company defined 
contribution plan and/or a cash salary 
supplement. The maximum value is 30 per cent 
of salary.
No changes to salary supplement in lieu of pension for Mike Coupe  
(30 per cent of salary) and John Rogers (25 per cent of salary).
Annual bonus
No change to quantum 
and general structure
Based on key financial, operational and  
individual objectives measured over one year, 
with bonus payable in cash after the year-end.
Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of 
salary per annum.
Performance is based on profit, sales, customer and personal performance. 
Profit will account for at least half of the bonus. A profit gateway needs to  
be achieved before any bonus is payable.
The maximum bonus for 2015/16 is:
 — Mike Coupe – 110 per cent of salary
 — John Rogers – 90 per cent of salary
Deferred Share Award
No change to quantum 
and general structure
Recognises and rewards for delivery of short-term 
strategic and financial objectives which 
contribute towards long-term sustainable growth.
Performance measured over one year, after which 
award made as conditional shares deferred for 
two financial years.
Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of 
salary per annum.
Performance over the financial year is based on financial performance, 
returns to shareholders, relative performance against peers and strategic 
goals. Financial performance and returns to shareholders account for over 
half of the DSA. A profit gateway needs to be achieved before any award 
is made.
The maximum award for 2015/16 is:
 — Mike Coupe – 110 per cent of salary
 — John Rogers – 90 per cent of salary
LTIP/Future Builder
No change to quantum
Performance measures 
aligned to strategic 
priorities
Recognises and rewards for delivery of Company 
performance and shareholder value over the 
longer term.
Awards of conditional share awards with vesting 
dependent on performance measured over a 
period of at least three financial years.
To the extent that targets are met, 50 per cent 
vests following the end of the performance  
period and 50 per cent is deferred for a  
further year.
Maximum award of up to 250 per cent of salary 
per annum under the rules of the plan in respect 
of any financial year.
Awards are structured as core awards, with a performance multiplier of  
up to four times. The 2015/16 awards are:
 — Mike Coupe – core award of 62.5 per cent of salary (max 250 per cent)
 — John Rogers – core award of 50 per cent of salary (max 200 per cent)
Measure Weighting
Threshold target 
(1.0x core award)
Maximum target  
(4.0x core award)
Return on capital employed 25% 9.0% 12.0%
Underlying basic earnings per 
share 
25% 23.0p 30.0p
Cumulative underlying cash 
flow from retail operations 
after capex 
25% £3,500m £5,150m
Cumulative strategic cost 
savings
25% £450m £600m
Performance gateway: The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied 
that the Company’s underlying performance over the period justifies the 
level of vesting.
Shareholding guidelines The Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding (Mike Coupe 2.5 x salary and John Rogers 1.5 x salary), within five 
years of appointment.
Recovery provisions The Committee has reviewed the recovery provisions applicable to incentive plans for Executive Directors and has strengthened 
the existing terms by expanding the current provision to the Deferred Share Award and introducing a new clawback provision 
for incentives operated in the future. Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
62
Annual Report on Remuneration
Remuneration principles
Our colleagues are central to the Company’s ongoing success and the 
Company’s overall reward strategy supports this. Our objective is to have  
a fair, equitable and competitive total reward package that supports our 
vision of being the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop, 
encourages colleagues to perform in ways that deliver great service for 
customers, drives sales and provides opportunities for colleagues to share 
in Sainsbury’s success. This overall reward strategy is the foundation for the 
remuneration policy for senior executives.
The over-arching objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure rewards are 
performance-based and encourage long-term shareholder value creation. The 
remuneration policy for senior executives is based on the following principles:
The Committee takes a rounded approach to pay and considers a variety 
of factors when determining, and subsequently implementing, the 
remuneration policy for senior executives. It believes it is important to 
exercise suitable judgement at all stages during the process to ensure that 
executive pay levels appropriately reflect performance and are aligned with 
the interests of shareholders. 
The Committee regularly reviews the overall structure of remuneration for senior 
executives to ensure that it continues to evolve and is aligned to the corporate 
plan and business goals as well as supporting the interests of shareholders. 
When reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee considers 
pay practices across the Company and the retail sector more generally, the  
impact on colleagues, the cost to the Company, stakeholder views (including 
shareholders, governance bodies and colleagues) and best practice.
Specifically built around 
our updated strategy
Aligned to the Company’s  
values as outlined in our  
20x20 Sustainability Plan 
Encourages the right 
behaviours to deliver 
long-term growth
Recruit and retain high 
calibre leaders who can 
deliver operational 
excellence
Enables executives to 
become shareholders in 
the Company
Linked to business 
strategy
Supports 
Sainsbury’s values
Drives long-term 
growth
Secures high  
calibre leaders
Encourages  
share ownership
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited information)
The table below shows a single remuneration figure for all qualifying services for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015, together with comparative figures for the 
52 weeks to 15 March 2014.
Mike Coupe
5
 
£000
John Rogers
5
£000
Justin King
5,6
£000
Notes 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14
Base salary 801 587 600 520 306 960
Benefits 1 17 18 17 18 7 31
Pension 231 147 150 112 92 288
Total fixed pay 1,049 752 767 650 405 1,279
Annual bonus 2 – 318 – 282 – 781
Deferred Share Award 3 458 423 281 374 – 960
Long-Term Incentive Plan 4 – 495 – 390 – 886
Total 1,507 1,988 1,048 1,696 405 3,906
1 Benefits include a combination of cash and non-cash benefits, valued at the taxable value. For Mike Coupe and John Rogers this includes a cash car allowance (£15,250) and private medical cover. Also included is a value for 
Sharesave options based on a 20 per cent discount on the savings in the year. Justin King’s benefits include the provision of a company car and private medical cover. 
2 Annual bonus relates to performance during the financial year, paid in May following the relevant year-end. Justin King was not eligible for an annual bonus in relation to 2014/15.
3 The Deferred Share Award relates to performance during the financial year, shares are granted in May following the relevant year-end and vest after a two-year deferral period. Justin King was not eligible for a Deferred Share 
Award in relation to 2014/15.
4 The Long-Term Incentive Plan value relates to the Future Builder award vesting in May following the end of the relevant financial year, which is the third year of the performance period. 50 per cent of the shares are released 
in May after the end of the relevant performance period and the balance one year later. The figures include accrued dividends over the performance period. The 2013/14 awards are based on the share price on the initial 
vesting date of 15 May 2014 (£3.3278). 
5 The Executive Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned from non-executive appointments outside the Company. Mike Coupe was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc on 26 July 2011 and received 
£44,269 (2013/14: £43,762) for his services during 2014/15. John Rogers was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc on 1 November 2014 and received £23,192 for his services during the year. Justin King 
was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Staples, Inc. on 17 September 2007. He received US$23,901 for his services during 2014/15 while he was an Executive Director (2013/14: $75,000). During the relevant period no 
restricted Staples stock was released to Justin King (2013/14: 13,715) and no share awards were made (2013/14: 15,412 restricted shares awarded).
6 The figures for Justin King relate to the period to 9 July 2014 when he stepped down from the Board. Directors’ Report
63
The following sections provide details for each element of the package during 
2014/15 as well as details of the Committee’s intended approach in respect of 
2015/16.
Base salary
Salary effective 
from 16 March 2014
Salary effective 
from 15 March 2015
Mike Coupe £900,000
1
£915,750
John Rogers £600,000 £610,500
1 Effective 9 July 2014 on appointment as Chief Executive. His salary prior to appointment as Chief Executive 
was £587,000.
In line with our Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes account of a 
number of factors when considering salaries, with particular focus on the 
general level of salary increases awarded throughout the Company. The 
salary review for management and non-management central colleagues in 
March 2015 was generally 1.75 per cent and for hourly-paid retail colleagues 
in September 2014 was three per cent. External pay data is provided to the 
Committee for reference, relating to the UK retail market and similar-sized 
companies in terms of sales revenue and market capitalisation, but the 
Committee applies judgement when considering market data. The Committee 
agreed a 1.75 per cent increase for both Mike Coupe and John Rogers in 
March 2015.
Pension 
In lieu of pension plan participation, Mike Coupe receives a cash pension 
supplement of 30 per cent of salary and John Rogers 25 per cent of salary. 
Neither Director has any entitlement to a defined benefit pension.
Benefits 
For 2014/15 and 2015/16, benefits for Executive Directors include the 
provision of company car benefits, private medical cover, long-term disability 
insurance, life assurance and colleague discount. 
Performance-related pay 
The Committee believes it is important that for Executive Directors a significant 
portion of the package is performance-related and the performance conditions 
applying to incentive arrangements support the delivery of the Company’s 
strategy and the long-term sustainable success of the Company. The Committee 
considers performance against a range of metrics to ensure that the assessment 
is rounded, taking into account both qualitative and quantitative factors. 
In November 2014, we announced our new strategy in response to the major 
structural change taking place in the UK grocery market. The table below outlines 
each of the performance measures to be used in our 2015/16 performance-
related pay arrangements and how they support our business strategy.
What the business is focused on
Core focus:
Great products and 
services at fair prices
There for our customers
Colleagues making the 
difference
We know our
customers better 
than anyone else
Our values make  
us different
Annual bonus
Profit 
Sales   
Customer   
Individual performance   
DSA
Financial performance 
Returns to shareholders 
Relative performance  
Strategic goals   
Future Builder
ROCE 
EPS 
Cash flow 
Strategic cost savings 
The Board is of the opinion that the performance targets for the annual bonus 
and Deferred Share Award are commercially sensitive as we operate in a 
highly competitive, consumer-facing sector. The disclosure of targets would 
provide competitors, even after the end of the performance period, with 
insights into the Company’s strategic aims, budgeting and growth 
projections. Therefore, a full breakdown of the targets for the 2014/15 and 
2015/16 awards has not been provided. However, in the following sections 
and consistent with the approach taken in last year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration, the Committee has looked to provide expanded disclosure 
where possible so that shareholders can understand the basis for payments.
Annual bonus
2015/16 policy
All bonus plans across the Company are aligned under a set of common 
principles. The Board and senior management plans are based on profit, 
sales, a customer-focused measure and personal performance. Bonus awards 
are weighted to the achievement of profit, at least 50 per cent under the 
current structure, and profit also acts as the overall ‘gateway’ measure for the 
plan, reflecting the emphasis on profit. The annual bonus is paid in cash after 
the year-end.
The profit and sales targets are set against the Company’s expected 
performance and are subject to a rigorous process of challenge before the 
proposals are considered by the Board. For 2015/16, the targets have been set 
such that stretching performance in excess of internal and external forecasts 
is required for maximum payout. The customer-focused measure for 2015/16 
is based on customer service (relating to how well the store support centres 
support customers and stores).
Individual performance objectives are set annually for each Executive Director 
and are reviewed by the Committee. These objectives cover a variety of 
financial and operational targets that contribute to the achievement of 
longer-term strategic goals; some of these objectives relate, either directly or 
indirectly, to the Company’s values. 
The maximum annual bonus opportunity is unchanged from 2014/15, and 
for the Chief Executive is 110 per cent of base salary and for the Chief 
Financial Officer is 90 per cent of base salary.
2014/15 annual bonus payment (audited information)
The performance measures for 2014/15 were the same as outlined above for 
2015/16, apart from the customer-focused measure which was based on 
product availability and customer service measures. The Committee considers 
that the detail of targets applying to the annual bonus for 2014/15 continues to 
be commercially sensitive. However, an explanation of the outcome, including 
the positioning against the performance scale for each element, is shown below:
Profit Sales
Customer- 
focused
Above target
• Target
Threshold
Below threshold
• • The Committee assessed performance against the targets following the end 
of the financial year. The continuing structural change to the grocery retail 
market, the heightened competitive environment, food price deflation and 
price investments have had a significant impact on the profitability of the 
sector and on our financial performance. The absolute financial targets were 
set at the start of the year, when there was considerable uncertainty 
regarding market conditions, and ultimately the profit and sales outcomes 
for 2014/15 were below the stretching thresholds set, despite outperforming 
our main supermarket peers in terms of profit. As the threshold level of the 
financial metrics were not achieved, the Committee determined that no 
bonus would be paid to the Executive Directors for 2014/15.
While no bonus is payable for the senior team, other colleagues outperformed 
some of their performance targets. Therefore, colleagues and managers will 
share in a bonus pool of over £50m. This amount is lower than in previous 
years, but recognises the performance of our colleagues. Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
64
Deferred Share Award
2015/16 policy
The Deferred Share Award is used to drive performance against a diverse 
range of business-critical financial and strategic scorecard measures and 
rewards Executive Directors for achieving the short-term objectives that will 
directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company. 
These awards are made in shares to ensure further alignment of Executive 
Directors’ interests with shareholders. 
The DSA covers the top 40 senior leaders in the Company, including Executive 
Directors. Performance is assessed in the round based on the Committee’s 
judgement of performance achieved against a number of measures within 
four broad categories. The categories and examples of the measures that will 
be reviewed for 2015/16 are set out below.
Financial performance Profit, earnings per share, sales
Returns to shareholders Total shareholder return, dividend yield
Relative performance against peers Market share, industry profit pool
Strategic goals Updated strategy objectives
As outlined in our Remuneration Policy, at least 50 per cent of the award  
will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to 
shareholders. In addition, no shares will be awarded unless a profit gateway 
target is achieved.
Performance is assessed over one financial year, but any shares awarded are 
deferred for a further two financial years. The shares are subject to forfeiture 
if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date. 
Dividends accrue during the deferral period on the shares that vest in the 
form of additional shares.
The maximum DSA award opportunity for the Chief Executive is 110 per cent 
of base salary and for the Chief Financial Officer 90 per cent of base salary.
2014/15 Deferred Share Award (audited information) 
Following the year-end, the Committee conducted a rigorous assessment 
of performance. Consistent with the underlying principles of the DSA, the 
Committee assessed achievements in the round and also considered the 
manner in which these performance goals had been delivered, in particular 
how the overall performance of the Company had contributed to its future, 
sustainable growth and success. 
In the context of the major structural change taking place in the market, the 
Company performed well against its main supermarket peers and delivered 
strongly against key strategic objectives during the highly competitive and 
challenging 2014/15 financial year. However, many elements of financial 
performance and returns to shareholders were below targeted levels. The 
profit gateway, which was set to reflect economic conditions, was met. 
Given the performance and progress during the year, the Committee agreed 
that for 2014/15 awards would be made at 52 per cent of the maximum level 
(see table below), compared with 80 per cent last year. These are the figures 
set out in the DSA row of the single total figure table. The share award is 
made in May 2015 and the shares vest in March 2017 subject to continued 
employment. 
Deferred Share Award for 2014/15
Value 
£000
Per cent of 
salary
Per cent of 
maximum
Maximum  
per cent  
of salary
Mike Coupe
1
458 57% 52% 110%
John Rogers 281 47% 52% 90%
1 The Deferred Share Award is based on Mike Coupe’s average salary for 2014/15.
Although some of the specific measures and targets are commercially 
sensitive, the sections in the table opposite present a selection of 
performance highlights which the Committee took into account within 
each of the four categories. 
  Directors’ Report
65
Strategic goals
New strategy
 — After Mike took over as CEO, Sainsbury’s 
undertook a thorough review of the market, 
the business and our customers’ rapidly 
changing lives
 — Announced in November, our updated strategy 
builds on our strong foundations as a business 
that has been successful for 146 years, our 
brand heritage, our great quality and our fair 
prices
 — It remains focused on helping our customers 
Live Well For Less. Our values and our vision, to 
be the most trusted retailer where people love 
to work and shop, remain unchanged
Great products and services at fair prices
 — We are improving the quality of 3,000 
own-brand products, investing in the products 
that matter most to customers
 — Since November we have lowered the price of 
over 1,100 products
 — Our clothing, general merchandising and 
financial services businesses are profitable, 
well-established and continue to show 
excellent growth and strong potential
 — Sainsbury’s Bank’s operating profit has 
increased by 17 per cent to £62 million
There for our customers
 — Convenience sales grew at over 16 per cent, 
and now contribute sales of over £2.1 billion 
 — We opened 98 convenience stores in the year, 
reaching a total of 707 stores
 — Groceries online delivered sales growth of  
over seven per cent. On average we now  
deliver nearly 215,000 orders per week,  
up 13 per cent
 — Our joint venture trial to bring Netto back  
to the UK continues and there are now five 
stores open
Colleagues making a difference
 — Our customer service and availability 
measures are at an all-time high
 — Since we opened our new training college 
in Brixton we have run 360 courses in 
management skills, coaching and operations
 — We have invested in the right tools for the job 
to help colleagues work effectively together 
wherever they are located in our business
We know our customers better than  
anyone else
 — Our new Trolley T alk initiative, launched in 
September, enables us to reach around 4,000 
people online every week
 — With Nectar and coupon-at-till technology, we 
are able to reward, in a targeted way, those 
who shop with us
 — Over time we are investing in ways to give 
customers a smoother shopping experience 
and engaging with the new technology of 
shopping formats such as mobile scan & go
Our values make us different
 — This year with help from our customers, 
colleagues and suppliers we raised £52 million 
for charitable causes, including over £11.5 
million for Red Nose Day 2015 and around £7 
million in support of The Royal British Legion
 — Our dedicated Dairy Development Group 
protects members through a Cost of 
Production model that ensures they are paid 
a fair price
 — Our Cannock store became the first retail outlet 
in the UK to be powered by food waste alone
2014/15 Deferred Share Award performance
Financial performance Returns to shareholders Relative performance against peers
A tough trading environment…
 — Underlying PBT of £681 million, a decline of  
14.7 per cent
 — Underlying retail operating margin of  
 3.07 per cent, a decline of 58 basis points
 — Net debt reduced to £2.34 billion
Resulting in lower returns to shareholders…
 — ROCE 9.7 per cent
 — Underlying basic EPS of 26.4 pence
 — Proposed full-year dividend 13.2 pence,  
with dividend cover 2.0x underlying earnings
But a strong relative profit performance…
 — Our profit has outperformed our main 
supermarket peers
 — We have never been more competitive on price 
than we are today Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
66
Long-term incentives
2015/16 policy
The long-term incentive vehicle in use at Sainsbury’s is known as Future 
Builder. Awards are made under the shareholder approved 2006 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan and the overall maximum award permitted by the rules of the 
plan is 250 per cent of salary including the performance multiplier.
Around 200 senior managers participate in this arrangement. A core award of 
shares is granted, calculated as a percentage of salary and scaled according 
to level of seniority. Vesting of the core award is dependent upon 
performance against specific measures (common for all participants) tested 
at the end of a three-year performance period. The core award can grow by 
up to four times at stretch levels of performance. Half of any vested shares are 
released at the end of the performance period, while the remaining half are 
released after a further year. Dividends accrue between grant and vesting on 
the shares that vest, in the form of additional shares.
As outlined in the Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman, during the year the Committee reviewed the Future Builder 
performance measures and targets in the context of market expectations 
over the next three years, and to ensure they were aligned to the updated 
business plan. After consulting with shareholders, and within the scope of 
the approved remuneration policy, the Committee agreed the following 
performance measures, targets and weightings for the 2015 awards:
Measure Weighting
Threshold 
target 
(1.0x core 
award)
Maximum 
target 
(4.0x core 
award)
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) 25% 9.0% 12.0%
Underlying basic earnings per share 
(‘EPS’)
25% 23.0p 30.0p
Cumulative underlying cash flow 
from retail operations after capex 
(‘cash flow’)
25% £3,500m £5,150m
Cumulative strategic cost savings 
(‘cost savings’)
25% £450m £600m
In addition, a performance gateway must be achieved before any element 
can vest. The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the Company’s 
underlying performance over the period justifies the level of vesting. Vesting 
will be reduced if the vesting outcome is not considered to be justified. At 
vesting, when making this judgement the Committee has scope to consider 
such factors as it deems relevant.  The Committee believes that having 
a gateway is an important feature of the plan and mitigates the risk of 
unwarranted vesting outcomes. 
In 2015 Mike Coupe will receive a core award of 62.5 per cent of salary 
(maximum 250 per cent of salary) and John Rogers will receive a core award 
of 50 per cent of salary (maximum 200 per cent of salary).
2015 vesting (audited information)
The 2012 Future Builder award was subject to ROCE, cash flow and relative 
sales performance targets. In addition, the award was also subject to an EPS 
performance gateway which required EPS growth of at least four per cent per 
annum (further details are set out in the footnotes to the table on page 71). 
The EPS gateway applicable to the 2012 awards was not achieved and 
therefore no awards will vest under this plan in May 2015, despite the 
Company’s performance being within the vesting range for the 
performance conditions. 
Recovery provisions
The approved remuneration policy contains a recovery provision in relation to 
Future Builder awards. In cases of material mis-statement of financial results, 
serious reputational damage, serious misconduct and fraud, the Committee 
may reduce the number of shares under an unvested award, cancel an 
unvested award in full or impose further conditions on an unvested award. 
This provision will now be extended to the Deferred Share Award from 2015/16.
In addition, the Committee has further strengthened the recovery provisions 
applicable to future awards. For future awards, a clawback provision will be 
introduced in relation to all incentive plans. In the circumstances listed above, 
the Committee may require an Executive Director to make a repayment in 
relation to bonus payments or share awards received within two years of the 
end of the relevant performance period. This provision will apply to the cash 
bonus and DSA for 2015/16 and to the Future Builder award granted in 2015.
Future Builder performance measures
ROCE
 — ROCE reflects the returns generated for shareholders and measures 
the efficiency of capital use. 
 — It is based on the underlying profit before interest and tax for the 
whole business, with Sainsbury’s Bank fully consolidated, including 
the underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures. The capital 
employed figure excludes the IAS 19 pension deficit.
EPS
 — EPS directly reflects returns generated for shareholders. 
 — Underlying basic EPS is based on underlying profit after tax divided 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during 
the year.
Cash flow
 — Cash flow measures the total flow of cash in and out of the business 
as well as providing an assessment of underlying profitability. The 
expanded cash flow measure for 2015 awards takes into account the 
reduced capital expenditure targets in our strategy.
 — Cumulative underlying cash flow from retail operations after capital 
expenditure is based on the reported cash flow generated from core 
retail operations over the performance period after adding back net 
rent, cash pension costs and deducting core capital expenditure. Only 
core retail operations are included in recognition of the differences in 
cash generation between the retail business and Sainsbury’s Bank.
Cost savings
 — Cost saving is one of our key strategic targets and the level of savings 
targeted will require structural changes. This is a key long-term 
measure which is fundamental to delivering returns to shareholders.
 — Cumulative strategic cost savings represents cost reductions over the 
performance period as a result of identified initiatives. It excludes 
Sainsbury’s Bank.  Directors’ Report
67
Share awards made during the financial year (audited information)
The following share awards were made to Executive Directors during the year. The Future Builder award levels are determined by the normal grant policy for  
the role and, in the case of the DSA, performance over the previous year.
Scheme
Basis of award 
(maximum) Face value
Percentage vesting at  
threshold performance Number of shares
Performance  
period end date
Mike Coupe Future Builder
1,2
250% of salary £2,002,782 25% of each element 599,740 11/03/2017
DSA
3
72% of salary £422,640 N/A 126,561 N/A
John Rogers Future Builder
1
200% of salary £1,200,000 25% of each element 359,344 11/03/2017
DSA
3
72% of salary £374,400 N/A 112,115 N/A
Former Director:
Justin King DSA
3
100% of salary £960,000 N/A 287,476 N/A
1 The performance conditions applying to 2014 Future Builder awards were set out in last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. The awards are based on ROCE – 50% (threshold – 10.75%; maximum – 12%), cumulative cash 
flow from retail operations – 30% (threshold – £5,750m; maximum – £6,750m) and relative sales against the IGD index – 20% (threshold – match index; maximum – index + 1% pa). For threshold performance, up to 25% of 
the element may vest. In addition, a performance gateway must be achieved, whereby the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the Company’s underlying performance over the period justifies the level of vesting. 
 The basis of award shows the maximum value, being four times the core award. The award was made on 15 May 2014 and the number of shares has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant  
(8 to 14 May 2014) of £3.3394. Subject to performance, 50 per cent of the award vests on 11 May 2017 and 50 per cent 12 months later. The award is structured as a nil-cost option with a two-year exercise period.
2 Mike Coupe received his Future Builder awards in 2014 in two parts – an award on 15 May 2014 relating to his role as Group Commercial Director and an additional award on 10 July 2014 following his appointment as Chief Executive. 
The overall award of 250 per cent is based on his average salary for the 2014/15 financial year. The performance conditions, share price to calculate the number of shares and vesting dates are the same for both awards.
3 The DSA was made on 15 May 2014 based on performance over the 2013/14 financial year. The award was made at 80 per cent of the maximum level (maximum of 90 per cent of salary for Mike Coupe and John Rogers and 
125 per cent of salary for Justin King). The number of shares has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant (8 to 14 May 2014) of £3.3394. No further performance conditions apply. Awards become 
exercisable on 18 March 2016. The award is structured as a nil-cost option with an eight-year exercise period.
All-employee share plans 
In line with our 20x20 target of increasing the number of colleagues with 
shares in the Company by 25 per cent, the Company provides two all-
employee share plans for colleagues, namely the Savings-Related Share 
Option Plan (‘Sharesave’) and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan, of 
which the Sainsbury’s Share Purchase Plan (‘SSPP’) is a part. Executive 
Directors may participate in these plans in the same way as all other 
colleagues. Mike Coupe participates in Sharesave and John Rogers currently 
participates in both plans. As these are all-employee plans there are no 
performance conditions. The Committee approves the adoption or 
amendment of these plans and awards to Executive Directors. 
The 2009 Sharesave plan (five-year), with a £2.73 option price, and the 2011 
Sharesave plan (three-year), with a £2.38 option price, came to an end on 
1 March 2015 for around 13,000 colleagues. Colleagues could either take 
their savings and any tax-free bonus or use the money to buy Sainsbury’s 
shares at the option price. Using the market price on the date of the first 
exercise, the value of all the shares subject to the maturity was nearly 
£29 million. The Company currently has over 31,000 colleagues participating 
in Sharesave with around 62,000 individual savings contracts. 
Dilution 
The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Company’s 
share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best 
practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not 
exceed ten per cent of the Company’s issued share capital for all-employee 
share plans and five per cent in respect of executive share plans in any 
ten-year rolling period. The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular 
basis and the Committee reviews these at least once a year. Up to 14 March 
2015, an estimated 9.0 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital  
has been allocated for the purposes of its all-employee share plans over  
a ten-year period, including an estimated 4.1 per cent over ten years in 
respect of its executive share plans. This is on the basis that all outstanding 
awards vest in full.
Shareholding guidelines (audited information)
The Executive Directors are required to build up a specified level of 
shareholding in the Company. This is to create greater alignment of the 
Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, in line with the objectives  
of the remuneration policy. The guidelines require the Chief Executive to  
have a holding of 2.5 times salary and the Chief Financial Officer 1.5 times 
salary. Directors are required to build this shareholding within five years of 
appointment to the relevant role. In addition to shares held, share awards 
under the DSA and Value/Future Builder awards where the performance 
period has ended count towards the guideline (on a net of tax basis).
Both Executive Directors have shareholdings that meet and significantly 
exceed the current shareholding guideline.
Notes
Shareholding calculated using (i) salaries as at 14 March 2015, (ii) share total based on total of shareholding 
plus net of tax value (tax assumed to be 47 per cent) of share awards not subject to performance as at 
14 March 2015 and (iii) the closing mid-market share price on 13 March 2015 of £2.5910.
Number of shares (000)
Mike Coupe John Rogers
Shareholding guidelines
Shareholding Share awards Guideline
1,500
1,250
1,000
750
500
250
0
2.8 x salary
3.2 x salary Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
68
Executive Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited information)
The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors’ shareholdings and a summary of their outstanding share awards at the end of the 2014/15 financial 
year. Further details of the movements of the Executive Directors’ share awards during the year are set out on page 71.
Ordinary shares
1
Scheme interests
3
15 March 2014 14 March 2015 5 May 2015
2
Deferred Share Awards
4
Value Builder awards 
with performance period 
completed
5
Future Builder awards 
with performance 
period outstanding
6
SAYE
Mike Coupe 801,949 960,487 960,487 238,509 63,730 1,276,712 4,518
John Rogers 376,644 501,351 501,437 211,408 50,194 959,452 6,302
Former Director:
Justin King 1,282,115 1,438,835
7
N/A 541,659 114,150 1,217,592 0
1 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors’ personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children. They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the 
Sainsbury’s Share Purchase Plan.
2 The total includes shares purchased under the Sainsbury’s Share Purchase Plan between 14 March 2015 and 5 May 2015.
3 Deferred Share Awards and Value/Future Builder awards are structured as nil-cost options. 
4 Relates to 2012/13 and 2013/14 Deferred Share Awards. 
5 Relates to 2011 Value Builder awards that have met the performance test but have not yet vested. 
6 Relates to 2012, 2013 and 2014 Future Builder awards (maximum) where the performance period has not ended. The 2012 award has subsequently lapsed after the end of the financial year.
7 As at date of cessation of employment.
 
Note: The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Company’s employee benefit trust, which is used to satisfy awards under the Company’s employee share plans, and they are therefore treated as interested in the 
6.0 million shares (2014: 2.1 million) held by the Trustees. 
Departure terms of Justin King
Justin King stepped down from the Board at the AGM on 9 July 2014.  
Full details of his departure terms were set out in the January 2014 
announcement of his departure and in last year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration. His contract provided for a cash severance payment 
potentially worth up to 175 per cent of his base salary at departure. However, 
he offered to waive this cash entitlement. The Remuneration Committee 
determined the following treatment:
 — There were no payments in lieu of notice;
 — He received no annual bonus, Deferred Share Award or Future Builder for 
2014/15;
 — There was no acceleration of vesting for any share awards;
 — The 2012/13 and 2013/14 Deferred Share Awards subsist in full until the 
end of the normal deferral period; and
 — The 2011 Value Builder and 2012 and 2013 Future Builder awards subsist 
in full until the end of the normal vesting period, subject to performance 
(i.e. at a vesting level consistent with other colleagues). As noted above, 
the 2012 Future Builder award lapsed in full after the year-end.
Justin subsequently ceased to be an employee on 2 August 2014. He earned 
£125,000 (including salary, pension and benefits) in the year after he ceased 
to be a Director at the AGM.
Performance graph and remuneration table 
The graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of £100 in 
J Sainsbury plc shares over the last six years compared with an equivalent 
investment in the FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE 100 Index has been selected to 
provide an established and broad-based index. The graph also includes the 
FTSE All-Share Food & Drug Retailers Index. The Company is a constituent 
of both indices. The following table details the total remuneration for the 
Chief Executive over this period.
FTSE 100 FTSE All-Share Food & Drug Retailers Sainsbury’s
Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 15 Mar 14
TSR performance since March 2009
250
200
150
100
50
0
Chief Executive’s total remuneration in last six financial years
2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15
1
Justin King Mike Coupe
Single figure remuneration £000 4,441 4,380 3,471 4,366 3,906 405 1,507
Bonus/DSA award as a percentage of maximum 92% 65% 61% 84% 73% 0% 26%
LTIP vesting percentage of maximum 80% 48% 43% 44% 40% 0% 0%
1 Justin King’s figures relate to the time he was Chief Executive during 2014/15. Consistent with the single figure table, the figures for Mike Coupe relate to the whole of 2014/15; he was Chief Executive from 9 July 2014. Directors’ Report
69
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s 
salary, benefits and bonus between 2013/14 and 2014/15 compares with the 
percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for all 
our colleagues. 
Salary 
% change
Benefits 
% change
Bonus 
% change
Chief Executive
1
N/A -5.6% -100%
All colleagues
2
3.4% 11.3% -33.8%
1 Mike Coupe’s salary was adjusted on appointment as Chief Executive; he did not receive any other salary 
change during the year. The benefit and bonus figures relate to the whole year. The bonus figure only 
relates to the cash annual bonus. 
2 Figures relate to average based on number of full-time equivalent colleagues.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total colleague  
pay (being the aggregate staff costs as set out in note 7 to the  
financial statements) and distributions to shareholders (being  
declared dividends).
Colleague pay Distribution to shareholders
2013/14
£m
2014/15
£m % change
2013/14
£m
2014/15 
£m % change
2,435 2,445 0.4% 320 330 3.1%
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (audited information)
The table below shows a single remuneration figure for all qualifying services for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 for each Non-Executive Director, together with 
comparative figures for the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014. 
2014/15 2013/14
Fees
1
£000
Benefits
2
£000
Total
£000
Fees
1
£000
Benefits
2
£000
Total
£000
David Tyler 490 1 491 480 1 481
Matt Brittin 62 – 62 61 – 61
Mary Harris 80 4 84 77 5 82
Gary Hughes 80 12 92 77 12 89
John McAdam 80 – 80 77 – 77
Susan Rice 62 8 70 49 5 54
Jean Tomlin 75 – 75 74 – 74
1 Paid in relation to the year.
2 David Tyler received a non-cash benefit of private medical cover. The benefits for the other Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to Board meetings held at the Company’s registered office.
The Chairman receives an annual cash fee and benefits of private medical 
cover and a colleague discount card.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base annual cash fee; additional fees are 
paid to the Senior Independent Director and to the Chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committees. 
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits other than a colleague 
discount card. 
Details of the Board and Committee schedule of meetings and the number of 
meetings attended by the Directors are set out on page 47.
During the year, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees were 
reviewed but no changes were made.
 
Fees effective 
from  
29 September 
2013
Chairman fee £490,000
Base fee £62,500
Senior Independent Director fee (additional) £17,500
Chairman of Remuneration Committee fee 
(additional)
£17,500
Chairman of Audit Committee fee (additional) £17,500
Chairman of Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee fee (additional)
£12,500
The beneficial interest of the Non-Executive Directors, in post at the year-end, 
and their families in the shares of the Company are shown below.
Ordinary shares
1
15 March 2014 14 March 2015 5 May 2015
David Tyler 50,000 50,000 50,000
Matt Brittin 1,000 1,000 1,000
Mary Harris 12,123 12,848 12,848
Gary Hughes 33,032 35,006 35,006
John McAdam 1,000 1,000 1,000
Susan Rice 1,000 1,000 1,000
Jean Tomlin 1,315 1,315 1,315
1 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors’ personal holdings and those of their 
spouses and minor children. 
Dates of Directors’ service contracts and letters  
of appointment
Mike Coupe   1 August 2007 (post appointment as Chief Executive 
9 July 2014)
John Rogers 19 July 2010
David Tyler  1 October 2009 (Chairman from 1 November 2009)
Matt Brittin 27 January 2011
Mary Harris  1 August 2007 
Gary Hughes  1 January 2005 
John McAdam  1 September 2005
Susan Rice 1 June 2013
Jean Tomlin 1 January 2013 Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
70
Governance – the Remuneration Committee 
Committee membership
The Remuneration Committee comprises Mary Harris, John McAdam and 
Jean Tomlin. All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive 
Directors. 
Role and responsibilities of the Committee 
The Committee complies with relevant regulations and considers the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and best practice when determining pay and 
policy. The specific responsibilities of the Committee include: 
 — Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the 
Chairman, Executive Directors and the Operating Board Directors; 
 — Setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, 
Executive Directors and Operating Board Directors;
 — Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across the Company; 
 — Approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including 
termination arrangements; and
 — Considering the achievement of the performance conditions under annual 
and long-term incentive/bonus arrangements.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s website 
(www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investor-centre/corporate-governance). 
Tim Fallowfield, Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee. 
David Tyler, Mike Coupe, Angie Risley (Group HR Director), Lorna Godman 
(Head of Reward) and Ed Barker (Director of Group Finance), are invited to 
attend Committee meetings. John Rogers has also attended selected 
meetings. The Committee considers their views when reviewing the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors and Operating Board Directors. 
Individuals who attend Remuneration Committee meetings are not present 
when their own remuneration is being determined. 
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2014/15
The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in 
addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.  
The Committee typically meets four times each year, or more as required.  
The table below shows the standard items considered at each meeting.  
The key issues the Committee discussed during the year were the incentive 
arrangements and the targets applying to the 2015 Future Builder awards.
Standard agenda items
September — Performance update on outstanding incentive awards
 — Review of incentive arrangements
 — Review of dilution under Company share plans
 — Corporate governance and market update 
 — Review of the Chairman’s fee
January — Competitive review of Executive Directors’ salary and total 
remuneration packages
 — Performance update on outstanding incentive awards
 — Initial discussions on long-term incentive plan for the next 
financial year
 — Corporate governance update 
March — Review of incentive arrangements for the next financial year
 — Executive Directors’ salary review decisions
 — Performance update on outstanding incentive awards
 — Review of advisers and their independence
April — Review of performance and outcomes under the annual 
bonus and Deferred Share Award
 — Review of performance and vesting under long-term incentives
 — Determining incentive structure for the next financial year 
including finalisation of targets
 — Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers if it 
considers this beneficial. Over the course of the year, the Committee was 
supported by its appointed advisers, Deloitte LLP (‘Deloitte’). Deloitte were 
reappointed by the Committee as advisers in 2013 following a competitive 
tender. During the year they provided advice to the Committee on a range of 
topics including remuneration trends, corporate governance, incentive plan 
design and consulting with shareholders. Their consultants attended all of the 
Committee meetings. In relation to their advice, Deloitte received fees of circa 
£170,000 (fees are based on hours spent). During the year, Deloitte provided 
the Company with unrelated advice and consultancy regarding information 
technology, organisational structure, data analytics, taxation and matters 
relating to Sainsbury’s Bank.
Towers Watson provided comparative data, which was considered by the 
Committee in setting remuneration levels, for which they received fees of 
circa £25,000. Towers Watson also provided comparative data to Sainsbury’s 
Bank and other services to the Company relating to pensions and employee 
engagement.
Both Deloitte and Towers Watson are members of the Remuneration 
Consulting Group and, as such, operate under the Code of Conduct in relation 
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. During the year, the 
Committee reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte and Towers Watson and 
has confirmed that it has been objective and independent. The Committee 
has also determined that the Deloitte partner who provides remuneration 
advice to the Committee does not have any connections with the Company 
that may impact their independence. The Committee has reviewed the 
potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate 
safeguards against such conflicts. 
Statement of voting at general meeting
The table below sets out the votes on the Directors’ Remuneration Report at 
the 2014 AGM. The Committee is keen to hear the views of all shareholders 
and continually reviews the remuneration policy and implementation.
Votes for Votes against Votes abstained
Remuneration Report 99.48%  
1,203 million
0.52%  
6.3 million
3.7 million
Remuneration Policy 99.15%  
1,154 million
0.85%  
9.8 million
49.8 million Directors’ Report
71
Details of the Executive Directors’ share awards and movements during the year (audited information) 
The table below shows the conditional awards granted and exercised under each of the Company’s share plans. 
Date of 
grant
Share 
price at 
date of 
award
(pence)
Option 
price
Number of 
options  
held as at  
16 March  
2014
Number 
of options 
granted/
dividend 
shares 
allocated 
during the 
year
Number 
of options 
released in 
the year
Number 
of options 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Date of 
exercise
Mid-market 
share price 
on date of 
exercise 
(pence)
Number 
of options 
exercised
Notional 
gain on 
exercise 
(£000)
Number  
of options 
held as at  
15 March  
2015
 Mike Coupe Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 2006
1
 
 21.06.10 329  Nil 68,908 14,947
5
 83,855  –  16.05.14 348 83,855 292  – 
   19.05.11 343  Nil 318,648
4
 10,622
6
 74,352 191,189
6
 16.05.14 348 74,352 259 63,730 
   17.05.12 295  Nil 370,988
4
  –
 
 –  –  –  –  –  – 370,988
4
 
   16.05.13 375  Nil 305,984
4
  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 305,984
4
 
   15.05.14
9
 333  Nil  – 599,740
4
  –  –  –  –  –  – 599,740
4
 
  Deferred Share Award
2
 17.05.12 295  Nil 127,953  13,505
7
 141,458  –  08.05.14 331 141,458 469  – 
   16.05.13 375  Nil 111,948  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  111,948 
 
 
 15.05.14 333  Nil  –  126,561  –  –  –  –  –  – 126,561 
  Sharesave
3
  11.12.13 388  332 4,518  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  4,518 
 Total   1,308,947 765,375 299,665 191,189   299,665 1,020
8
 1,583,469 
 John Rogers Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 2006
1
 
 21.06.10  329  Nil 41,885  9,085
5
 50,970  –  16.05.14 348 50,970  177  – 
   19.05.11  343  Nil 250,972
4
  8,366
6
 58,560 150,584
6
 16.05.14  348 58,560  204  50,194
   17.05.12  295  Nil 329,052
4
  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 329,052
4
   16.05.13  375  Nil 271,056
4
  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 271,056
4
   15.05.14 333 Nil  –  359,344
4
 –  –  –  –  –  –  359,344
4
 
  Deferred Share Award
2
 17.05.12  295  Nil  113,233  11,951
7
125,184  –  08.05.14  331 125,184 415 – 
   16.05.13  375  Nil  99,293 –  –  –  –  –  –  –  99,293 
 
 
 15.05.14  333  Nil  – 112,115 – –  –  –  –  –  112,115 
  Sharesave
3
  09.12.11  297 238  6,302  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  6,302 
 Total  1,111,793 500,861 234,714 150,584  234,714  796
8
 1,227,356 
 Justin King Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 2006
1
 
 21.06.10  329  Nil 133,763  29,016
5
 162,779  –  16.05.14  348 162,779  566 – 
   19.05.11  343  Nil 570,748
4
  19,025
6
  133,175 342,448
6
  16.05.14  348 133,175  463 114,150 
   17.05.12  295  Nil 667,136
4
  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 667,136
4
 
   16.05.13  375  Nil 550,456
4
  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 550,456
4
 
  Deferred Share Award
2
  17.05.12  295  Nil 289,373  30,546
7
 319,919  –  08.05.14  331 319,919 1,060  – 
   16.05.13  375  Nil 254,183  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 254,183 
   15.05.14  333  Nil  –  287,476  –  –  –  –  –  – 287,476 
  Sharesave
3
  11.12.13  388  332  2,710  –  – 2,710  –  –  –  –  – 
 Total  2,468,369  366,063 615,873 345,158   615,873 2,089
8
1,873,401 
1 The 2012 and 2013 awards are based on ROCE – 50% (threshold – 10.75%; maximum – 12%), cumulative cash flow from operations – 30% (threshold – £5,500m; maximum – £6,500m) and relative sales against the IGD 
index – 20% (threshold – match index; maximum – index + 1% pa). In addition, a performance gateway must be achieved, whereby EPS must grow by at least four per cent per annum for any award to vest. Details of the 
performance conditions applying to 2014 Future Builder awards are set out in the footnotes to the share awards made during the financial year table on page 67.  
2 See page 64 for details of the Deferred Share Award, including performance conditions.
3 Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance conditions as per HMRC Regulations.
4 Maximum award which could be achieved.
5 The second half of the award which vested in May 2013 was released in May 2014. The number of dividend shares was determined by a five-day average share price from 8 to 14 May 2014. 
6 The performance of the award made in May 2011 was tested in May 2014 and a multiplier of 1.6 was achieved. The number of shares between the maximum multiplier (4.0) and the multiplier achieved have lapsed.  
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2014 whilst the remainder of the achieved award will vest in May 2015. The number of dividend shares was determined by a five-day average share price from 8 to 14 May 2014. 
7 The number of dividend shares for the 2012 award was determined by a five-day average share price following the announcement of interim and preliminary results: 10 to 16 May 2012, 15 to 21 November 2012,  
9 to 15 May 2013 and 14 to 20 November 2013.
8 This is the notional gain on the date of exercise had all shares been sold.
9 Mike Coupe’s 2014 Future Builder award was made in two parts on 15 May 2014 and 10 July 2014. The combined award is shown. Further details are set out in the footnotes to the share awards made during the financial year 
table on page 67. Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
72
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 9 July 2014. The full policy, including approach to recruitment, service 
contracts, termination arrangements etc, can be found in the 2014 Annual Report on our website. 
The approved remuneration policy tables for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which were published in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, are set out below. For clarity, where the policy table included references to implementation of the policy in 2013/14 or 2014/15, these references have 
been removed. Details of remuneration arrangements for 2014/15 and 2015/16 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy Core element of remuneration used to attract and retain executives who can deliver our strategic objectives.
Operation Typically reviewed annually in March.
Consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including business and individual performance, role, 
responsibilities, scope, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Opportunity Salary increases (in percentage of salary terms) for Executive Directors will normally be within the range of those for the 
wider workforce. There is no maximum salary opportunity.
Where the Committee considers it necessary and appropriate, larger increases may be awarded in individual circumstances 
such as:
 — A change in scope or responsibility;
 — If a new Executive Director is appointed at a lower rate and the salary is realigned over time as the individual gains 
experience in the role; or
 — Alignment to market level.
Performance details None
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy Competitive benefits to assist in attracting and retaining executives.
Operation A range of benefits may be provided including, but not limited to, the provision of company car benefits (or cash equivalent), 
private medical cover, life assurance, long-term disability insurance, all-employee share plan participation and colleague 
discount.
The Committee keeps the benefits offered, the policies and the levels provided under regular review.
Opportunity The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the context of relevant market practice for comparable roles and taking 
into account any individual circumstances (e.g. relocation). There is no maximum monetary value.
Participation in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plan is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the 
relevant legislation.
Performance details None
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy Provides an income following retirement and assists colleagues building wealth for their future.
Operation JS Self Invested Pension Plan (‘SIPP’, a defined contribution plan) and/or a cash salary supplement.
Opportunity Maximum value of up to 30 per cent of salary per annum for existing Executive Directors.
For new hires the nature and value of any pension provided will be, in the Committee’s view, reasonable in the context of 
market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individual’s circumstances and the cost to the Company.
Performance details None
Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy Rewards performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
Operation Performance measured over one year, bonus payable in cash after the year-end.
Bonus level determined by the Committee after the year-end based on performance against targets.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary per annum.
The level of threshold payment for performance varies depending on the performance measure, with payouts from zero per 
cent. Full vesting requires outperformance of stretch objectives.
Performance details Based on a combination of financial (e.g. profit), operational (e.g. customer, availability) and individual metrics.
A profit gateway must be achieved before any bonus payments can be made.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year-on-year based on the Company’s 
strategic goals. At least half of any award will be subject to financial measures. Directors’ Report
73
Deferred Share Award (‘DSA’)
Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of short-term strategic and financial objectives which contribute towards long-term 
sustainable growth.
Balance with annual bonus to ensure management remain mindful of long-term consequences of short-term actions.
Awards delivered in shares to provide further alignment with shareholders.
Operation Performance measured over one year , after which award made as conditional shares (or equivalent) deferred for two financial years.
After the year-end, performance is assessed in the round based on the Committee’s judgement of performance achieved.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually in light of the strategic plan.
Dividends (or equivalents) may accrue on shares during the deferral period.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary per annum.
No DSA grants are made unless threshold performance levels are reached, with full vesting requiring outperformance of 
stretch objectives.
Performance details Basket of metrics covering four categories: financial performance, returns to shareholders, relative performance against 
peers and strategic goals.
A profit gateway must be achieved before any awards can be made.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year-on-year based on the Company’s 
strategic goals. At least half of any award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) – Future Builder
Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of Company performance and shareholder value over the longer term.
Share-based to provide greater alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation Awards of conditional share awards (or equivalent) with vesting dependent on performance measured over a period of at 
least three financial years.
To the extent that targets are met, 50 per cent vests following the end of the performance period and 50 per cent is deferred 
for a further year.
The Committee reviews the metrics, targets and weightings prior to each grant to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Recovery provisions apply.
Dividends (or equivalents) may accrue on vested shares.
Opportunity Maximum award of up to 250 per cent of salary per annum under the rules of the plan in respect of any financial year.
Awards structured as core award (up to 62.5 per cent per annum) with a performance multiplier of up to four times.
For performance at threshold levels of performance, up to 25 per cent of maximum under each element may vest. Based on 
the current structure this is equivalent to a multiplier of one times the core award.
Performance details In line with the scope of the approved policy and following a shareholder consultation in 2015, the performance measures 
for 2015 have been updated – see page 66. 
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards vest.
Prior to granting awards, the Committee will review the performance conditions and may opt to vary the metrics and 
weightings to ensure targets and measures remain aligned with the corporate strategy. The Committee would seek to 
consult as appropriate with its major shareholders regarding any material changes.
Shareholding Guidelines 
Purpose and link to strategy Alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Guideline expected to be met within five years of appointment.
Guidelines are: Chief Executive 2.5 times salary, other Executive Directors 1.5 times salary.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors by the Chairman and 
Executive Directors. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fees and are eligible for certain benefits. They are not entitled to any performance-
related pay or pension.
Remuneration
Approach to setting  
remuneration
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract individuals with the 
necessary experience and ability to oversee the business. Fees may be paid in cash or shares.
Typically reviewed annually in September.
Judgement is used but consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market 
positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Where appropriate, benefits may be provided such as private medical cover, annual medical assessment and colleague discount. 
Travel and other reasonable expenses (including any associated taxes) incurred in the course of performing their duties are 
reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
Opportunity Fee opportunity reflects responsibility and time commitment.
Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities such as chairmanship of committees.
The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take account of the individual circumstances 
and benefits provided in comparable roles.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM on 8 July 2015. The Directors 
confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts & Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
Approved by the Board on 5 May 2015. 74
Directors’ Report
Dividends
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.2 pence per 
share (2014: 12.3 pence), making a total dividend for the year of 13.2 pence 
per share (2014: 17.3 pence), a decrease of 23.7 per cent over the previous 
year. Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘ AGM’), the dividend will be paid on 10 July 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 May 2015.
Directors and re-election
At the AGM on 9 July 2014, Justin King stood down from his position as 
Chief Executive and was succeeded by Mike Coupe. On 27 April 2015, we 
announced the appointment of David Keens as a Non-Executive Director with 
effect from 29 April 2015. David will succeed Gary Hughes as the Audit 
Committee Chairman with effect from the 2015 AGM. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE 
companies to stand for election or re-election by shareholders every year. 
Accordingly, all members of the Board, with the exception of David Keens, 
who will stand for election for the first time, and Gary Hughes, who is stepping 
down, will retire and seek re-election at this year’s AGM. Full biographical 
details of all of the current Directors are set out on page 41. 
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 July 2015 at QEII Centre, Broad 
Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am. The Chairman’s letter 
and the Notice of Meeting accompany this report, together with notes 
explaining the business to be transacted at the meeting.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, to 
receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements, approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, elect or re-elect all of the other Directors except Gary 
Hughes, and to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors. In addition, shareholders 
will be asked to renew both the general authority of the Directors to issue 
shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying the 
statutory pre-emption rights. In this regard, the Company will continue to 
adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Group’s Statement of Principles.
Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market 
purchases of its own shares. Shareholders will also be asked to authorise the 
Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days’ notice (where this 
flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in 
the interests of shareholders as a whole). A resolution to renew the authority 
to make ‘political donations’ as defined by Part 14 of 2006 Companies Act 
will also be proposed.
Following the acquisition of Sainsbury’s Bank last year, customer deposits 
with the Bank are currently treated as borrowings under Article 98 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association and therefore limit the borrowing 
headroom which was previously available to the Company and its 
subsidiaries. As a result, at the AGM, the Company will propose a special 
resolution to replace Article 98 with a new Article which, in line with general 
market practice, excludes the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings from the 
limit on borrowings set out in the Article and includes extra clarity around 
what constitutes borrowing. This reflects general market practice in relation 
to the content of articles of association of banks and the fact that those 
investing in, and dealing with, banks are protected by sophisticated 
regulatory safeguards which are more detailed and prescriptive than can be 
included in a set of articles. The limit on borrowing in the new Article will 
remain unchanged at one and one-half times adjusted capital and reserves.
Share capital and control
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 
Companies Act.
Except as described below in relation to the Company’s employee share 
schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the 
Company’s ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company;  
no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard 
to control of the Company; and the Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of 
securities or voting rights. Further details of the rights, restrictions and 
obligations attaching to the share capital of the Company, including voting 
rights, are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. The Articles of 
Association may only be changed with the agreement of shareholders. 
Shares acquired through the Company’s employee share plans rank pari 
passu with shares in issue and have no special rights. Where, under the 
Company’s All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are beneficial 
owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, the voting rights 
are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the 
participants. The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to 
vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which are unallocated. Some of 
the Company’s employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares 
while the shares are held within the plan.
At the AGM held in July 2014, the Company was authorised by shareholders 
to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the 
Articles of Association. The Company made no purchases of its own shares 
during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or 
made subject to a lien or charge.
All of the Company’s employee share plans contain provisions relating to a 
change of control. On a change of control, options and awards granted to 
employees under the Company’s share plans may vest and become 
exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance 
conditions at that time. 
Certain of the Company’s credit facilities and banking arrangements contain 
change of control clauses under which lenders may cancel their 
commitments and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and 
payable. There are no other significant agreements that would take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Ordinary shares
Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are 
shown on page 112. At the date of this report, 1,920,946,556 ordinary shares 
of 28
4
/7 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange.
Major interests in shares
As at 5 May 2015, the Company had been notified by the following investors of 
their interests in three per cent or more of the Company’s shares. These interests 
were notified to the Company pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
% of voting rights
Lord Sainsbury of Turville 3.18
Judith Portrait 3.32
Qatar Holdings LLC 25.10
Proceedings in Egypt
Proceedings have been brought against Mike Coupe in Cairo arising out of a 
sale by J Sainsbury plc in 2001 of its shares in an Egyptian joint venture.  Mike 
was not employed by Sainsbury’s in 2001 and has had no involvement with 
this historic commercial dispute.  The proceedings represent the latest of a 
number of criminal and civil actions against the Company and its employees 
originating from the counterparty to that sale, all the others of which to date 
have been unsuccessful or ultimately withdrawn. The current proceedings 
involve an allegation of fraud arising out of the share sale transaction. 
Despite the fact that no notice of the proceedings were served on him or the 
Company, Mike was convicted in absentia on 1 September 2014.
The Company has been advised by Egyptian counsel that the claims on which 
the conviction was obtained have no merit and that the conviction should be 
overturned. An appeal is currently ongoing on the basis that the allegations 
are wholly spurious.
Other disclosures Directors’ Report
75
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the 
Company are shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 68 and 69. 
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests contains full details of Directors’ 
interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares of the Company.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of 
significance to the Group’s business.
Directors’ indemnities
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent 
permitted by law and the Company’s Articles of Association in respect of all 
losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties 
and responsibilities. The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the 
benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in 
their capacity as Directors of the Company. The Company purchased and 
maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance throughout 2014/15, 
which has been renewed for 2015/16. Neither the indemnities nor the insurance 
provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Employment policies
The Company is committed to an equal opportunities policy for recruitment 
and selection, through training and development, performance reviews and 
promotion through our ‘ A Great Place to Work’ strategy. The Company has 
well developed policies for the fair and equal treatment of all colleagues and 
the employment of disadvantaged persons. During the year, a number of 
training courses have been held to ensure that our policies are understood 
throughout the organisation. We will adapt and retrain colleagues who have 
become disabled during their employment. See page 50 for further 
information on our diversity strategy.
As well as creating jobs we are committed to providing a workplace where 
people feel they are given the right opportunities to succeed in a safe, healthy 
and respectful environment. We know this is important and this is the reason 
why a Great Place to Work is one of our five values. Our 20x20 Sustainability 
Plan includes a number of commitments within the category; for further 
information see our website at http://www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/responsibility/
factsheets/.
Human rights
The Company does not have a specific human rights policy but fairness and 
integrity are an important part of the responsible way we run our business, as 
shown by the values and policies described above and throughout this report. 
In addition, our customers want to be confident that the people who make 
and sell our products are not being exploited, or exposed to unsafe working 
conditions. Our Code of Conduct for Ethical Trade covers the employment 
practices we expect from our suppliers, both in the UK and abroad. As we are 
a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative (‘ETI’), our Code of Conduct 
is consistent with the ETI Base Code and national and international laws. 
For further information on this Code of Conduct see our website at  
http://www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/suppliers/ethical-trading/.
Donations
The Company made no political donations in 2015 (2014: £nil).
See page 23 for details of the Company’s charitable donations.
Essential contracts
Sainsbury’s has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business activities. None of the arrangements is 
individually considered to be essential to the business of Sainsbury’s. 
Taxation
The Company complies with relevant tax laws, regulations and obligations 
regarding the filing of tax returns, payment and collection of tax. Sainsbury’s 
does not undertake any tax planning schemes that seek to use so-called ‘tax 
havens’ for aggressive tax planning and for the purpose of tax avoidance. 
Sainsbury’s aims to develop an open, honest relationship with the tax authorities 
and involve them at an early stage should any complex tax issues arise. 
The taxation policy is reviewed annually by the Board. T ax is a key item  
on the Audit Committee agenda and is discussed quarterly where large or 
complex tax items will feature, together with compliance and key risk 
management updates.
All of Sainsbury’s stores are based in the UK, and all our sales are generated 
here. As such, substantially all (more than 99 per cent) of our taxes are paid 
here. The Group also includes companies based in the following jurisdictions: 
Hong Kong, China, India and Bangladesh – these offices source many of 
our non-food products, and local taxes of £1 million were paid in the year 
(2013/14: £1 million); Isle of Man – our insurance company is based here for 
regulatory reasons, as are many other insurance companies; Ireland, Jersey, 
Guernsey, USA – these companies are all dormant and accordingly do not pay 
any tax. There are also other Group companies that were incorporated in 
Ireland, USA, Jersey and the Cayman Islands that are UK tax resident, 
meaning that all relevant taxes are payable to the UK Government.
Post balance sheet events
Events after the balance sheet are disclosed in note 38 on page 140 of the 
financial statements. 
Financial risk management
The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in note 
28 on pages 117 to 123 to the financial statements.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 1 to 39. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows 
and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 39. The 
Group manages its financing by diversifying funding sources, structuring core 
borrowings with long-term maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of 
standby liquidity. Full details of the Group’s financing arrangements can be 
found in note 20 on pages 109 to 111 to the financial statements. In addition, 
notes 28 and 29 on pages 117 to 129 to the financial statements include 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Management are satisfied that stress tests on the future liquidity of the Group 
do not indicate a going concern risk.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging 
economic outlook. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements which are shown on pages 82 to 140.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware. Each Director 
has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditors are aware of that information. 
Independent auditors
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to be appointed as 
auditors of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
resolutions to appoint them as auditors and to authorise the Directors to 
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM. 
By order of the Board
Tim Fallowfield
Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director
5 May 2015 76
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and 
Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 — make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 — state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
 — prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the 
attention of the Board during the year into account, we are satisfied that the 
Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable.
The Board believes that the disclosures set out on pages 1 to 39, 50, 52 and 75 
of this Annual Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 41, 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 — the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group; and
 — the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report contained in the Annual Report 
and financial statements include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Tim Fallowfield
Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director
5 May 2015 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Directors’ Report Financial Statements
77
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 — J Sainsbury plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 14 March 2015 
and of the Group’s loss and the Group’s and Company’s cash flows for 
the period then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as 
adopted by the European Union;
 — the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
J Sainsbury plc’s financial statements comprise:
 — the Group and Company balance sheets as at 14 March 2015;
 — the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for 
the period then ended;
 — the Group and Company cash flow statements for the period then ended;
 — the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the period 
then ended; and
 — the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements (the ‘ Annual Report’) rather than in the notes 
to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
 — Overall Group materiality: £32 million, which represents five per cent  
of profit before tax adjusted for one-off items. 
Audit scope
 — We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 
three of the Group’s reporting units (J Sainsbury plc, Sainsbury’s 
Supermarkets Limited and Sainsbury’s Bank plc) due to their financial 
significance to the Group or their risk characteristics. 
 — We also performed specific audit procedures on material balances 
and transactions within the property companies, joint ventures and 
insurance company due to the materiality of certain individual 
balances within these entities to the Group financial statements as 
a whole.
 — These reporting units account for 99 per cent of Group revenue and 
98 per cent of Group profit before tax adjusted for one-off items.
Areas of focus
 — Supplier income; 
 — Impairment of pipeline development sites and trading stores;
 — Impairment of loans and advances to Sainsbury’s Bank customers;
 — The IT environment, including IT security; and
 — Valuation of gross pension assets and liabilities.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we 
looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example 
in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. 
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override 
of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of 
bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud.
 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 
‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored 
our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on 
the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the 
results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of J Sainsbury plc  78
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Supplier income 
Refer to the Audit Committee section on pages 53 to 56 and note 2, 
accounting policies, including judgements and estimates in the financial 
statements.
The Group earns material supplier income across three main income streams 
being discounts and supplier incentives linked to individual unit sales, fixed 
amounts and supplier rebates (stated in order of value, highest to lowest). 
This income is recognised as a reduction to the cost of goods purchased and 
is billed by the Group to the relevant supplier. 
Determining whether the Group was entitled to income under these various 
arrangements, whether amounts had been correctly calculated and whether 
they were recorded in the correct period was an area of focus for our audit 
due to the quantum of the amounts recorded against cost of sales under the 
various supplier income arrangements and their significance in relation to the 
result for the period. It is also an area of heightened focus in light of recent 
market coverage. While the recognition of the majority of supplier income 
is mechanical and routine in nature, the amount to be recognised in the 
income statement for elements of supplier income requires management to 
apply judgement based on the contractual terms in place with suppliers and 
estimates of amounts the Group is entitled to where arrangements span the 
financial year-end. 
Discounts and incentives linked to individual unit sales relate to 
supplier income earned (and therefore accrued) each time a unit of a product 
is sold. This income stream involves high volume, lower value arrangements, 
calculated through a mechanical process, and therefore management 
considers there to be no judgement in determining the amount that the 
Group is entitled to. Notwithstanding this, this income is material and we 
therefore primarily focused on the existence of the supplier deals and the 
accuracy of the data used in the calculations of amounts due.
Fixed amounts are agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store 
activity, including promotions, such as utilising specific space. These deals 
vary in length and hence may span a financial year-end. Given the nature 
of these arrangements, income is recorded at the point of billing, which will 
typically be when the deal commences. A cut-off process is performed by 
management at year-end to ensure any income relating to deals that span 
the balance sheet date is recognised in the correct period. Our focus was 
therefore on whether the fixed deal income recognised existed, whether it 
had been recorded at the correct amount and whether income recognised 
was recorded in the appropriate period.
Supplier rebates are received from suppliers when pre-agreed targets 
are achieved. These arrangements are typically negotiated annually. The 
calculation of elements of this income is mechanical in nature as it will 
typically involve a percentage discount on all relevant product purchased 
once predetermined volume targets are reached. Management judgement is 
required when incentive targets span a financial year-end, as management 
must estimate and accrue the income earned as at the balance sheet date 
based on forecast sales over the term of the incentive arrangement. Our 
focus was therefore on whether the supplier rebate income recognised 
existed and whether it had been recorded at the correct amount and in the 
appropriate period.
We tested key system controls, including those used to determine the  
volume of items sold under the terms of a supplier income arrangement.  
We determined that the testing of these controls provided us with audit 
evidence that supplier income had been recorded appropriately and in 
the correct period. Our testing also included checking the computation of 
amounts billed to suppliers. 
We understood and tested the interface between the different systems 
in place over supplier income to satisfy ourselves as to the accuracy and 
integrity of the data. We tested management’s reconciliation of the supplier 
income systems to the income recognised in the general ledger.
On a sample basis, we agreed key deal inputs (such as promotion date, 
product and income per unit sale or total income due) recorded in the 
supplier income systems to individual supplier agreements. We then re-
performed management’s calculations, using the tested inputs, to confirm 
the accuracy of the amounts recognised. 
We performed procedures to identify any significant transactions recorded as 
manual adjustments and obtained evidence to support the recognition and 
timing of those amounts based on the individual supplier agreements. In 
addition, for amounts manually accrued as at the financial year-end (which 
related to fixed amounts and supplier rebates), we sought to agree a sample 
of the income accrued to cash received or reduction in payments made after 
the balance sheet date for settled transactions. For deals that had not been 
settled, we traced these transactions through to the balance sheet control 
accounts, sought to understand from management whether there were any 
issues with the recoverability of the deal income and assessed the ageing of 
the assets recognised on the balance sheet. We also performed procedures 
to satisfy ourselves that amounts were recorded in the correct period, 
agreeing key deal inputs for a sample of fixed amounts and supplier rebates 
recorded in the final period of the financial year and the first two weeks of 
the subsequent financial period to individual supplier agreements to evaluate 
whether income had been recorded in the appropriate period.
We sought to obtain written confirmations from a sample of suppliers to 
confirm individual deals recognised in the financial year and accrued on 
the balance sheet at year-end, reconciling the confirmations received to the 
Group’s financial information. Where no confirmation was forthcoming, we 
performed additional testing of individual deals by tracing these to cash 
settlement. If the individual deal had not been cash settled we agreed the 
deal to an individual supplier agreement, traced the accrued income through 
to the balance sheet, and assessed the ageing of the assets recognised on the 
balance sheet.
We analysed the periodic supplier income recognised and compared this 
amount with the equivalent periods in each of the previous four years to 
identify whether there were any unusual trends in the amounts of supplier 
income recognised in each period. No such items were identified. We also 
analysed trends in supplier income for certain key suppliers and obtained 
explanations and supporting documentation to verify significant period-on-
period or year-on-year movements.
We satisfied ourselves as to the accuracy of management’s disclosures 
of their supplier income and the appropriateness of the associated 
accounting policies. 
Financial Statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Financial Statements
79
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment of pipeline development sites and trading stores 
Refer to notes 2, 3, 11 and 12 in the financial statements.
The Group recognised an impairment charge of £628 million in the financial 
year relating to development pipeline sites and unprofitable and marginally 
profitable trading stores. The development pipeline sites represented those 
which will not be developed due to the sites no longer having the potential to 
achieve an appropriate return on capital.
This was an area of focus in our audit as the calculation of any impairment 
requires management to exercise judgement (described below) in 
determining the recoverable amount of each asset. It is also an area of 
heightened focus in light of current trends in consumer spending patterns in 
the retail sector.
For those assets where recoverable amount has been determined on the basis 
of fair value less costs to dispose (‘FVLCD’), most notably the majority of the 
development pipeline sites, we focused on the significant estimates and 
judgements reflected in the Group’s assessment of expected sales proceeds 
including estimated costs to complete (where applicable), expected future 
rental yields and consideration of alternate use.
For those assets where recoverable amount has been measured on the basis 
of value-in-use, in particular trading stores, we focused on the significant 
estimates and judgements reflected in the Group’s cash flow forecasts 
including sales growth rates and expected changes in operating margins, as 
well as the rate used to discount future cash flows to their present value.
We verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s impairment models 
and agreed relevant inputs to the latest Board approved cash flow projections 
for five years, noting no exceptions. In addition, we reviewed updated cash 
flow forecasts, noting no change in our assessment.
For those assets valued on the basis of FVLCD, we assessed the 
reasonableness of management’s key assumptions, including expected future 
rental yields, through applying our knowledge and experience of property 
valuations and considerations of alternative uses for sites. 
We compared management’s assumptions (as listed in our area of focus) 
with industry and economic forecasts and agreed them to external third 
party information where available, concluding that, based on the evidence 
obtained, management’s assumptions were supportable. 
We discussed with management the viability of key development projects 
and confirmed that the Investment Board, Operating Board and plc Board had 
each approved management’s development plans. 
We evaluated the historical accuracy of management’s estimates of fair value in 
previous impairment assessments by comparing the estimated FVLCD at that 
time with the realised selling prices subsequently obtained, which indicated 
that management’s previous valuations were generally reasonably accurate.
For those assets valued on the basis of value-in-use, we benchmarked key 
market related assumptions in the models, such as future sales growth rates 
for the retail sector, against external data. We independently calculated the 
Group’s Weighted Average Cost of Capital, which drives the discount rate, and 
found management’s calculation of the discount rate to be reasonable.
We confirmed the completeness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the 
financial statements and determined these were adequate.
Impairment of loans and advances to Sainsbury’s Bank customers 
Refer to notes 2 and 17 in the financial statements.
As at 14 March 2015, the gross value of loans and advances to Sainsbury’s 
Bank customers was £3,098 million. As at the balance sheet date, an 
impairment provision of £87 million was recorded against credit cards and 
loan receivables.
Management applies judgement in selecting appropriate assumptions 
in calculating the impairment provisions. These assumptions include 
management’s expectation of the proportion of customers who will default 
on their loans and the level of loss that will be incurred by the Group once a 
customer has defaulted. We focused on the measurement of impairment, 
including the assessment of whether historical experience is appropriate 
when assessing the likelihood of incurred losses in the future, particularly 
given the gradual improvement in economic conditions.
The impairment provision was calculated using statistical modelling for 
portfolios of loans and advances. 
We verified the mathematical accuracy of management’s impairment models 
and confirmed that the methodology applied was in accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement’.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the data from underlying 
systems that were used in the impairment models.
We tested key assumptions used within the models to internal and external 
information. We compared the key assumptions within the models to our 
knowledge of assumptions used in the banking sector and also with historical 
trends within Sainsbury’s Bank, concluding that, based on the evidence 
obtained, management’s conclusions were supportable.
We assessed the completeness of the Bank’s modelling approach based on 
our broader industry knowledge of model methodologies.
Based on the evidence obtained from the work described above, we determined 
that the quantum of impairment recognised as at 14 March 2015 was reasonable.
We confirmed the completeness and adequacy of the related disclosures in 
note 17 of the financial statements, and determined these were adequate.
The IT environment, including IT security 
As with many retailers, the Group’s retailing IT systems are complex. The 
adequacy and effective operation of controls over these systems, including 
the adequacy and appropriateness of IT security and system access controls, 
is critical to the integrity of financial reporting within the Group and to 
the accurate presentation of the Group’s financial statements. Our focus 
was on whether appropriate IT controls were in place to reduce financial 
reporting risk. In respect of IT security and access we focused on whether any 
enhancements had been made to the control environment to reduce the risk 
of unauthorised access to the Group’s IT network.  
In addition, Sainsbury’s Bank is currently transitioning onto a new banking 
platform. In the meantime Sainsbury’s Bank continues to utilise outsourced 
systems and controls. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we 
performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the accounting processes and 
controls and the impact of the outsourcing arrangements on the Bank’s 
financial reporting. Our focus was on whether IT controls remained effective 
under the outsourcing arrangement such that there was no heightened risk 
of error that would impact the financial statements and our audit thereon. 
We held regular meetings with management throughout the year 
to understand developments in the IT environment and inform our 
understanding of changes that had a direct bearing on the Group’s controls 
over financial reporting.
We evaluated the IT general control environment and performed IT 
application testing, including review of the controls over segregation of 
duties within the general ledger system to mitigate the risk of unauthorised 
transactions being posted into the general ledger. 
We performed additional substantive testing over areas in which IT general 
control weaknesses were identified in order to mitigate the risks of material 
misstatement, such as performing additional testing over the employee 
leaver process and testing a sample of amended purchase orders.
In assessing the controls at Sainsbury’s Bank, we considered the control 
environment in place at the Bank’s main outsourced service provider to 
the extent relevant for our audit. The Bank relies on this provider for key 
IT systems and controls. Our assessment involved obtaining and reading 
the relevant controls report, issued by the external auditors of the provider 
in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work, 
to gain an understanding of the service provider’s control environment. 
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine 
the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.  80
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Valuation of gross pension assets and liabilities 
See notes 2 and 30 in the financial statements. 
As at 14 March 2015, the Group has a net defined benefit pension obligation 
of £692 million, with gross assets of £7,680 million and gross liabilities of 
£6,988 million. These gross balances are material in the context of the overall 
balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining 
appropriate assumptions. In particular we focused on inflation levels, 
discount rates and mortality rates. Movements in these assumptions can 
have a material impact on the determination of the liability. Management 
uses external actuaries to assist in determining these assumptions and in 
valuing the gross assets and liabilities within the pension plan. Judgement is 
also required in the measurement of the fair value of certain pension assets 
and for this reason we focused on assets that have been valued based on 
unobservable inputs. 
We used our actuarial experience to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions 
used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including inflation and 
mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with relevant national and 
industry benchmarks. We also verified that the discount and inflation rates 
used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent with our 
internally developed benchmarks and with other companies reporting as at 
March 2015.
For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of ownership 
and valuations of pension assets. We also obtained the valuation models 
for those assets with unobservable inputs and tested the underlying 
assumptions against our own, internally developed data and satisfied 
ourselves that the valuations were reasonable. 
Financial Statements 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work 
to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking 
into account the structure of the Group, the systems, accounting processes 
and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group’s businesses are organised into three operating segments, being 
retailing, financial services and property investments, as defined in note 4 to 
the financial statements. Each of these operating segments include a number 
of reporting units, which together form the consolidated financial statements, 
comprising: the Group’s retailing and financial services businesses (Sainsbury’s 
Supermarkets Limited and Sainsbury’s Bank plc, the “Bank”), centralised 
functions (including J Sainsbury plc), property companies and joint ventures.
We determined that we needed to perform an audit of the complete financial 
information of three reporting units (J Sainsbury plc, Sainsbury’s 
Supermarkets Limited and Sainsbury’s Bank plc) due to their financial 
significance to the Group financial statements or their risk characteristics.
We also performed specific audit procedures on material balances and 
transactions within the property companies, joint ventures (including BL 
Sainsbury’s Superstore Limited) and the insurance company (JS Insurance 
Limited) due to the materiality of certain individual balances within these 
entities to the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team at the head office perform all aspects of the 
audit except for the work on Sainsbury’s Bank plc, BL Sainsbury’s Superstore 
Limited and JS Insurance Limited. The Group engagement team reviewed the 
reporting received from each of these component audit teams, and for the 
audit of the Bank specifically, met with the Bank audit team to discuss their 
findings and directly attended both the Bank audit clearance meeting and 
the year-end Bank Audit Committee meeting. 
T aken together, the reporting units and functions where we performed our 
audit work accounted for 99 per cent of Group revenues and 98 per cent of 
Group profit before tax and our audit procedures thereon, together with 
additional procedures performed at the Group level, including audit of the 
consolidation process and consolidation journals, gave us the evidence that 
we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with 
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole.
 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the 
financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group 
materiality
£32 million (2014: £40 million).
How we 
determined it
Five per cent of profit before tax adjusted for one-off 
items.
Rationale for 
benchmark 
applied
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for one-
off items as defined in note 3 on page 95, is the key 
measure used by the shareholders in assessing the 
Group’s performance. Adjusting for one-off items also 
provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for 
determining materiality by eliminating the volatility  
that is inherent in one-off items. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £3 million (2014: £3 million) 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set 
out on page 75, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is 
appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis 
of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and 
Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. Financial Statements
81
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual Report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
 — the statement given by the Directors on page 76, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the 
Group’s and Company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
 — the section of the Annual Report on page 55, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the 
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations 
received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 — the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with ten 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review.
 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out 
on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
 
 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
 — whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
 — the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and
 — the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ 
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis 
for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the 
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Richard Hughes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
5 May 2015 82
Group income statement
for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 4 23,775 23,949
Cost of sales (22,567) (22,562)
Gross profit 1,208 1,387
Administrative expenses (1,132) (444)
Other income 5 66
Operating profit 5 81 1,009
Finance income 6 19 20
Finance costs 6 (180) (159)
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates 14 8 28
(Loss)/profit before tax (72) 898
 
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before tax 681 798
Profit on disposal of properties 3 7 52
Investment property fair value movements 3 7 –
Retail financing fair value movements 3 (30) (8)
IAS 19 pension financing charge 3 (31) (23)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 3 (6) (7)
Acquisition adjustments 3 13 18
One-off items 3 (713) 68
(72) 898
 
Income tax expense 8 (94) (182)
 
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (166) 716
(Loss)/earnings per share 9 pence pence
Basic (8.7) 37.7
Diluted (8.7) 36.9
Underlying basic 26.4 32.8
Underlying diluted 25.7 32.2
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Financial Statements  Financial Statements
83
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Note
2015 
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (166) 716
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes 30b (19) (326)
Current tax relating to items not reclassified 8 6 34
Deferred tax relating to items not reclassified 8 (1) 19
(14) (273)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Currency translation differences 24 3 (2)
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements
 Group (39) 34
Items reclassified from available-for-sale assets reserve 24 1 –
Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements
 Group 24 (13) (43)
 Joint ventures and associates 24 3 2
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 24 21 4
Current tax relating to items that may be reclassified 8 – (1)
Deferred tax relating to items that may be reclassified 8 9 (2)
(15) (8)
Total other comprehensive loss for the financial year (net of tax) (29) (281)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial year (195) 435
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements. 84
Group Company
Note
2015 
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 9,648 9,880 1 16
Intangible assets 12 325 286 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 13 – – 7,630 7,562
Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 359 404 18 6
Available-for-sale financial assets 15 184 255 37 37
Other receivables 17a 83 26 1,363 1,229
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers 17b 1,412 1,292 – –
Derivative financial instruments 29 21 28 33 23
12,032 12,171 9,082 8,873
Current assets
Inventories 16 997 1,005 – –
Trade and other receivables 17a 471 433 1,399 1,428
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers 17b 1,599 1,283 – –
Derivative financial instruments 29 69 49 44 48
Cash and bank balances 26b 1,285 1,592 92 136
 4,421 4,362 1,535 1,612
Non-current assets held for sale 18 84 7 15 –
4,505 4,369 1,550 1,612
Total assets 16,537 16,540 10,632 10,485
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19a (2,961) (2,692) (4,422) (4,457)
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks 19b (3,395) (3,245) – –
Borrowings 20 (260) (534) (87) (341)
Derivative financial instruments 29 (75) (65) (57) (47)
T axes payable (188) (189) (21) –
Provisions 22 (44) (40) (2) (2)
 (6,923) (6,765) (4,589) (4,847)
Net current liabilities (2,418) (2,396) (3,039) (3,235)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 19a (265) (204) (798) (863)
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks 19b (266) (302) – –
Borrowings 20 (2,506) (2,250) (764) (394)
Derivative financial instruments 29 (38) (21) (18) (10)
Deferred income tax liability 21 (215) (227) – –
Provisions 22 (77) (29) (2) (2)
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (708) (737) – –
 (4,075) (3,770) (1,582) (1,269)
Net assets 5,539 6,005 4,461 4,369
Equity
Called up share capital 23 548 545 548 545
Share premium account 23 1,108 1,091 1,108 1,091
Capital redemption reserve 24 680 680 680 680
Other reserves 24 146 127 40 7
Retained earnings 25 3,057 3,560 2,085 2,046
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 5,539 6,003 4,461 4,369
Non-controlling interests – 2 – –
Total equity 5,539 6,005 4,461 4,369
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 82 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 May 2015, and are signed on its behalf by:
Mike Coupe Chief Executive
John Rogers Chief Financial Officer
Balance sheets
At 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014
Financial Statements  Financial Statements
85
Group Company
  Note 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 26a 1,136 1,227 (492) 38
Interest paid (134) (148) (74) (73)
Corporation tax paid (91) (140) – –
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 911 939 (566) (35)
  
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (951) (916) – –
Purchase of intangible assets   (78) (13) – –
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment   40 335 – –
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (6) 1,016 – (243)
Increase in loans to joint ventures – (7) – –
Investment in joint ventures (12) (13) (12) –
Investment in subsidiaries – – (59) (20)
Disposal of subsidiaries – – 450 –
Proceeds from repayment of loan to joint venture 17 4 – –
Interest received   20 20 44 50
Dividends and distributions received 70 – 252 250
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities   (900) 426 675 37
  
Cash flows from financing activities  
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares   19 19 19 18
Proceeds from short-term borrowings – 200 – 200
Repayment of short-term borrowings (381) (200) (336) (200)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 674 250 644 200
Repayment of long-term borrowings (240) (206) (143) (122)
Purchase of own shares   (18) – – –
Repayment of capital element of obligations under finance lease payments (29) (25) – –
Interest elements of obligations under finance lease payments   (9) (8) – –
Dividends paid 10 (330) (320) (330) (320)
Net cash used in financing activities   (314) (290) (146) (224)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (303) 1,075 (37) (222)
Net opening cash and cash equivalents   1,579 504 129 351
Closing cash and cash equivalents  26b 1,276 1,579 92 129
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Cash flow statements
for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 86
  Note
Called up 
share capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Capital 
redemption 
and other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total equity
£m
At 16 March 2014 545 1,091 807 3,560 6,003 2 6,005
Loss for the year 25 – – – (166) (166) – (166)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:
Currency translation differences 24 – – 3 – 3 – 3
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension 
schemes (net of tax)
25 – – – (14) (14) – (14)
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value 
movements (net of tax):
 Group 24 – – (30) – (30) – (30)
Items reclassified from available-for-sale financial 
asset reserve
24 – – 1 – 1 – 1
Cash flow hedges effective portion of changes in 
fair value (net of tax):
 Group 24 – – (13) – (13) – (13)
 Joint ventures 24 – – 3 – 3 – 3
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 24 – – 21 – 21 – 21
Total comprehensive loss for the year ended 
14 March 2015
– – (15) (180) (195) – (195)
Transactions with owners:
 Dividends paid 10,25 – – – (330) (330) – (330)
 Convertible bond – equity component 24 – – 39 – 39 – 39
 Amortisation of convertible bond – equity  
 component
24,25 – – (5) 5 – – –
 Share-based payment (net of tax) 25 – – – 21 21 – 21
 Purchase of own shares 25 – – – (18) (18) – (18)
 Shares vested 25 – – – 9 9 – 9
 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 23,25 3 17 – (12) 8 – 8
 Purchase of non-controlling interest 25 – – – 2 2 (2) –
At 14 March 2015 548 1,108 826 3,057 5,539 – 5,539
At 17 March 2013 541 1,075 820 3,401 5,837 1 5,838
Profit for the year 25 – – – 716 716 – 716
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:
Currency translation differences 24 – – (2) – (2) – (2)
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension 
schemes (net of tax)
25 – – – (273) (273) – (273)
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value 
movements (net of tax):
 Group 24 – – 31 – 31 – 31
Cash flow hedges effective portion of changes in 
fair value (net of tax):
 Group 24 – – (43) – (43) – (43)
 Joint ventures 24 – – 2 – 2 – 2
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 24 – – 4 – 4 – 4
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the 
year ended 15 March 2014
– – (8) 443 435 – 435
Transactions with owners:
 Dividends paid 10,25 – – – (320) (320) – (320)
 Amortisation of convertible bond – equity  
 component
24,25 – – (5) 5 – – –
 Share-based payment (net of tax) 25 – – – 31 31 – 31
 Shares issued – – – – – 1 1
 Shares vested 25 – – – 12 12 – 12
 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 23,25 4 16 – (12) 8 – 8
At 15 March 2014 545 1,091 807 3,560 6,003 2 6,005
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Group statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Financial Statements  Financial Statements
87
  Note
Called up 
share capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Capital 
redemption 
and other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total equity
£m
At 16 March 2014 545 1,091 687 2,046 4,369
Profit for the year 25 – – – 344 344
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:
 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements (net of tax) 24 – – 2 – 2
 Cash flow hedges effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) 24 – – (5) – (5)
 Items reclassified to cash flow hedge reserve 24 – – 2 – 2
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year ended 14 March 2015 – – (1) 344 343
Transactions with owners:
 Dividends paid 10,25 – – – (330) (330)
 Convertible bond – equity component 24 – – 39 – 39
 Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component 24,25 – – (5) 5 –
 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 23,25 3 17 – 21 41
 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 25 – – – (1) (1)
At 14 March 2015 548 1,108 720 2,085 4,461
At 17 March 2013 541 1,075 691 1,952 4,259
Profit for the year 25 – – – 378 378
Other comprehensive income:
 Items reclassified to cash flow hedge reserve – – 1 – 1
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 15 March 2014 – – 1 378 379
Transactions with owners:
 Dividends paid 10,25 – – – (320) (320)
 Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component 24,25 – – (5) 5 –
 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 23,25 4 16 – 33 53
 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 25 – – – (2) (2)
At 15 March 2014 545 1,091 687 2,046 4,369
The notes on pages 88 to 140 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Company statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 88
Financial Statements 
1 General information
J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company (the ‘Company’) incorporated in 
the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock 
Exchange. The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its 
registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT , United Kingdom.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 (prior financial 
year 52 weeks to 15 March 2014). The consolidated financial statements for 
the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 comprise the financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) and the Group’s share of the 
post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates. 
The Group’s principal activities are grocery related retailing and retail banking.
 
2 Accounting policies
(a) Statement of compliance
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRIC’) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. The Company’s financial 
statements have been prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by 
Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or 
statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
(b) Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest 
million (‘£m’) unless otherwise stated. They have been prepared on a going 
concern basis under the historical cost convention, except for derivative 
financial instruments, investment properties and available-for-sale financial 
assets that have been measured at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires 
the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from 
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The areas involving 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2c.
In the prior year the Group acquired 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital 
of Sainsbury’s Bank. The acquisition accounting was on a provisional basis and 
has been finalised in the current financial year with no adjustment required. 
Amendments to published standards
Effective for the Group and Company in these financial 
statements:
The Group and Company has considered the following new standards, 
interpretations and amendments to published standards that are effective 
for the Group and Company for the financial year beginning 16 March 2014: 
 — IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’
 — IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’
 — IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’
 — IAS 27 (revised 2011), ‘Separate financial statements’
 — IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘ Associates and joint ventures’
 — Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12, on transition guidance
 — Amendment to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’, on recoverable amount 
disclosures
 — Amendments to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’, on financial 
instruments asset and liability offsetting
 — Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and 
measurement’, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting
 — IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’
The Group and Company has concluded that the above new standards, 
interpretations and amendments are either not relevant to the Group and 
Company or that they do not have a significant impact on the Group and 
Company’s financial statements, apart from additional disclosure. 
There are no standards or revisions effective for the Group and Company for 
the financial year beginning 15 March 2015. 
The following standards and revisions will be effective for future 
periods:
 — IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ 
 — IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ 
 — Amendment to IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’, on acquisition of an interest 
in a joint operation
 — Amendment to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38, 
‘Intangible assets’, on depreciation and amortisation 
 — Amendment to IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, on general hedge accounting 
 — Amendments to IAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’, on equity accounting 
 — Amendments to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’, and IAS 28, 
‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ on sale or contribution 
of assets 
 — Annual Improvements 2012 
 — Annual Improvements 2013
The Bank is currently implementing a project to assess the impact of IFRS 9 
and implement systems to ensure ongoing compliance with its requirements. 
The most significant impact on the Bank is likely to be in relation to impairment 
methodology as a result of the move to the expected credit loss model.
The Group and Company has considered the impact of the remaining above 
standards and revisions and has concluded that they will not have a 
significant impact on the Group and Company’s financial statements, apart 
from additional disclosures. The accounting policies set out below have been 
applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements by 
the Group and the Company. 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group 
has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has 
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The results of 
subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition 
or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal. Intercompany 
transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated upon 
consolidation. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss in the 
financial statements of the Company. 
Notes to the financial statements Financial Statements
89
2 Accounting policies continued
Business combinations
The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and 
the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree identifiable net assets. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the 
acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to 
fair value at the acquisition date through the income statement. 
Joint ventures and associates
The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements. Under IFRS 11 
investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or 
joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each 
investor. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and 
determined them to be joint ventures. The Group’s share of the post-tax 
results of its joint ventures and associates is included in the income 
statement using the equity method of accounting. Where the Group transacts 
with a joint venture or associate, profits and losses are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the joint venture or associate.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group balance 
sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets 
of the entity, less any provision for impairment. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Company 
balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment. 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not 
control.
Investment properties held by the Group are those contained within its joint 
ventures with Land Securities Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC. 
These are properties held for capital appreciation and/or to earn rental 
income. They are initially measured at cost, including related transaction 
costs. After initial recognition at cost, they are carried at their fair values 
based on market value determined by professional valuers at each reporting 
date. The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the 
reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included 
within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in order 
to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance 
of the Group’s ongoing business for shareholders. 
In the prior financial year, Sainsbury’s Bank was accounted for as a 50 per 
cent owned joint venture for the 46 weeks to 31 January 2014 and 
consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to 
28 February 2014, as detailed in note 13. In the current financial year, 
Sainsbury’s Bank is consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for 
the 12 months to 28 February 2015. 
Revenue
Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and, in the case of Sainsbury’s 
Bank, interest receivable, fees and commissions and excludes Value Added T ax. 
Sale of goods – retail
Sales through retail outlets are shown net of returns, the cost of Nectar reward 
points issued and redeemed, colleague discounts, vouchers and sales made 
on an agency basis. Commission income is recognised in revenue based on 
the terms of the contract.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and 
services have been passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably.
The cost of Nectar points is treated as a deduction from sales and part of the 
fair value of the consideration received is deferred and subsequently 
recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed. The fair value of the 
points awarded is determined with reference to the fair value to the customer.
Interest receivable
Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all instruments 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. This 
calculation takes into account interest receivable or payable and fees and 
commissions receivable or payable that are integral to the yield, as well as 
incremental transaction costs. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
discounts the expected future cash flows over the expected life of the 
financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or 
liability at initial recognition. 
Sainsbury’s Bank fees and commissions
Fees and commissions, that are not integral to the effective interest rate 
calculation, are recognised in the income statement as services are provided. 
In the case of insurance commissions the income comprises an initial 
commission and profit share, both of which are recognised on completion of 
the service to the extent reliably measurable. Where there is a risk of potential 
claw back, an appropriate element of the commission receivable is deferred 
and amortised over the life of the underlying loan or period of claw back. Car 
insurance initial commission is recognised on completion of the service 
provided, with an element deferred to reflect cancellation expectation and 
services yet to be performed in future periods.
Finance income and costs
Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement for 
financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. This calculation takes into account interest receivable or 
payable and fees and commissions receivable or payable that are integral to 
the yield, as well as incremental transaction costs. For Sainsbury’s Bank, 
finance cost on financial liabilities is determined using the effective interest 
method and is recognised in cost of sales. 
Interest paid and interest received for the purpose of the cash flow statement 
is retail only. 
Cost of sales
Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including warehouse and 
transportation costs and all the costs of operating retail outlets and, in the 
case of Sainsbury’s Bank, interest expense on operating activities, calculated 
using the effective interest method. 
Supplier income
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as ‘supplier 
income’, are recognised within cost of sales on an accruals basis as they 
are earned for each relevant supplier contract. The accrued value at the 
reporting date is included in trade receivables or trade payables, depending 
on the right of offset.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
90
2 Accounting policies continued
The most common types of supplier income, in order of magnitude, which 
Sainsbury’s receives, are:
 — Discounts and supplier incentives, representing the majority of all supplier 
income, linked to individual unit sales. The incentive is typically based on 
an agreed sum per item sold on promotion for a period. 
 — Fixed amounts agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store activity 
including promotions, such as utilising specific space. 
 — Supplier rebates are the smallest proportion of supplier income. These are 
typically agreed on an annual basis, aligned with the financial year and 
are earned based on pre-agreed targets, mainly linked to sales. 
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
recognised provision for impairment. Capital work in progress is held at cost 
less any recognised provision for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs incurred attributable to bringing the 
asset to its working condition for intended use. This includes capitalised 
borrowing costs.
Fixtures and equipment
Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the 
asset to its working condition and its intended use. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual 
values, on a straight-line basis, on the following bases:
 — Freehold buildings and leasehold properties – 50 years, or the lease term 
if shorter
 — Fixtures, equipment and vehicles – three to 15 years 
 — Freehold land is not depreciated
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds less any 
associated costs of disposal with the asset’s carrying amount and are 
recognised within operating profit. The assets’ residual values and useful lives 
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. 
Intangible assets
Computer software 
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
provision for impairment. Externally acquired computer software and 
software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their useful economic lives of five to ten years. Costs relating to development 
of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the recognition 
criteria of IAS 38, ‘Intangible Assets’ are met. Other development expenditures 
that do not meet these criteria are expensed as incurred. When the software 
is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years within 
administrative expenses. 
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration of an 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is 
recognised as an asset on the Group’s balance sheet in the year in which it 
arises, and is considered to have an indefinite useful life. Goodwill is tested 
for impairment annually and again whenever indicators of impairment are 
detected and is carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
Acquired intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair 
value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets with finite useful economic 
lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for 
impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful economic lives, ranging from three to six years, within administrative 
expenses. 
Other intangible assets
Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any 
recognised provision for impairment and amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the licence period of up to 15 years within cost of sales.
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
any provision for impairment. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their contractual useful economic lives within cost of sales.
Impairment of non-financial assets 
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, being the 
higher of its fair value less costs to dispose and its value in use, is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) to which 
the asset belongs. For retail property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store or store 
pipeline development site. For retail goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each 
retail chain of stores acquired. Sainsbury’s Bank is a separate CGU, and 
non-store assets, including depots and IT assets, are reviewed separately. 
Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the year in 
which it occurs. Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss 
on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, 
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, or its original carrying value less notional accumulated 
depreciation if lower. 
Capitalisation of interest
Interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction 
of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross of tax relief.
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the 
lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to dispose. Non-current 
assets held for sale are not depreciated.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to 
be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available-for-sale in its present condition. A sale 
should be expected to complete within one year from the date of classification. 
Leased assets
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases. For property leases, the land and 
building elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease 
classification. Financial Statements
91
2 Accounting policies continued
Finance leases
Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and 
equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease 
term, whichever is shorter. The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair 
value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments 
during the lease term at the inception of the lease. The resulting lease 
obligations are included in liabilities net of finance charges. Finance costs 
on finance leases are charged directly to the income statement.
Operating leases
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet. 
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Sale and leaseback
A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and 
immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with the 
buyer. The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the 
substance of the transaction and whether or not the sale was made at the 
asset’s fair value. 
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the sale is 
deferred and amortised over the lease term. For sale and operating leasebacks, 
generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss 
from the sale is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those 
principles described above.
Lease incentives
Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rent-free 
periods. Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of the 
lease term.
Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases
The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental increases. 
These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease.
Operating lease income
Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant agreements and 
is recognised as earned on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in the 
course of, development and are valued on a weighted average cost basis and 
carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion 
and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Cost includes 
all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in 
bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and bank balances in the Group balance sheet comprise cash in hand 
and at bank, deposits at central banks, investments in money market funds 
and deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of 
the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement. 
Current tax
Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. Current tax is charged or credited to the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged to equity or other 
comprehensive income, in which case the current tax is also dealt with in 
equity or other comprehensive income respectively. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising 
from differences between the tax base and accounting base of assets 
and liabilities.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the extent 
where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, 
affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit. It is determined using tax 
rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can 
be utilised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it 
relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive 
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other 
comprehensive income respectively.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures except where the 
Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and where the 
amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured 
at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the 
obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase 
in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense. 
Onerous leases
The need for provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental 
income, is assessed when the leased property becomes vacant and is no 
longer used in the operations of the business or when the leased property 
relates to an unprofitable trading store. Onerous lease provisions are 
recognised after any impairment of assets. Provisions for dilapidation costs 
are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
 
Onerous contracts
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised where expected cash outflows 
exceed the anticipated future benefits. The amounts provided are based on 
the Group’s best estimate of the likely committed outflow net of anticipated 
future benefits and after any impairment of pipeline development site assets 
where applicable.
Restructuring
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed 
formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those 
affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan 
or announcing its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of a 
restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the 
restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by 
the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
92
2 Accounting policies continued
Employee benefits
Pensions
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution pension 
schemes for its employees. A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that 
defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement. A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which 
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the pension scheme 
surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference 
between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation 
is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit 
method. Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The income statement charge consists of a financing charge, which is the 
net of interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and interest income on plan 
assets and defined benefit pension scheme expenses. The financing charge 
is determined by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined 
benefit obligation to the pension scheme liabilities and plan assets at the 
beginning of the financial year.
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an 
expense as they fall due. Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date 
are included as an accrual as at that date. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
Long service awards
The costs of long service awards are accrued over the period the service is 
provided by the employee when it is probable that settlement will be required 
and they are capable of being measured reliably. Liabilities recognised in 
respect of long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of 
the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group in respect of 
services provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Share-based payments 
The Group provides benefits to employees (including Directors) of the 
Group in the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares, 
rights over shares or the value of those shares in cash terms.
For equity-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee 
services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares 
awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions. All share options are valued using an option-pricing model 
(Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo). This fair value is charged to the income 
statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme. 
For cash-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee 
services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the charge 
recognised through the income statement over the vesting period of the 
share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding increase in accruals. 
The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the 
remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels of options 
vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in equity and accruals.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the 
employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by 
reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as 
an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding 
credit to equity. 
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Foreign currencies
Foreign operations
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated 
into sterling at year-end exchange rates. The results of foreign operations 
are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year. 
The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at 
the exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on 
translation are recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair 
value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL ’), loans and receivables, and available-for-
sale (‘ AFS’). AFS investments are initially measured at fair value including 
transaction costs. Financial assets held at FVTPL are initially recognised at 
fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading and those 
designated at FVTPL at inception. Derivatives are classified as held for trading 
unless they are accounted for as an effective hedging instrument. Financial 
assets at FVTPL are recorded at fair value, with any fair value gains or losses 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. The Group 
has no intention of trading these loans and receivables. They include 
amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers and amounts due from other 
banks. Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, 
these assets are carried at amortised cost less impairment using the effective 
interest method. Income from these financial assets is calculated on an 
effective yield basis and is recognised in the income statement.
AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this 
category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in 
non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment 
within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Subsequent to initial recognition 
at fair value plus transaction costs, these assets are recorded at fair value with 
the movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income until 
the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is 
recognised in the income statement. Dividends on AFS equity instruments 
are recognised in the income statement when the entity’s right to receive 
payment is established. Interest on AFS debt instruments is recognised using 
the effective interest method. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows 
from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision 
for impairment. Financial Statements
93
2 Accounting policies continued
Loans and advances including impairment 
Loans and advances are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment and recognised on the balance sheet 
when cash is advanced.
For Sainsbury’s Bank’s portfolios of loans, such as credit card lending and 
personal loans, impairment provisions are calculated for groups of assets, 
otherwise impairment is identified at a counterparty specific level following 
objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired. Such evidence may 
include a missed interest or principal payment or the breach of a banking 
covenant. The present value of estimated cash flows recoverable is determined 
after taking into account any security held. The amount of impairment is 
calculated by comparing the present value of the cash flows discounted at 
the loans’ original effective interest rate with the balance sheet carrying value. 
If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted and the difference charged to the 
income statement and a provision recognised in the balance sheet.
The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded back to its net 
realisable balance over time using an effective interest rate. This is reported 
through interest receivable within the income statement and represents the 
unwinding of the discount. 
A write-off is made when all or part of a claim is deemed uncollectible or 
forgiven. Write-offs are charged against previously established provisions for 
impairment or directly to the income statement. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts written off decrease the charge for loan impairment in the income 
statement.
An allowance for impairment losses is also maintained in respect of assets 
which are impaired at the balance sheet date but which have not been 
identified as such, based on historical loss experience and other relevant 
factors. The methodology and assumptions used are regularly reviewed to 
reduce any differences between estimates and actual results.
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts, other deposits and amounts due to 
Sainsbury’s Bank customers are recorded initially at fair value, which is 
generally the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Subsequently, these 
liabilities are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income 
statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying 
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period 
in which they arise.
The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined 
using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond. 
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until 
extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The remainder of 
the proceeds are allocated to the conversion option. This is recognised 
and included in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects, and is 
not subsequently re-measured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity components 
of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at the date of issue. 
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
 
Impairment of financial assets
An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment is 
carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets at the balance 
sheet date. This assessment may be of individual assets (‘individual 
impairment’) or of a portfolio of assets (‘collective impairment’). A financial 
asset or a group of financial assets is considered to be impaired if, and only if, 
there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events 
that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that 
loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. 
For individual impairment the principal loss event is one or more missed 
payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, 
including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual payments, 
fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators. An assessment 
of collective impairment will be made of financial assets with similar risk 
characteristics. For these assets, portfolio loss experience is used to provide 
objective evidence of impairment.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on loans and 
receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the carrying value of 
financial assets to the present value of estimated future cash flows 
discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income 
statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made, together 
with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant 
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered 
in determining whether the asset is impaired. If any such evidence exists for 
available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss is removed from equity 
and recognised in the income statement. The cumulative loss is measured as 
the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less 
any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the 
income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity 
instruments are not reversed. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a 
debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can 
be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was 
recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through 
the income statement.
Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the written 
down balance. Interest is calculated using the rate of interest used to discount 
the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. 
To the extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in subsequent 
periods, the recognition of interest will be based on the latest balance net of 
provision.
Fair value estimation
The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values of 
financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 29. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
All derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the 
contract date and are also measured at fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the derivative 
financial instruments hedge the exchange rate risk of future highly probable 
inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency. Changes in the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as 
hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast 
transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, 
at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
94
2 Accounting policies continued
Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the derivative 
financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value of a financial asset  
or liability due to movements in interest rates. The changes in fair value of  
the hedging instrument are recognised in the income statement.
The hedged item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the 
hedged risk, with the corresponding adjustment made in the income statement.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents, at the inception of the 
hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the relationship between the 
hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction and the nature of  
the risks being hedged. The Group also documents the assessment of the 
effectiveness of the hedging relationship, to show that the hedge has been 
and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as 
finance income or costs as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or  
is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until the 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive 
income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
 
Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported  
in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset  
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis,  
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally 
enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be 
enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, 
insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
(c) Judgements and estimates
The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that 
impact the application of policies and reported amounts. The resulting 
accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions 
will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on 
historical experience and expectations of future events. 
The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements  
are discussed below. 
Goodwill impairment
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment 
loss, based on the recoverable amount of the CGU or group of CGUs to which  
it is allocated. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined 
based on value in use calculations and these calculations require the use of 
estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as 
disclosed in note 12. Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates. 
Impairment of assets other than goodwill
Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews based 
on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their 
recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value. Recoverable 
amount is based on the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs  
to dispose. Value in use is calculated from expected future cash flows using 
suitable discount rates and includes management assumptions and 
estimates of future performance as disclosed in note 11. 
Impairment loss calculations on loans and advances within Sainsbury’s Bank 
(note 17(b)) involve the estimation of future cash flows of financial assets, 
based on observable data at the balance sheet date and historical loss 
experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. This will typically 
take into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience and 
default levels. These calculations are undertaken on a portfolio basis using 
various statistical modelling techniques. 
Impairment models are continually reviewed to ensure data and assumptions 
are appropriate with the most material assumption being around expected 
loss rates. The accuracy of any such impairment calculation will be affected 
by unexpected changes to the economic situation, and assumptions which 
differ from actual outcomes. As such, judgement is applied when determining 
the levels of provisioning. 
Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees. The present 
value of the scheme’s liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date and the 
net financing charge recognised in the income statement are dependent on 
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds. Other key assumptions within 
this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, 
including mortality rates, as set out in note 30. Any changes to assumptions 
used will impact the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.  
As detailed in note 30, the retirement benefit obligations are most sensitive 
to changes in the discount rate.
Provisions
Provisions have been made for onerous leases, onerous contracts, 
dilapidations, restructuring and long service awards. These provisions are 
estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent 
on future events and market conditions. Any difference between expectations 
and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such 
determination is made. The carrying amount of provisions will be impacted 
by changes in the discount rate. Details of provisions are set out in note 22.
Income taxes
The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation of 
the likely taxes due, which requires significant judgement as to the ultimate 
tax determination of certain items. Where the actual liability arising from 
these issues differs from these estimates, such differences will have an 
impact on income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period when such 
determination is made. Detail of the tax charge and deferred tax are set out 
in notes 8 and 21 respectively.
Supplier income
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as ‘supplier 
income’, represent a material deduction to cost of sales and directly affect the 
Group’s reported margin. The supplier arrangements resulting in this supplier 
income can be complex, with income spanning multiple products over 
different time periods, and there can be multiple triggers and discounts. 
The three key types are explained in the cost of sales accounting policy on 
pages 89 and 90, and the level of judgement and estimation involved is 
considered below:
 — Discounts and incentives linked to individual unit sales are calculated 
through a mechanical process with no judgement and estimation involved 
in recording the income received, which is collected in a timely manner 
throughout the period. 
 — Arrangements for fixed amounts involve a degree of judgement and 
estimation in ensuring the appropriate cut-off of arrangements for fixed 
amounts which span period-end. These require judgement to determine 
when the terms of the arrangement are satisfied and that amounts are 
recognised in the correct period. 
 — Supplier rebates, which are agreed with a supplier on an annual basis, 
require estimates of the income earned up to the balance sheet date, 
for each relevant supplier contract. Where agreements span a financial 
period-end, estimations are required of projected turnover and judgement 
may also need to be applied to determine the rebate level earned as 
agreements may involve multiple tiers. In order to minimise any risk 
arising from estimation, supplier confirmations are obtained to agree the 
value to be recognised at year-end, prior to it being invoiced. Rebates 
represent the smallest element of Sainsbury’s supplier income and by 
aligning the agreements to Sainsbury’s financial year, where possible the 
judgements required are minimised. Financial Statements
95
3 Non-GAAP performance measures
Certain items recognised in reported loss or profit before tax can vary significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported earnings which 
does not reflect the Group’s underlying performance. Similarly, whilst defined benefit pension scheme expenses may not vary significantly, they no longer 
relate to the Group’s ongoing activities given the closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual. The Directors believe that the ‘underlying 
revenue’, ‘underlying profit before tax’ (‘UPBT’) and ‘underlying diluted and basic earnings per share’ measures presented provide a clear and consistent 
presentation of the underlying performance of Sainsbury’s ongoing business for shareholders. Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not 
be directly comparable with the ‘adjusted’ profit measures of other companies. 
The adjusted items are:
 — Profit/(loss) on disposal of properties; 
 — Investment property fair value movements – these reflect the difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its 
carrying amount at the previous reporting date;
 — Retail financing fair value movements – these are fair value gains and losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost, 
on derivatives relating to financing activities and on hedged items in fair value hedges;
 — Impairment of goodwill;
 — The financing element of IAS 19;
 — Defined benefit pension scheme expenses;
 — Acquisition adjustments – these reflect the adjustments arising from the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition including the fair value unwind, amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and, in the prior year, the remeasurement of the previously held equity interest in Sainsbury’s Bank; and
 — One-off items – these are items which are material and infrequent in nature and do not relate to the Group’s underlying performance.
The adjustments made to reported (loss)/profit before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying profit before tax 681 798
Profit on disposal of properties
1
7 52
Investment property fair value movements 7 –
Retail financing fair value movements
2
(30) (8)
IAS 19 pension financing charge (31) (23)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses (6) (7)
Acquisition adjustments
3
13 18
One-off items (713) 68
Total adjustments (753) 100
(Loss)/profit before tax (72) 898
1 Profit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised £5 million for the Group (2014: £51 million) and £2 million for the property joint ventures (2014: £1 million).
2 Retail financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised a £23 million loss for the Group (2014: £5 million loss) and a £7 million loss for the joint ventures (2014: £3 million loss).
3  Acquisition adjustments include £23 million (2014: £3 million) fair value unwind included in revenue, £nil (2014: £15 million) remeasurement of the previously held equity interest included in other 
income, £8 million (2014: £1 million) fair value unwind included in cost of sales offset by £18 million (2014: £1 million) acquired intangible amortisation included in administrative expenses. 
The tax impact of adjusted items is included within note 8.
One-off items
One-off items of £713 million includes: a non-cash impairment and onerous contract charge of £628 million; restructuring costs of £15 million; costs of 
£53 million in relation to transitioning Sainsbury’s Bank to a new, more flexible banking platform; and £17 million of pension compensation payments.
 
As part of adapting to our changing customer needs, we have reassessed our store pipeline and the potential to achieve an appropriate return on capital, which 
resulted in a decision that some sites will no longer be developed. A charge of £287 million has been recognised within administration expenses, including 
£256 million of property, plant and equipment, which is all land and buildings, £1 million of goodwill, and £30 million of onerous contract provisions.
A charge of £341 million has also been recognised, £310 million within cost of sales and £31 million within administrative expenses, in relation to unprofitable 
and marginally profitable trading stores. This includes £284 million of property, plant and equipment, comprised of £156 million land and buildings and 
£128 million of fixtures and fittings, £7 million intangible assets, comprised of £2 million goodwill and £5 million of other intangibles, and onerous lease 
provisions of £50 million.
The recoverable amount of these assets has been determined as the higher of value-in-use or fair value less costs to dispose. Refer to notes 11 and 12 for 
further details of the impairment. 
Compensation payments of £17 million were made in the current year to employees on transition to the Group’s defined contribution pension schemes 
resulting from the closure of the Sainsbury’s defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual in the prior year. 
The prior year credit to one-off items of £68 million included the impact of a past service credit net of compensation payments of £148 million as a result of 
the closure of the Sainsbury’s defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual; a store pipeline impairment of £92 million; costs of £45 million in relation to 
the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition; a Nectar VAT upside of £76 million; and other one-off costs of £19 million mainly in relation to restructuring and a provision 
for a commercial item, for which we continue to defend our position.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
96
4 Segment reporting
The Group’s businesses are organised into three operating segments: 
 — Retailing (supermarkets and convenience);
 — Financial services (Sainsbury’s Bank); and
 — Property investments (joint ventures with the British Land Company PLC and Land Securities Group PLC).
Management have determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board (the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the 
Group) to make operational decisions on the management of the Group. All material operations and assets are in the UK. The business of the Group is not 
subject to highly seasonal fluctuations, although within retailing there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas. 
As disclosed in notes 13 and 14, Sainsbury’s Bank was accounted for as a 50 per cent owned joint venture for the 46 weeks to 31 January 2014 and 
consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to 28 February 2014 and for the 2014/15 financial year. Results for the periods pre and post 
the acquisition of the additional 50 per cent of shares in Sainsbury’s Bank are included in the financial services segment. 
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the revenue number in the income statement. Revenue is generated by the sale of 
goods and services, as set out in note 2. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment 
capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period. 
The Operating Board assesses the performance of all segments on the basis of underlying profit before tax. The reconciliation provided below reconciles 
underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit/(loss) before tax.
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Retailing
£m
Financial 
services
£m
Property 
investments
£m
Group
£m
Segment revenue
 Retail sales to external customers 23,443 – – 23,443
 Financial services to external customers – 309 – 309
Underlying revenue 23,443 309 – 23,752
Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind
1
– 23 – 23
Revenue 23,443 332 – 23,775
Underlying operating profit 720 62 – 782
Underlying finance income 19 – – 19
Underlying finance costs (126) – – (126)
Underlying share of post-tax (loss)/profit from joint ventures and associates (9) – 15 6
Underlying profit before tax 604 62 15 681
Profit on disposal of properties 5 – 2 7
Investment property fair value movements – – 7 7
Retail financing fair value movements (23) – (7) (30)
IAS 19 pension financing charge (31) – – (31)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses (6) – – (6)
Acquisition adjustments – 13 – 13
One-off items (660) (53) – (713)
(Loss)/profit before tax (111) 22 17 (72)
Income tax expense (94)
Loss for the financial year (166)
Assets 11,908 4,270 – 16,178
Investment in joint ventures and associates (note 14) 8 – 351 359
Segment assets 11,916 4,270 351 16,537
Segment liabilities (7,232) (3,766) – (10,998)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure
2
968 82 – 1,050
Depreciation expense (note 11) 540 5 – 545
Amortisation expense (note 12)
3
14 20 – 34
Impairment (note 11 and 12)
4
548 – – 548
Share-based payments 21 – – 21
1  Represents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition in 2013/14. 
2  Retail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of £951 million and intangible asset additions of £17 million. Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant 
and equipment additions of £14 million and intangible asset additions of £68 million. 
3 Amortisation expense within the financial services segment includes £18 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition fair value adjustments.
4 Impairment charge includes £540 million recognised against property, plant and equipment and £8 million against intangible assets, as detailed in note 11 and note 12.  Financial Statements
97
4 Segment reporting continued
52 weeks to 15 March 2014
Retailing
£m
Financial 
services
£m
Property 
investments
£m
Group
£m
Segment revenue
 Retail sales to external customers 23,921 – – 23,921
 Financial services to external customers – 25 – 25
Underlying revenue 23,921 25 – 23,946
Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind
1
– 3 – 3
Revenue 23,921 28 – 23,949
Underlying operating profit 873 6 – 879
Underlying finance income 20 – – 20
Underlying finance costs (131) – – (131)
Underlying share of post-tax (loss)/profit from joint ventures and associates (4) 18 16 30
Underlying profit before tax 758 24 16 798
Profit on disposal of properties 51 – 1 52
Retail financing fair value movements (5) – (3) (8)
IAS 19 pension financing charge (23) – – (23)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses (7) – – (7)
Acquisition adjustments – 18 – 18
One-off items 113 (45) – 68
Profit before tax 887 (3) 14 898
Income tax expense (182)
Profit for the financial year 716
Assets 12,023 4,113 – 16,136
Investment in joint ventures and associates (note 14) 3 – 401 404
Segment assets 12,026 4,113 401 16,540
Segment liabilities (6,907) (3,628) – (10,535)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business combinations)
2
994 131 – 1,125
Depreciation expense (note 11) 536 – – 536
Amortisation expense (note 12)
3
14 1 – 15
Impairment (note 11) 92 – – 92
Share-based payments 33 – – 33
1 Represents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition. 
2  Retail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of £975 million and intangible asset additions of £19 million. Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant 
and equipment additions of £18 million acquired as part of the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition and intangible asset additions (including goodwill) of £113 million of which £88 million was acquired as part of 
the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition, as detailed in note 12. 
3 Amortisation expense within the financial services segment includes £1 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from acquisition fair value adjustments.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
98
5 Operating profit
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following items:
Employee costs (note 7) 2,445 2,435
Depreciation expense (note 11) 545 536
Amortisation expense (note 12)
1
34 15
Profit on disposal of properties (note 3) (5) (51)
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 516 485
 – other leases 72 59
 – sublease payments receivable (41) (41)
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (12) 6
Impairment losses on loans and advances 21 2
Acquisition adjustments (note 3) (13) (18)
One-off items (note 3)
2,3
713 (68)
1   Amortisation expense includes £18 million (2014: £1 million) amortisation on acquired intangibles resulting from the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition fair value adjustments also included in acquisition 
adjustments in this note.
2 One-off items includes £17 million (2014: £7 million) employee restructuring costs also included in employee costs in this note.
3  One-off items includes an impairment charge of £540 million (2014: £92 million) recognised against property, plant and equipment and £8 million (2014: £nil) against intangible assets, as detailed in note 
11 and 12.  
Group
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Auditors’ remuneration
1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.7 0.6
– Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.2
– T ax advisory, tax compliance, and other non-audit fees 0.1 0.1
Total fees 1.2 1.2
1  In addition to the above, also included in administrative expenses is £0.3m (2014: £nil) payable to Lloyds Banking Group (‘LBG’) in respect of a review by their auditors, PwC, of controls operated on 
Sainsbury’s Bank’s behalf by LBG under contractual arrangements. 
6 Finance income and finance costs
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 19 20
Finance income 19 20
 
Borrowing costs:
 Secured borrowings (84) (91)
 Unsecured borrowings (47) (56)
 Obligations under finance leases (9) (8)
 Provisions – amortisation of discount (note 22) (3) (2)
 (143) (157)
Other finance costs:
 Interest capitalised – qualifying assets (note 11) 17 26
 Retail financing fair value movements
1
(23) (5)
 IAS 19 pension financing charge (note 30) (31) (23)
(37) (2)
Finance costs (180) (159)
1  Retail financing fair value movements includes net fair value movements on derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedging relationship of £(18) million (2014: £(4) million) and fair value 
movements on early repayment of bank loans carried at amortised cost of £(5) million (2014: £(1) million). Financial Statements
99
7 Employee costs
2015
£m
2014
£m
Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to:
 Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 2,180 2,150
 Social security costs 144 141
 Pension costs – defined contribution schemes 100 77
 Pension costs – defined benefit schemes (note 30) – 34
 Share-based payments expense (note 31) 21 33
 2,445 2,435
 
 
Number 
000s
Number 
000s
The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year was:
 Full-time 48.9 49.4
 Part-time 112.2 111.1
161.1 160.5
Full-time equivalent 107.4 107.0
Details of key management compensation can be found in note 32 and within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73.
8 Income tax expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax expense:
 Current year UK tax 123 204
 Current year overseas tax 1 2
 (Over)/under provision in prior years (26) 8
  98 214
Deferred tax credit:
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (25) 31
 Under/(over) provision in prior years 20 (12)
 Effect of change in tax rate 1 (51)
Total deferred tax credit (note 21) (4) (32)
Total income tax expense in income statement 94 182
The effective tax rate of (130.6) per cent (2014: 20.3 per cent) is lower than (2014: lower than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are 
explained below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax (72) 898
Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 21.09% (2014: 23.04%) (15) 207
Effects of underlying items:
 Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 30 31
 Over provision in prior years (5) (7)
 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 1 (31)
 Other 6 (3)
Effects of non-underlying items:
 Profit on disposal of properties (6) (16)
 Investment property fair value movements (1) –
 Revaluation of deferred tax balances – (20)
 (Over)/under provision in prior years (1) 3
 Impairments 84 21
 Other one-off items 1 –
 Other – (3)
Total income tax expense in income statement 94 182
On 20 March 2013, the Chancellor announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 20.0 per cent from 1 April 2015. This was substantively 
enacted on 2 July 2013 and hence the effect of the change on the deferred tax balances was included in the 2014 figures above.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
100
8 Income tax expense continued
Income tax (credited) or charged to equity and/or other comprehensive income during the year is as follows:
Share-based 
payments
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Fair value 
movements
£m
Total
£m
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income – (6) – (6)
Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income – 1 (9) (8)
Income tax credited – (5) (9) (14)
52 weeks to 15 March 2014 
Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income (1) (34) 1 (34)
Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 3 (41) 8 (30)
Revaluation of deferred tax balances – 22 (6) 16
Income tax charged/(credited) 2 (53) 3 (48)
The current and deferred tax in relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme’s remeasurements and available-for-sale fair value movements have 
been charged or credited through other comprehensive income where appropriate.
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in 
issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts (note 25), which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the convertible bonds (net of tax).  
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. These represent share 
options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the  
number of shares that would be issued if all convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, 
retail financing fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, IAS 19 pension financing element, defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition 
adjustments and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature. This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect the Group’s 
underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
  
2015 
million
2014
million
Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,911.0 1,896.8
Weighted average number of dilutive share options 17.3 25.4
Weighted average number of dilutive convertible bonds 62.3 46.3
Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 1,990.6 1,968.5
  
   £m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (166) 716
Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax
1
– 11
Diluted (loss)/earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share (166) 727
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent (166) 716
(Less)/add (net of tax):
 Profit on disposal of properties (17) (53)
 Investment property fair value movements (7) –
 Retail financing fair value movements 25 7
 IAS 19 pension financing charge 24 18
 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 5 5
 Acquisition adjustments (9) (17)
 One-off items 650 (33)
 Revaluation of deferred tax balances – (20)
Underlying profit after tax 505 623
Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 7 11
Diluted underlying profit after tax 512 634
 
pence 
per share
pence 
per share
Basic (loss)/earnings (8.7) 37.7
Diluted (loss)/earnings
1
(8.7) 36.9
Underlying basic earnings 26.4 32.8
Underlying diluted earnings 25.7 32.2
1  Dilutive share options and convertible bonds have been excluded from the calculation as in accordance with IAS 33, ‘Earnings per share’, they are only included where the impact is dilutive. Financial Statements
101
10 Dividend
 
2015
pence 
per share
2014
pence 
per share
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
 Final dividend of prior financial year 12.3 11.9 234 225
 Interim dividend of current financial year 5.0 5.0 96 95
  17.3 16.9 330 320
After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share (2014: 12.3 pence per share) was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 
14 March 2015, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of £157 million (2014: £234 million). The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability 
at 14 March 2015. 
11 Property, plant and equipment
 
Group 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Group 
Fixtures and 
equipment
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Cost
At 16 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19
Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 – 5 –
Additions 475 485 960 –
Disposals (110) (608) (718) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (90) (4) (94) (17)
At 14 March 2015 9,932 4,922 14,854 2
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 16 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3
Depreciation expense for the year 158 387 545 –
Impairment 412 128 540 –
Disposals (86) (604) (690) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (9) (1) (10) (2)
At 14 March 2015 2,249 2,957 5,206 1
 
Net book value at 14 March 2015 7,683 1,965 9,648 1
 
Capital work-in-progress included above 322 90 412 –
Cost      
At 17 March 2013 9,422 5,551 14,973 19
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 18 18 –
Additions 580 395 975 –
Disposals (341) (915) (1,256) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (9) – (9) –
At 15 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 17 March 2013 1,591 3,578 5,169 2
Depreciation expense for the year 168 368 536 –
Impairment 92 – 92 1
Disposals (75) (899) (974) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) – (2) –
At 15 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3
Net book value at 15 March 2014 7,878 2,002 9,880 16
Capital work-in-progress included above 388 77 465 – Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
102
11 Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
In accordance with IAS 36, ‘Impairment of Assets’, property, plant and equipment is only tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is 
identified. The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, following a triggering event, each store is a cash-generating unit (‘CGU’). 
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the stores using the latest 
budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board. Budget and forecast data reflect both past experience and future expectation of 
market conditions. The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, sales growth rates and expected changes in operating margins. 
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market. Board approved cash flow projections for 
five years are used and then extrapolated out assuming flat cashflows and discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent (2014: nine per cent) over the earlier of 
a 25-year period, being the estimated average remaining useful life of a freehold store, or lease length for leasehold stores. The discount rate is based on the 
Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. An increase in the discount rate of one per cent would result in an additional trading store impairment charge 
of around £50 million. 
Non-store assets, including depots, store pipeline development sites and IT assets, and the property, plant and equipment of Sainsbury’s Bank are reviewed 
separately for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified. When an impairment review is required, the carrying value of the asset is compared 
with its value in use using a methodology consistent with that described above and with its fair value less costs to dispose to determine the recoverable 
amount. The key assumptions in the fair value less costs to dispose include expected future rental yields, estimated costs to completion where applicable and 
consideration of alternative use values. 
During the year, an impairment of £540 million (2014: £92 million) was recognised, as detailed in note 3. 
Interest capitalised
Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to £17 million (2014: £26 million) for the Group and £nil (2014: £nil) for the Company. Accumulated interest 
capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to £360 million (2014: £344 million) for the Group and £nil 
(2014: £nil) for the Company. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 4.3 per cent (2014: 5.3 per cent).
Security
Property, plant and equipment of 125 (2014: 125) supermarket properties, with a net book value of £2,102 million (2014: £2,133 million), has been pledged as 
security for the long-term financing (note 20).
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of £65 million (2014: £66 million), has been pledged 
as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket 
properties sold in July 2000.
On 17 June 2010, property, plant and equipment comprising eight supermarket properties, with a net book value of £167 million, were transferred to the 
Sainsbury’s Property Scottish Partnership (‘the partnership’). On 25 March 2011 a further 13 properties with a net book value of £345 million were transferred 
to the partnership (see note 30).
Analysis of assets held under finance leases 
Group
2015
Land and 
buildings
£m
2015
Fixtures and 
equipment
£m
2015
Total
£m
2014
Land and 
buildings
£m
2014
Fixtures and 
equipment
£m
2014
Total
£m
Cost 75 – 75 63 15 78
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (29) – (29) (27) (13) (40)
Net book value 46 – 46 36 2 38 Financial Statements
103
12 Intangible assets
Group
Goodwill
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Acquired 
intangibles 
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 16 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418
Additions – 84 – 1 85
Disposals (2) (73) – – (75)
At 14 March 2015 143 197 39 49 428
 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 16 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132
Amortisation expense for the year – 15 18 1 34
Impairment 3 4 – 1 8
Disposals – (71) – – (71)
At 14 March 2015 4 44 19 36 103
 
Net book value at 14 March 2015 139 153 20 13 325
        
Cost
At 17 March 2013 100 188 – 46 334
Acquisition of subsidiaries 45 4 39 – 88
Additions – 42 – 2 44
Disposals – (48) – – (48)
At 15 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418
 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 17 March 2013 – 131 – 32 163
Amortisation expense for the year – 12 1 2 15
Impairment 1 – – – 1
Disposals – (47) – – (47)
At 15 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132
Net book value at 15 March 2014 144 90 38 14 286
The goodwill balance above relates primarily to the Group’s acquisitions of Sainsbury’s Bank plc (£45 million), Bells Stores Ltd, Jacksons Stores Ltd (£53 million), 
J.B. Beaumont Limited, S.L. Shaw Limited, Culcheth Provision Stores Ltd, Town Centre Retail (Bicester) Ltd, SW Dewsbury Ltd, Anobii Ltd and Portfolio 
Investments Ltd and is allocated to the respective cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) or group of CGUs within the retailing or financial services segment. The CGUs 
to which goodwill has been allocated and the level at which it is monitored in the retailing segment are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of 
stores, whilst within financial services Sainsbury’s Bank is a separate CGU. 
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU or group of 
CGUs with the carrying value of its goodwill. The calculation of the retail CGU’s value in use is detailed in note 11. The Sainsbury’s Bank CGU’s value in use is 
calculated using Board approved cash flows discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent over a five-year period with a terminal value. 
Based on the operating performance of the CGUs, an impairment of retail goodwill of £3 million was identified in the current financial year (2014: £1 million). 
The remaining valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in any impairment of goodwill. 
Acquired intangibles relating to customer relationships, purchased credit card relationships and the value of core deposits were recognised as part of the fair 
value accounting on the acquisition of Sainsbury’s Bank. Other intangibles primarily comprise pharmacy licences.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
104
13 Investments in subsidiaries
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Shares in subsidiaries – Company
Beginning of year 7,562 7,316
Additions 530 381
Disposals (450) –
Provision for diminution in value of investment (23) (135)
Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 11 –
End of year 7,630 7,562
The Company’s principal operating subsidiaries, all of which are directly owned by the Company, are:
  Principal activity
Share of ordinary  
allotted capital and  
voting rights
Country of  
registration or  
incorporation 
JS Insurance Limited Insurance 100% Isle of Man
JS Information Systems Limited IT services 100% England
Sainsbury’s Supermarkets Ltd Retailing 100% England
Sainsbury’s Bank plc Financial services 100% England
All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation. Sainsbury’s Bank plc has been consolidated for the 12 months 
to 28 February 2015, the Bank’s nearest month-end to the Group’s year-end. Adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events 
that occurred between this date and the Group’s balance sheet date.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal subsidiaries. A full list 
of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.
During the year, the Company subscribed for and subsequently disposed of £450 million preference shares in a Group subsidiary to facilitate the issue of 
£450 million of unsecured convertible bonds. A provision of £23 million (2014: £135 million) was also made against investments in subsidiaries where the 
carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount.
Sainsbury’s Property Scottish Partnership and Sainsbury’s Property Scottish Limited Partnership are two partnerships the Group has an interest in, which are 
fully consolidated into these Group accounts. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (‘ Accounts’) 
Regulations 2008 and has therefore not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts. Separate accounts for these partnerships 
are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
14 Investments in joint ventures and associates
 
 Group shares 
at cost
£m
Group share 
of post-
acquisition 
reserves
£m
Group total
£m
Company 
shares at cost
£m
At 16 March 2014 318 86 404 6
Additions 12 – 12 12
Disposals (4) – (4) –
Dividends and distributions received
1
(30) (40) (70) –
Share of retained profit:
 Underlying profit after tax – 12 12 –
 Investment property fair value movements – 7 7 –
 Retail financing fair value movements – (7) (7) –
 Share of profit on disposal of properties – 2 2 –
296 60 356 18
Movements in other comprehensive income (note 24) – 3 3 –
At 14 March 2015 296 63 359 18
        
At 17 March 2013 390 142 532 91
Additions 13 – 13 –
Disposals (85) (92) (177) (85)
Other adjustments – 7 7 –
Dividends received – (1) (1) –
Share of retained profit:
 Underlying profit after tax – 30 30 –
 Retail financing fair value movements – (3) (3) –
 Share of profit on disposal of properties – 1 1 –
318 84 402 6
Movements in other comprehensive income (note 24) – 2 2 –
At 15 March 2014 318 86 404 6
1  The dividends and distributions received include £30 million return of partner capital. Financial Statements
105
14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
The Group’s principal joint ventures are:
 
Statutory  
Year-end
Share of ordinary  
allotted capital
Country of registration or 
incorporation 
BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited (property investment) 31 March 50% England
Harvest
1
 (property investment) 31 March 50% England
1 Harvest includes The Harvest Limited Partnership, Harvest Development Management and Harvest Two Limited Partnership.
In the prior financial year, on 31 January 2014, the Group acquired an additional 50 per cent of the share capital of Sainsbury’s Bank plc, previously a joint 
venture, making the company a wholly-owned subsidiary which has been consolidated within the Group results from the date of acquisition onwards. 
In the current year, joint ventures with a different year-end date to the Group that were previously reported to include the results up to the Group’s year-end 
(2014: 15 March 2014), are now reported to include the results up to 28 February 2015, the nearest month-end to the Group’s year-end. BL Sainsbury 
Superstores Limited joint venture continues to be reported to the Group’s year-end 14 March 2015. Management accounts for the joint ventures are used where 
relevant and adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between 28 February and the Group’s balance 
sheet date. The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures are detailed below:
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets 558 666
Current assets 53 46
Current liabilities (45) (48)
Non-current liabilities (218) (265)
Net assets 348 399
Share of joint venture losses 6 –
Investments in joint ventures and associates 354 399
Income 73 213
Expenses (72) (185)
Investment property fair value movements 7 –
Share of joint venture profit after tax 8 28
Investments in joint ventures and associates at 14 March 2015 include £5 million of goodwill (2014: £5 million).
The total assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Group’s principal joint ventures are detailed below:
BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited Harvest
 
2015
1
 
£m
2014
2
 
£m
2015
3
 
£m
2014
2
 
£m
Non-current assets 1,038 1,208 63 115
Current assets 11 2 31 46
Current liabilities (21) (43) (15) (30)
Non-current liabilities (435) (524) – (4)
Joint venture net assets 593 643 79 127
Income 63 65 18 25
Expenses (41) (38) (5) (17)
Investment property fair value movements 14 6 – (5)
Joint venture profit after tax 36 33 13 3
1 As at and for the 52 weeks ended 14 March 2015.
2 As at and for the 52 weeks ended 15 March 2014.
3 As at and for the 50 weeks ended 28 February 2015. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
106
15 Available-for-sale financial assets
 
Group 
2015
£m
Group 
2014
£m
Company 
2015
£m
Company 
2014
£m
Non-current
Unlisted equity investments 2 2 – –
Investment securities – 32 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 37 37
Other financial asset 145 184 – –
184 255 37 37
The other financial asset represents the Group’s beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool. The fair value of the other financial asset is based 
on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of 0.8 per cent (2014: three per cent) and a weighted average cost of capital of nine per cent 
(2014: nine per cent). There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year 
(see note 29 for sensitivity analysis).
Investment securities of £nil (2014: £32 million) related to a Euro denominated floating rate note held by Sainsbury’s Bank. The fair value movement on 
investment securities classified as available-for-sale is £nil (2014: £1 million). 
16 Inventories
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Goods held for resale 994 1,001
Development properties 3 4
997 1,005
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 was £17,501 million (2014: £17,883 million).
17 Receivables
(a) Trade and other receivables
 
Group 
2015
£m
Group 
2014
£m
Company 
2015
£m
Company 
2014
£m
Non-current
Amounts owed by Group entities – – 1,363 1,229
Other receivables 73 26 – –
  73 26 1,363 1,229
Prepayments and accrued income 10 – – –
  83 26 1,363 1,229
Current
Trade receivables 101 125 – –
Amounts owed by Group entities – – 1,395 1,422
Other receivables 271 247 – –
  372 372 1,395 1,422
Prepayments and accrued income 99 61 4 6
  471 433 1,399 1,428
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms. Current other receivables of £271 million (2014: £247 million), which include 
£121 million (2014: £117 million) of bank funds in the course of settlement, are generally non-interest bearing. The carrying amounts of trade and other 
receivables are denominated in sterling. Financial Statements
107
17 Receivables continued
Current amounts owed by Group entities to the Company include £nil (2014: £60 million) of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital, as detailed in 
note 32. 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming 
majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means. New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit 
checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis. 
(b) Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Loans and advances to customers 1,444 1,323
Impairment of loans and advances (32) (31)
 1,412 1,292
Current
Loans and advances to customers 1,654 1,335
Impairment of loans and advances (55) (52)
  1,599 1,283
Loans and advances to customers accrue interest at commercial borrowing rates. Sainsbury’s Bank has pledged the rights to £487 million in a pool of Bank 
issued loans and advances to customers for £240 million of Treasury Bills (under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme). These Treasury Bills can 
then be converted to cash as a source of future funding to the Bank. As at 14 March 2015, there was £nil (2014: £nil) borrowings drawn down.
Refer to note 28 for details on Sainsbury’s Bank credit risk. 
(c) Provision for impairment of loans and advances
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening provision (83) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries – (83)
Additional provisions (21) (2)
Utilisation of provision 16 2
Amortisation of discount 1 –
Closing provision (87) (83)
(d) Major counterparties
Major counterparties are identified as follows:
 
2015
Number of
counterparties
2015
Balance
£m
2014
Number of
counterparties 
2014
Balance
£m
Trade receivables – – 2 24
Other receivables 2 35 2 26
Related parties 1 13 1 28
In the prior year significant trade receivables identified above relate to amounts receivable from credit card companies and balances due from external suppliers. 
At 14 March 2015, two significant other receivables were identified, being amounts due from CBRE of £11 million and an amount due from Lloyds Banking 
Group of £24 million (2014: £15 million due from the National Health Service and £11 million due from CBRE).
 
The related party receivable in 2015 and 2014 is from the Group’s joint venture The Harvest Limited Partnership. Loans are approved by the Investment Committee. 
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets held for sale of £84 million (2014: £7 million) for the Group and £15 million (2014: £nil) for the Company relate to properties held in the 
retailing segment. Sale of these assets is expected to occur in the financial year beginning 15 March 2015. Assets held for sale at 15 March 2014 were sold 
during the financial year ended 14 March 2015. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
108
19 Payables
(a) Trade and other payables
 
Group 
2015
£m
Group 
2014
£m
Company 
2015
£m
Company 
2014
£m
Current
Trade payables 2,089 1,846 – –
Amounts owed to Group entities – – 4,403 4,427
Other payables 580 590 19 30
Accruals and deferred income 292 256 – –
 2,961 2,692 4,422 4,457
Non-current
Amounts owed to Group entities – – 798 863
Other payables 9 10 – –
Accruals and deferred income 256 194 – –
  265 204 798 863
The Group’s policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely 
submission of satisfactory invoices. 
Deferred income includes accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group has net euro denominated trade payables of £16 million (2014: £11 million) and US dollar denominated trade payables of £46 million  
(2014: £35 million).
(b) Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks 
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current
Customer accounts 3,305 3,245
Other deposits 20 –
Senior secured loan notes 70 –
 3,395 3,245
Non-current
Customer accounts 185 302
Other deposits 3 –
Senior secured loan notes 78 –
266 302
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers are generally repayable on demand and accrue interest at commercial deposit rates. 
Sainsbury’s Bank, via its subsidiary undertakings, has entered a £400 million asset backed commercial paper securitisation of consumer loans of which 
£150 million had been drawn prior to year end. Interest on the notes is repayable at a floating rate linked to three-month LIBOR and their contractual 
repayment is determined by cash flows on the relevant personal loans included in the collateral pool.
Other deposits include £23 million (2014: £nil) of UK non-financial wholesale counterparties. 
  Financial Statements
109
20 Borrowings
Group
2015
Current
£m
2015
Non-current
£m
2015
Total
£m
2014
Current
£m
2014
Non-current
£m
2014
Total
£m
Secured loans:
 Loan due 2018 95 778 873 88 868 956
 Loan due 2031 39 795 834 28 827 855
Unsecured loans:
 Bank overdrafts 9 – 9 13 – 13
 Revolving credit facility due 2017 – 120 120 – 200 200
 Bank loan due 2014 – – – 69 – 69
 Bank loans due 2015 86 – 86 96 92 188
 Bank loans due 2016 – 35 35 – 42 42
 Bank loans due 2017 – – – – 60 60
 Bank loans due 2019 – 200 200 – – –
 Convertible bond due 2014 – – – 189 – 189
 Convertible bond due 2019 1 409 410 – – –
 Other loans due 2015 – – – 24 – 24
Finance lease obligations 30 169 199 27 161 188
Total borrowings 260 2,506 2,766 534 2,250 2,784
Company
2015
Current
£m
2015
Non-current
£m
2015
Total
£m
2014
Current
£m
2014
Non-current
£m
2014
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts – – – 7 – 7
Revolving credit facility due 2017 – 120 120 – 200 200
Bank loan due 2014 – – – 25 – 25
Bank loans due 2015 86 – 86 96 92 188
Bank loans due 2016 – 35 35 – 42 42
Bank loans due 2017 – – – – 60 60
Bank loans due 2019 – 200 200 – – –
Convertible bond due 2014 – – – 189 – 189
Convertible bond due 2019 1 409 410 – – –
Other loans due 2015 – – – 24 – 24
Total borrowings 87 764 851 341 394 735
Secured loans
Secured loans are secured on 125 (2014: 125) supermarket properties (note 11) and comprise loans from two finance companies, Eddystone Finance plc and 
Longstone Finance plc:
 — a fixed rate amortising loan from Eddystone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of £850 million (2014: £929 million) at a weighted average rate 
of 5.43 per cent and carrying amount of £873 million (2014: £956 million) with a final repayment date of April 2018; and 
 — an inflation linked amortising loan from Longstone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of £811 million (2014: £829 million) at a fixed real rate 
of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 
£834 million (2014: £855 million) with a final repayment date of April 2031. 
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert £211 million (2014: £211 million) of the £850 million (2014: £929 million) loan due 2018 from fixed 
to floating rates of interest. These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges (note 29). In previous years, £572 million of fixed to floating rate 
swaps accounted for as fair value hedges were de-designated from their fair value hedging relationship. The fair value adjustment of the debt previously 
hedged by these swaps will be amortised over the remaining life of the loans, resulting in an amortisation charge to the income statement in the current 
financial year of £1 million (2014: £1 million). 
The Group has entered into inflation swaps to convert £400 million (2014: £400 million) of the £811 million (2014: £829 million) loan due 2031 from RPI linked 
interest to fixed rate interest for periods maturing April 2017 to April 2019. These transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges (note 29).
The principal activity of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance plc is the issuing of commercial mortgage backed securities and applying the proceeds 
towards the Secured loans due 2018 and 2031 with the Group as summarised above.
SFM Corporate Services Limited holds all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited and Longstone Finance Holdings Limited on trust for 
charitable purposes. Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance 
Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Longstone Finance plc. As the Group has no interest, power or bears any risk over these 
entities they are not included in the Group consolidation.
Bank overdrafts
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above bank base rate.
Revolving credit facility
The Group maintains a syndicated committed revolving credit facility for £1,150 million. The £1,150 million facility is split into two tranches, a £500 million 
Facility (A) maturing in March 2017 and a £650 million Facility (B) maturing in March 2019. At 14 March 2015, £120 million had been drawn under Facility (A) 
(2014: £200 million).
The revolving credit facility incurs commitment fees at market rates and drawdowns bear interest at a spread above LIBOR. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
110
20 Borrowings continued
Bank loans due 2014
In April 2014, the Group prepaid a £25 million loan due July 2014 without penalty and also prepaid a £40 million loan due May 2015 at fair value. 
Bank loans due 2015
Bank loans due 2015 comprise a €50 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a £45 million floating rate loan; and a £50 million 
loan due June 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a fixed rate loan. The £50 million loan and associated interest rate swap have been designated as 
a cash flow hedge.
During March 2015, the Group repaid upon maturity a £20 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest, a US$69 million loan due March 2015 at 
floating rates of interest swapped into a £44 million floating rate loan and a €40 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 
£34 million floating rate loan. 
Bank loans due 2016
Bank loans due 2016 comprise a €50 million loan due September 2016 at floating rates of interest swapped into a £44 million floating rate loan. 
Bank loans due 2017
During March 2015, the Group prepaid at fair value a US$100 million loan due March 2017 at floating rates of interest swapped into a £63 million fixed rate 
loan. The US$100 million loan and associated cross currency swap had been designated as a cash flow hedge. 
Bank loans due 2019
Bank loans due 2019 comprise a new £200 million five-year bilateral loan due August 2019 at floating rates of interest, £100 million of which was swapped 
into fixed rate liabilities. The £100 million portion of the loan and associated interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
Convertible bond due 2014
In July 2014, the £190 million convertible bond matured and was repaid. 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Liability component as at the beginning of the year 189 184
Repaid during the financial year (190) –
Interest expense 5 14
Interest paid (4) (8)
Other – (1)
Liability component as at the end of the year – 189
Convertible bond due 2019
In November 2014, the Group issued £450 million of unsecured convertible bonds due November 2019. The bonds pay a coupon of 1.25 per cent payable 
semi-annually. Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 21 November 2019 at a conversion price of 353 pence. 
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split into a liability component of £411 million and an equity component of £39 million. The equity 
component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Face value of the convertible bond issued in November 2014 450 –
Equity component (39) –
Liability component on initial recognition in November 2014 411 –
Interest expense 5 –
Other
1
(6) –
Liability component as at the end of the financial year 410 –
1  Other relates to fees.
Other loans due 2015
The three non-bank fixed rate loans due March 2015 totalling €28 million swapped into a £23 million floating rate loan were repaid upon maturity in March 
2015. These transactions had been accounted for as fair value hedges (note 29).
Finance lease obligations
 
Minimum lease 
payments
2015
£m
Minimum lease 
payments
2014
£m
Present value of 
minimum lease 
payments
2015
£m
Present value of  
minimum lease 
payments
2014
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
 Within one year 38 35 30 27
 In the second to fifth years inclusive 124 122 100 101
 After five years 207 195 69 60
 369 352 199 188
Less: future finance charges (170) (164) 
Present value of lease obligations 199 188 
  
Disclosed as: 
 Current 30 27 
 Non-current 169 161 
199 188  Financial Statements
111
20 Borrowings continued
Finance leases have effective interest rates ranging from 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent (2014: 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent). The average remaining lease term is 
67 years (2014: 68 years). 
In May 2014, the Group entered into a £30 million five-year hire purchase facility with respect to moveable in-store assets due 2019.
 
21 Deferred taxation
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, 
are shown below.
Group
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
£m
Capital losses
£m
Fair value 
movements
£m
Rolled over 
capital gains
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Share-based 
payment
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 16 March 2014 (176) 48 (34) (96) 58 12 (39) (227)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 16 4 (4) (1) – (6) (4) 5
Credit/(charge) to equity or other comprehensive 
income
– – 9 – (1) – – 8
Rate change adjustment to income statement (2) – – – – – 1 (1)
At 14 March 2015 (162) 52 (29) (97) 57 6 (42) (215)
 
At 17 March 2013 (214) 49 (36) (100) 48 19 (43) (277)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – 4 – – – – 4
Credit/(charge) to income statement 12 6 – (11) (22) (2) (2) (19)
(Charge)/credit to equity or other comprehensive 
income
– – (8) – 41 (3) – 30
Rate change adjustment to income statement 26 (7) – 15 13 (2) 6 51
Rate change adjustment to equity – – 6 – (22) – – (16)
At 15 March 2014 (176) 48 (34) (96) 58 12 (39) (227)
Group
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Total deferred income tax liabilities (330) (345)
Total deferred income tax assets 115 118
Net deferred income tax liability recognised in non-current liabilities (215) (227)
Company
Capital 
losses 
£m
Fair value 
movements
£m
Rolled over 
capital gains
£m
Total
£m
At 16 March 2014 25 – (25) –
Charge to income statement – – – –
Rate change adjustment to income statement – – – –
At 14 March 2015 25 – (25) –
At 17 March 2013 29 1 (29) 1
Charge to income statement – (1) – (1)
Rate change adjustment to income statement (4) – 4 –
At 15 March 2014 25 – (25) –
Company
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Total deferred income tax liabilities (25) (25)
Total deferred income tax assets 25 25
Net deferred income tax asset – –
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that 
these assets will be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred 
income tax assets and the deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
112
22 Provisions
Group onerous  
leases and  
onerous contracts
£m
Group long 
service  
awards
£m
Other 
provisions
1
£m
Group 
total
£m
Company 
onerous  
leases
£m
Company 
disposal 
provision
£m
Company 
total
£m
At 16 March 2014 29 7 33 69 3 1 4
Additional provisions 88 1 21 110 – – –
Unused amounts reversed (3) – (2) (5) – – –
Utilisation of provision (29) (1) (26) (56) (1) – (1)
Amortisation of discount 3 – – 3 1 – 1
At 14 March 2015 88 7 26 121 3 1 4
At 17 March 2013 38 7 5 50 2 1 3
Acquired through business combinations – – 14 14 – – –
Additional provisions 1 – 16 17 1 – 1
Unused amounts reversed (1) – – (1) – – –
Utilisation of provision (10) (1) (2) (13) – – –
Amortisation of discount 1 1 – 2 – – –
At 15 March 2014 29 7 33 69 3 1 4
1  Group disposal provisions of £1 million (2014: £1 million) have been included in other provisions in the current and prior year. 
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Disclosed as:
Current 44 40 2 2
Non-current 77 29 2 2
  121 69 4 4
The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 23 years (2014: 29 years), after allowance for existing or anticipated 
sublet rental income. The additional provisions of £88 million includes £50 million onerous lease charge and £30 million onerous contract charge, recognised 
as part of the impairment review discussed in note 3. The assumptions used in the calculation of the onerous lease charge recognised as part of the 
impairment review are consistent with those discussed in note 11. The onerous contract provision is expected to be utilised within the next financial year and 
hence is classified as current. 
Long service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
Additional provisions of £21 million within other provisions include a £14 million provision for restructuring costs. The prior year additional provisions of 
£16 million included within other provisions mainly included a commercial item for which we continue to defend our position. The prior year £14 million 
acquired through business combinations related to Sainsbury’s Bank provisions. 
23 Called up share capital and share premium account
Group and Company
2015
million
2014
million
2015
£m
2014
£m
Called up share capital
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares – 28
4
/ 7 1,919 1,907 548 545
Share premium account
Share premium 1,108 1,091
The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below:
Ordinary 
shares
million
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
At 16 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091
Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 3 17
At 14 March 2015 1,919 548 1,108
    
At 17 March 2013 1,893 541 1,075
Allotted in respect of share option schemes 14 4 16
At 15 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091 Financial Statements
113
24 Capital redemption and other reserves
Group
 Currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Available-
for-sale 
assets
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
£m
 Convertible 
bond 
reserve
£m
Total 
other 
reserves
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
At 16 March 2014 (2) 153 (26) 2 127 680
Currency translation differences 3 – – – 3 –
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements (net of tax):
 Group – (30) – – (30) –
Items reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets reserve – 1 – – 1 –
Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements (net of tax):
 Group – – (13) – (13) –
 Joint ventures (note 14) – – 3 – 3 –
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve – – 21 – 21 –
Convertible bond – equity component – – – 39 39 –
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – – – (5) (5) –
At 14 March 2015 1 124 (15) 36 146 680
 
At 17 March 2013 – 122 11 7 140 680
Currency translation differences (2) – – – (2) –
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements (net of tax):
 Group – 31 – – 31 –
Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements (net of tax):
 Group – – (43) – (43) –
 Joint ventures (note 14) – – 2 – 2 –
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve – – 4 – 4 –
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – – – (5) (5) –
At 15 March 2014 (2) 153 (26) 2 127 680
Company
Available-
for-sale 
assets
£m
Convertible 
bond 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
£m
Total 
other 
reserves
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
At 16 March 2014 6 2 (1) 7 680
Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements (net of tax) 2 – – 2 –
Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements (net of tax) – – (5) (5) –
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve – – 2 2 –
Convertible bond – equity component – 39 – 39 –
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – (5) – (5) –
At 14 March 2015 8 36 (4) 40 680
 
At 17 March 2013 6 7 (2) 11 680
Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve – – 1 1 –
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – (5) – (5) –
At 15 March 2014 6 2 (1) 7 680
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations 
from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
The available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group. The cash flow hedge 
reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the £190 million convertible bond issued in July 2009, which matured and was repaid in July 
2014, and the £450 million convertible bond issued in November 2014.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares. Shareholders approved a £680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, 
at the Company’s Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004. The final redemption date for B Shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the 
B shares have now been completed. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
114
25 Retained earnings
 
Group 
Own shares
£m
Group 
Profit and 
loss account
£m
Group 
Total retained 
earnings
£m
 Company 
Retained 
earnings 
£m
At 16 March 2014 (9) 3,569 3,560 2,046
(Loss)/profit for the year – (166) (166) 344
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes (net of tax) – (14) (14) –
Dividends paid – (330) (330) (330)
Share-based payment (net of tax) – 21 21 –
Shares vested 9 – 9 –
Purchase of own shares (18) – (18) –
Allotted in respect of share option schemes – (12) (12) 21
Utilised in respect of share option schemes – – – (1)
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – 5 5 5
Purchase of non-controlling interest – 2 2 –
At 14 March 2015 (18) 3,075 3,057 2,085
At 17 March 2013 (21) 3,422 3,401 1,952
Profit for the year – 716 716 378
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes (net of tax) – (273) (273) –
Dividends paid – (320) (320) (320)
Share-based payment (net of tax) – 31 31 –
Shares vested 12 – 12 –
Allotted in respect of share option schemes – (12) (12) 33
Utilised in respect of share option schemes – – – (2)
Amortisation of convertible bond – equity component – 5 5 5
At 15 March 2014 (9) 3,569 3,560 2,046
Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) trusts
The Group owns 5,960,476 (2014: 2,061,793) of its ordinary shares of 28
4
/ 7 pence nominal value each. At 14 March 2015, the total nominal value of the own 
shares was £2 million (2014: £1 million). 
All shares (2014: all shares) are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans. The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the 
shareholder under the above schemes. 
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements. The market value of the own shares at 14 March 2015 was £15 million 
(2014: £6 million).  Financial Statements
115
26 Notes to the cash flow statements
(a) Reconciliation of operating (loss)/profit to cash generated from operations
 
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax (72) 898 373 375
Net finance costs 161 139 (123) (23)
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures (note 14) (8) (28) – –
Dividend income from subsidiaries – – (252) (250)
Operating profit/(loss) 81 1,009 (2) 102
Adjustments for:
 Depreciation expense 545 536 – –
 Amortisation expense 34 15 – –
 Non-cash acquisition adjustments
1
 (31) (19) – –
 Sainsbury’s Bank impairment losses on loans and advances 21 2 – –
 Profit on disposal of properties (5) (51) – –
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 540 92 – 1
 Impairment of intangible assets 8 1 – –
 Nectar VAT recovery – (14) – –
 Foreign exchange differences (12) 6 – –
 Share-based payments expense 21 33 – –
 Retirement benefit obligations
2
(79) (244) – –
 Provision for diminution in value of investment – – 23 135
 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment – – (11) –
 Write down of advances to Group companies – – (28) (237)
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,123 1,366 (18) 1
Changes in working capital: 
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 6 (19) – –
 Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets 32 – – –
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (57) 13 45 13
 Increase in amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers (426) (23) – –
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other payables 294 (118) (519) 22
 Increase in amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers 114 6 – –
 Increase in provisions 50 2 – 2
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 1,136 1,227 (492) 38
1  Refer to note 3 for details of acquisition adjustments. This excludes £18 million (2014: £1 million) amortisation on acquired intangibles included within amortisation in this note. 
2  The adjustment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the service charge of £nil (2014: £34 million) for the defined benefit scheme, defined benefit pension scheme expenses of 
£6 million (2014: £7 million), one-off past service credit of £nil (2014: £(158) million) and the cash contributions of £85 million made by the Group to the defined benefit scheme (2014: £127 million). 
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
Group
2015
£m
Group
2014
£m
Company
2015
£m
Company
2014
£m
Cash in hand and bank balances 970 409 1 1
Money market funds and deposits 262 656 91 135
Treasury bills 53 527 – –
Cash and bank balances 1,285 1,592 92 136
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (9) (13) – (7)
Net cash and cash equivalents 1,276 1,579 92 129 Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
116
27 Analysis of net debt
Group 
2015
£m
Sainsbury’s 
Bank 
£m
Adjusted 
Group 
2015
1
£m
Group
2014
£m
Sainsbury’s 
Bank 
£m
Adjusted 
Group 
2014
1
£m
Non-current assets
Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 37 – 37 37 – 37
Derivative financial instruments 21 (1) 20 28 (1) 27
58 (1) 57 65 (1) 64
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 (882) 403 1,592 (1,225) 367
Derivative financial instruments 69 – 69 49 – 49
 1,354 (882) 472 1,641 (1,225) 416
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts (9) – (9) (13) – (13)
Borrowings (221) – (221) (494) – (494)
Finance leases (30) – (30) (27) – (27)
Derivative financial instruments (75) 1 (74) (65) – (65)
 (335) 1 (334) (599) – (599)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (2,337) – (2,337) (2,089) – (2,089)
Finance leases (169) – (169) (161) – (161)
Derivative financial instruments (38) 6 (32) (21) 6 (15)
 (2,544) 6 (2,538) (2,271) 6 (2,265)
Total net debt (1,467) (876) (2,343) (1,164) (1,220) (2,384)
1  The Group’s definition of net debt excludes Sainsbury’s Bank’s own net debt balances (2014: The Group’s definition of net debt includes the cost of acquiring Sainsbury’s Bank, but excludes Sainsbury’s Bank’s 
own net debt balances). 
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Net debt as at the beginning of the year (2,384) (2,162)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (303) 1,075
Elimination of net decrease/(increase) in Sainsbury’s Bank cash and cash equivalents 343 (1,225)
Net (increase)/decrease in borrowings
1
(20) 1
Net increase of obligations under finance leases (11) (28)
Fair value movements (7) (45)
Equity component of convertible bond 39 –
Net debt as at the end of the year (2,343) (2,384)
1 Excluding fair value and Sainsbury’s Bank derivative movements.  Financial Statements
117
28 Financial risk management
The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and 
capital risk.
Financial risk management is managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. 
The risk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance by identifying financial exposures 
and setting appropriate risk limits and controls. 
Financial risk management with respect to Sainsbury’s Bank is separately managed by the Bank’s Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO) reporting 
to the Sainsbury’s Bank Board Risk Committee. The risks are more fully described in the Sainsbury’s Bank section below. 
The Group uses forward contracts and options to hedge foreign exchange and commodity exposures and interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate 
exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s treasury policy which prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due at a reasonable price.
The operational cash flow of the Group is largely stable and predictable reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector. Cash flow forecasts are 
produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements. The Group’s liquidity policy sets a minimum funding headroom of 
£300 million in excess of forecast net debt over a rolling 12 month time horizon. The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining core long-dated borrowings, 
pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding adequate contingent liquidity in the form of committed standby credit facilities.
Short-term and seasonal funding is sourced from the Group’s revolving credit facility and the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at 
various spreads above LIBOR. The Group maintains a syndicated committed revolving credit facility for £1,150 million. The £1,150 million facility is split into 
two tranches, a £500 million Facility (A) maturing in March 2017 and a £650 million Facility (B) maturing in March 2019. At 14 March 2015, £120 million had 
been drawn under Facility (A) (2014: £200 million). 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate of cash flows in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Group
Less than 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
At 14 March 2015
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured loans:
 Loan due 2018 (130) (134) (712) –
 Loan due 2031
1
(64) (65) (204) (863)
Unsecured loans:
 Bank overdraft (9) – – –
 Revolving credit facility due 2017
2
(1) (1) (120) –
 Bank loans due 2015
2,3
(86) – – –
 Bank loans due 2016
2,3
(1) (36) – –
 Bank loans due 2019
2
(4) (4) (211) –
 Convertible bond due 2019 (6) (6) (467) –
Finance lease obligations
2
(39) (46) (88) (207)
Trade and other payables (2,926) (9) – –
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks
5
(3,763) (171) (101) –
Derivative contracts – net settled 
Commodity contracts (8) – – –
Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships
1,4
(4) (3) 1 –
Other interest rate swaps
4
1 1 – –
Derivative contracts – gross settled
Foreign exchange forwards – outflow
3
(367) (21) – –
Foreign exchange forwards – inflow
3
382 21 – –
Commodity contracts – outflow (15) (15) (46) (61)
Commodity contracts – inflow 12 13 38 60
Cross currency swaps – outflow
3,4
(47) (45) – –
Cross currency swaps – inflow
3,4
37 36 – – Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
118
28 Financial risk management continued
Group
Less than 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
At 15 March 2014
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured loans:
 Loan due 2018 (127) (130) (846) –
 Loan due 2031
1
(63) (65) (202) (1,004)
Unsecured loans:
 Bank overdraft (13) – – –
 Revolving credit facility due 2017
2
(2) (2) (203) –
 Bank loans due 2014
2
(70) – – –
 Bank loans due 2015
2,3
(99) (93) – –
 Bank loans due 2016
2,3
(1) (1) (43) –
 Bank loans due 2017
2,3
(2) (2) (62) –
 Convertible bond due 2014 (194) – – –
 Other loans due 2015
3
(25) – – –
Finance lease obligations
2
(36) (33) (91) (195)
Trade and other payables (2,665) (10) – –
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers
5
(3,543) (231) (75) –
Derivative contracts – net settled 
Commodity contracts (1) – – –
Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships
1,4
3 6 10 –
Other interest rate swaps
4
1 1 1 –
Derivative contracts – gross settled
Foreign exchange forwards – outflow
3
(405) (40) – –
Foreign exchange forwards – inflow
3
389 40 – –
Commodity contracts – outflow (13) (13) (39) (74)
Commodity contracts – inflow 12 13 40 80
Cross currency swaps – outflow
3,4
(110) (50) (145) –
Cross currency swaps – inflow
3,4
105 46 133 –
Company
Less than 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
At 14 March 2015
Revolving credit facility due 2017
2
(1) (1) (120) –
Bank loan due 2015
2,3
(86) – – –
Bank loans due 2016
2,3
(1) (36) – –
Bank loans due 2019
2
(4) (4) (211) –
Convertible bond due 2019 (6) (6) (467) –
Amounts owed to Group entities
2
(4,438) (131) (724) –
Other payables (19) – – –
At 15 March 2014
Bank overdraft (7) – – –
Revolving credit facility due 2017
2
(2) (2) (203) –
Bank loan due 2014
2
(25) – – –
Bank loan due 2015
2,3
(99) (93) – –
Bank loans due 2016
2,3
(1) (1) (43) –
Bank loans due 2017
2,3
(2) (2) (62) –
Convertible bond due 2014 (194) – – –
Other loans due 2015
3
(25) – – –
Amounts owed to Group entities
2
(4,607) (51) (806) –
Other payables (30) – – –
Assumptions:
1  Cash flows relating to debt and swaps linked to inflation rates have been calculated using a RPI of 1.1 per cent for the year ended 14 March 2015, 1.8 per cent for the year ended 13 March 2016 and  
2.6 per cent for future years (2014: RPI of 2.8 per cent for the year ended 15 March 2014 and 3.1 per cent for future years).
2 Cash flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
3 Cash flows in foreign currencies have been translated using spot rates at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
4  The swap rate which matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap at 14 March 2015 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 
(2014: 15 March 2014).
5  Cash flows relating to amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks are calculated using contractual terms and interest rates for fixed rate instruments. Where balances are contractually 
repayable on demand, behavioural assumptions are applied to estimate the interest payable on those balances. These are shown as due within one year. Financial Statements
119
28 Financial risk management continued
Further information relating to liquidity risk in Sainsbury’s Bank is more fully described in the separate section on Sainsbury’s Bank financial risk factors below.
Counterparty credit risk
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from counterparty default or non-performance in respect of Group holdings of cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to 
customers. The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £5,124 million (2014: £4,897 million), equivalent to the Group’s total financial assets, and of this 
amount £4,074 million relates to Sainsbury’s Bank (2014: £3,965 million). 
The Group sets counterparty limits for each of its banking and investment counterparties based on their credit ratings but with minimum senior unsecured 
long-term credit ratings of BBB+ from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch or Baa1 from Moody’s or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAAm from Standard & Poor’s 
and Fitch or Aaa/MR1+ from Moody’s.
The table below analyses the Group’s cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash, cash in transit and cash at ATMs:
Counterparty Long-term rating
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Financial institutions – Money market funds AAAm/Aaa 114 367 65 60
Financial institutions – Money market deposits AA+/Aa1 to A/A2 148 289 25 75
UK Government Treasury Bills AA+/Aa1 to A/A2 53 527 – –
Deposits of central banks AA+/Aa1 485 5 – –
Management does not expect any losses arising from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange options, forward contracts and commodity contracts for difference are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, foreign 
currency and fuel exposures. The table below analyses the fair value of the Group’s derivative financial assets by credit exposure, excluding any collateral held.
Counterparty Long-term rating
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Interest rate swaps AA+/Aa1 to A/A2 43 49 43 47
Interest rate swaps A/A3- to BBB+/Baa1 21 24 21 24
FX forward contracts AA+/Aa1 to A/A2 24 1 – –
FX forward contracts A/A3- to BBB+/Baa1 2 – – –
Further information relating to counterparty credit risk in Sainsbury’s Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsbury’s Bank financial risk factors below.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities 
The following table sets out the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or a master netting agreement. 
The master netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations. 
Amounts not offset in balance sheet
Group
Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets and liabilities
£m
Amounts offset in 
the balance sheet
£m
Net amounts 
recognised in the 
balance sheet
£m
Balances subject to a 
contractual right of 
offset
£m
Cash collateral 
pledged
£m
Net amounts
£m
At 14 March 2015
Derivative financial assets 90 – 90 (16) (10) 64
Derivative financial liabilities (113) – (113) 16 5 (92)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 – 1,285 (8) – 1,277
Bank overdrafts (9) – (9) 8 – (1)
Trade and other payables (1,939) 247 (1,692) – – (1,692)
(686) 247 (439) – (5) (444)
At 15 March 2014
Derivative financial assets 77 – 77 (1) (17) 59
Derivative financial liabilities (86) – (86) 1 – (85)
Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 – 1,592 (7) (45) 1,540
Bank overdrafts (13) – (13) 7 – (6)
Trade and other payables (1,005) 144 (861) – – (861)
565 144 709 – (62) 647 Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
120
28 Financial risk management continued
Amounts not offset in balance sheet
Company
Gross amounts of 
recognised financial 
assets and liabilities
£m
Amounts offset in 
the balance sheet
£m
Net amounts 
recognised in the 
balance sheet
£m
Balances subject to a 
contractual right of 
offset
£m
Cash collateral 
pledged
£m
Net amounts
£m
At 14 March 2015
Derivative financial assets 77 – 77 – (10) 67
Derivative financial liabilities (75) – (75) – – (75)
Cash and cash equivalents 92 – 92 – – 92
94 – 94 – (10) 84
At 15 March 2014
Derivative financial assets 71 – 71 – (16) 55
Derivative financial liabilities (57) – (57) – – (57)
Cash and cash equivalents 136 – 136 – – 136
Bank overdrafts (7) – (7) – – (7)
143 – 143 – (16) 127
The Group holds certain financial derivatives which are subject to credit support agreements. Under these agreements cash collateral is posted by one party to 
the other party should the fair value of the financial derivative exceed a pre-agreed level. At 14 March 2015, the Group held £10 million of collateral against 
financial derivatives (2014: £17 million). 
At 14 March 2015, Sainsbury’s Bank had no collaterised reverse repo transactions, (2014: £45 million fully collaterised by UK Gilts).
The Group operates a cash pooling arrangement and collective net overdraft facility with its main clearing bank. At 14 March 2015, the Group had a £8 million 
overdraft (2014: £7 million) under this facility. 
Market risk
(a) Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in exchange rates impacting the Group’s foreign currency denominated supply 
contracts. 
The Group’s currency risk policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on the Group’s income statement by requiring anticipated foreign 
currency cash flows to be hedged. The future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis from 20 per cent to 
80 per cent using forward contracts and options.
The Group has exposure to currency risk on balances held on foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing 
differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments. 
The Group considers that a ten per cent movement in exchange rates against sterling is a reasonable measure of volatility. The impact of a ten per cent 
movement in the exchange rate of US dollar and euro versus sterling at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, is summarised in the 
table below:
2015 2015 2014 2014
Change in 
exchange rate 
impact on 
post-tax  
loss +/-10%
£m
Change in 
exchange 
rate impact 
on cash flow 
hedge reserve 
+/-10%
£m
Change in 
exchange 
rate impact 
on post-tax 
profit +/-10%
£m
Change in 
exchange 
rate impact 
on cash flow 
hedge reserve 
+/-10%
£m
USD/GBP (3)/4 (25)/31 2/(2) (29)/36
EUR/GBP (1)/1 (10)/12 –/– (10)/12
(b) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk of increased costs or lower income arising from unexpected movements in interest rates and inflation rates impacting on the 
Group’s borrowing and investment portfolios. The Group’s interest rate policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating interest and inflation rates by maintaining 
a diversified mix of fixed rate, floating rate and variable capped rate liabilities. 
Interest on financial instruments is classified as fixed rate if interest re-set on the borrowings is greater than 12 months, floating rate where interest is re-set at 
intervals of one year or less and variable capped rate if interest is re-set at intervals of one year or less and the nominal interest rate is subject to a cap. Financial Statements
121
28 Financial risk management continued
The mix of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Variable 
capped
£m
Total
£m
At 14 March 2015
Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets – 37 – 37
Amounts due from Sainsbury's Bank customers 2,163 848 – 3,011
Cash and cash equivalents 656 629 – 1,285
Borrowings (1,291) (442) (834) (2,567)
Finance lease obligations (133) (66) – (199)
Amounts due to Sainsbury's Bank customers and banks (509) (3,152) – (3,661)
Derivative effect:
 Interest rate swaps (1,602) 1,602 – –
 Inflation linked swaps (350) – 350 –
Total (1,066) (544) (484) (2,094)
At 15 March 2014
Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets – 69 – 69
Amounts due from Sainsbury's Bank customers 1,948 627 – 2,575
Cash and cash equivalents 396 1,196 – 1,592
Borrowings (1,182) (515) (899) (2,596)
Finance lease obligations (123) (65) – (188)
Amounts due to Sainsbury's Bank customers (619) (2,928) – (3,547)
Derivative effect:
 Interest rate swaps (943) 943 – –
 Cross currency swaps (39) 39 – –
 Inflation linked swaps (300) – 300 –
Total (862) (634) (599) (2,095)
Further information relating to interest rate risk in Sainsbury’s Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsbury’s Bank financial risk factors below.
(i) Cash flow sensitivity for floating rate instruments
The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in interest rates is a reasonable measure of volatility. The sensitivity of floating rate balances to a change 
of 100 basis points in the interest rate (or such lesser amount as would result in a zero rate of interest) at the balance sheet date is shown below. 
2015
Impact on 
post-tax  
loss
£m
2015
Impact on 
cash flow 
hedge reserve
£m
2014
Impact on 
post-tax 
profit
£m
2014
Impact on cash 
flow hedge 
reserve
£m
Change in floating rate +/-100bps (10)/11 5/(4) (3)/– 2/(2)
(ii) Cash flow sensitivity for variable capped rate liabilities
The Group holds £nil capped floating rate borrowings (2014: £44 million) and £834 million of capped inflation-linked borrowings (2014: £855 million) of which 
£350 million (2014: £300 million) have been swapped into fixed rate borrowings using inflation rate swaps maturing April 2017 to April 2018. The Group has 
also entered into £50 million (2014: £100 million) of forward starting inflation rate swaps maturing April 2019. 
The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in the RPI rate is a reasonable measure of volatility. The sensitivity of variable capped balances to a 
change of 100 basis points in the RPI rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 
2015
Impact on 
post-tax  
loss 
£m
2015
Impact on 
cash flow 
hedge reserve
£m
2014
Impact on 
post-tax 
profit
£m
2014
Impact on cash 
flow hedge 
reserve
£m
Change in floating rate +/-100bps (4)/4 10/(10) (4)/4 13/(13) Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
122
28 Financial risk management continued
Commodity risk
Commodity risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in commodity prices impacting the Group’s own use consumption of 
electricity, gas and fuel. The Group’s Energy Price Risk Committee seeks to limit the impact by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel to be hedged.
The Group hedges own use consumption of electricity and gas with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with its suppliers. The Group 
uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference. 
The Group considers a ten per cent movement in commodity prices a reasonable measure of volatility.
2015
Impact on 
cash flow 
hedge reserve
£m
2014
Impact on  
cash flow 
hedge reserve
£m
Change in the fair value of the power, diesel and gasoil price +/-10% 2/(2) 3/(3)
Capital risk management
The Group defines capital as total equity plus net debt.
The Board’s capital objective is to maintain a strong and efficient capital base to support the Group’s strategic objectives, provide optimal returns for 
shareholders and safeguard the Group’s status as a going concern. There has been no change to capital risk management policies during the year. 
The Board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover. 
The Board can manage the Group’s capital structure by diversifying the debt portfolio, adjusting the size and timing of dividends paid to shareholders, 
recycling capital through sale and leaseback transactions, issuing new shares or repurchasing shares in the open market and flexing capital expenditure.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Group’s share option programmes; 
however the Group does not operate a defined share buy-back plan.
In November 2014, the Board announced a new affordable dividend policy under which dividend cover is fixed at two times underlying earnings for 2014/15 
and the next three years.
Part of the Group’s capital risk management is to ensure compliance with the general covenants and financial covenants included in the Group’s various 
borrowing facilities. There have been no breaches of covenant in the financial year ended 14 March 2015.
Information relating to Sainsbury’s Bank capital risk management is detailed in note 37.
Sainsbury’s Bank
The principal financial risks faced by Sainsbury’s Bank relate to liquidity and funding risk, counterparty credit risk (retail and wholesale) and market risk, 
including interest rate risk.
 
Liquidity and funding risk 
Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that the Bank is unable to meet its financial commitments as they are expected to fall due without an adverse impact on 
funding costs or profitability. The Bank’s liquidity risk management framework complies with the standards set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority 
(‘PRA’). The Bank has completed an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) that allows the Bank to demonstrate that it understands the liquidity 
risks it is running and has appropriate controls in place to mitigate them, including establishment of minimum levels of liquidity to be held. Limits are 
informed by a number of stress scenarios that assess the survival period of the Bank. In meeting internal limits as well as PRA requirements, the Bank 
maintains a portfolio of highly liquid assets that can be readily sold to meet the Bank’s obligations to depositors and other creditors. The portfolio is managed 
on a daily basis and within the framework as outlined in the ILAA and by the PRA.
In addition, the Bank prepares both long-term and short-term forecasts to assess liquidity requirements. Short-term forecasting covers a rolling 12 month 
period and takes into account factors such as ATM cash management, investment maturities and customer deposit patterns and balances.
Counterparty credit risk 
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from a retail customer or wholesale counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the 
Bank’s holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables 
and loans and advances to customers.
Credit risk in respect of retail lending customers is managed through automated credit decision techniques using both scorecards and policy rules for new 
applications. In addition, behavioural scoring is used to assess the conduct of customers’ accounts on an ongoing basis. Underwriting is undertaken by 
specialist teams in operational areas to complement these processes. The Retail Credit Risk Committee ensures that appropriate policies are established and 
adhered to and this is subject to further oversight from the Board Risk Committee. Internal Audit teams carry out regular reviews of credit risk processes and 
policies are reviewed and re-approved on an annual basis.
The credit exposure relating to off balance sheet items was £319 million (2014: £58 million), being £79 million (2014: £58 million) of undrawn loan 
commitments and £240 million (2014: £nil) of Treasury Bills obtained under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme (FLS). Sainsbury’s Bank had 
pledged the rights to a pool of Bank issued loans and advances to customers in exchange for FLS Treasury Bills which are accounted for off balance sheet 
but are available as a source of liquidity to the Bank. Financial Statements
123
28 Financial risk management continued
Credit quality per class of financial asset
Loans and advances to customers
Loans and advances to customers are summarised as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Impaired 107 103
Past due but not impaired 16 16
Neither past due nor impaired 2,970 2,540
Gross 3,093 2,659
Less: allowance for impairment (87) (83)
Less: hedging fair value adjustment 5 (1)
Net book value 3,011 2,575
Unsecured 
lending
£m
Secured 
lending
£m
Total
£m
At 14 March 2015
Past due and impaired
Less than three months, but impaired 2 – 2
Past due three to six months 6 – 6
Past due six to 12 months – – –
Past due over 12 months – 1 1
Recoveries 98 – 98
Possession – – –
Total gross impaired loans 106 1 107
Past due but not impaired
Past due less than three months but not impaired 14 2 16
Total gross past due but not impaired 14 2 16
Neither past due nor impaired
Not impaired 2,923 47 2,970
Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,923 47 2,970
Total gross amount due 3,043 50 3,093
At 15 March 2014
Past due and impaired
Less than three months, but impaired 2 – 2
Past due three to six months 7 1 8
Past due six to 12 months – – –
Past due over 12 months – 1 1
Recoveries 92 – 92
Possession – – –
Total gross impaired loans 101 2 103
Past due but not impaired
Past due less than three months but not impaired 13 3 16
Total gross past due but not impaired 13 3 16
Neither past due nor impaired
Not impaired 2,486 54 2,540
Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,486 54 2,540
Total gross amount due 2,600 59 2,659
Mortgages held over residential properties represent the only collateral held by the Bank for retail lending exposures. The fair value of collateral held for 
impaired secured loans and secured loans past due but not impaired was £8 million (2014: £10 million). The fair value of collateral held against possession 
cases was £nil (2014: £nil).
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market factors such as interest rates or 
foreign exchange rates. The Bank hedges all such risks within limits set by the Board Risk Committee. Exposures are managed and monitored using a variety of 
sensitivity measures to minimise volatility of earnings and economic value, taking into account expected future business flows. 
Interest rate risk
The Bank offers lending and saving products with varying interest rate features and maturities which create potential interest rate risk exposures. Short-term 
exposures under 12 months are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity to a variety of movements in interest rates. Potential 
exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are controlled through position and sensitivity limits, predominantly using Economic Value 
Equity (‘EVE’) measures for risk management purposes. Where residual balance sheet exposures exist, interest rate swaps are the primary hedging instrument 
used to mitigate that risk. The Bank does not operate a trading book. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
124
29 Financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been disclosed in the balance sheet as follows:
  Group Company
2015 2015 2014 2014 2015 2015 2014 2014
 
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Non-current 21 (38) 28 (21) 33 (18) 23 (10)
Current 69 (75) 49 (65) 44 (57) 48 (47)
Total 90 (113) 77 (86) 77 (75) 71 (57)
The fair value and notional amount of financial derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows:
  2015 2014
Asset Liability Asset Liability
Group 
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 21 733 (6) 1,435 26 548 – 895
Cross currency swaps – – – – – – – 23
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps – – (4) 150 – – – 50
Cross currency swaps – – – – – – (10) 90
Inflation rate swaps – – (14) 400 – – (5) 400
Foreign exchange forward contracts 26 268 (10) 118 1 126 (17) 323
Commodity contracts – – (8) 24 – – (1) 28
Derivatives not in a formal hedging 
relationship
Interest rate swaps 41 391 (38) 331 47 397 (44) 393
Cross currency swaps 2 17 (19) 89 – – (9) 167
Commodity contracts – – (14) 15 3 13 – –
Total 90 1,409 (113) 2,562 77 1,084 (86) 2,369
  2015 2014
Asset Liability Asset Liability
Company 
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 20 211 – – 24 211 – –
Cross currency swaps – – – – – – – 23
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps – – (4) 150 – – – 50
Cross currency swaps – – – – – – (4) 63
Derivatives not in a formal hedging 
relationship
Interest rate swaps 55 791 (52) 731 47 391 (44) 331
Cross currency swaps 2 17 (19) 89 – – (9) 167
Total 77 1,019 (75) 970 71 602 (57) 634
Fair value hedges
Interest rate and cross currency swaps
The Group holds a £211 million portfolio of interest rate and cross currency swaps (2014: £234 million) to hedge a portion of fixed rate borrowings. Under the 
terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest. The notional principal amount of one of the interest rate swaps 
amortises from £211 million to £111 million from April 2016 to April 2018. 
Sainsbury’s Bank and its subsidiaries hold a £1,957 million portfolio of interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges. Interest rate swaps are transacted 
to hedge the Bank’s customer assets and non-interest bearing items (including reserves) through a combination of pay and receive fixed swaps (£1,719 million 
and £238 million respectively). All derivatives are designated into effective fair value hedge accounting relationships.
For the year to 14 March 2015, the fair value movement in the Group’s interest rate swaps resulted in a charge to the income statement of £4 million 
(2014: £13 million charge). The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate borrowings and Sainsbury’s Bank loans and advances to customers resulted 
in a credit to the income statement of £4 million (2014: £13 million credit).  Financial Statements
125
29 Financial instruments continued
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate and cross currency swaps
The Group holds a £400 million (2014: £400 million) portfolio of inflation rate swaps to hedge a portion of the inflation linked secured loan due 2031. Under the 
terms of the swaps, the Group receives annual RPI inflation (subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent) and pays fixed rate interest.
The Group holds a £150 million portfolio of interest rate swaps (2014: £113 million portfolio of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps) to hedge a 
£50 million fixed rate bank loan due 2015 and £100 million of a £200 million floating rate bank loan due 2019. Under the terms of the swaps, the Group 
receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised loss of £18 million (2014: £12 million loss) is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the swaps in cash flow 
hedges. This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next four years. 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
The Group holds a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its future foreign currency trading liabilities. At 14 March 2015 the Group had 
forward purchased €153 million (2014: €129 million) and sold sterling at exchange rates ranging from 1.20 to 1.41 (2014: 1.14 to 1.23) with maturities from 
March 2015 to January 2017 (2014: March 2014 to December 2015) and forward purchased US$407 million (2014: US$533 million) and sold sterling at 
exchange rates ranging from 1.50 to 1.70 (2014: 1.48 to 1.67) with maturities from March 2015 to June 2016 (2014: March 2014 to June 2015).
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised profit of £12 million (2014: loss of £13 million) is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the forward contracts. 
This profit will be transferred to the income statement over the next 21 months. During the year a charge to the income statement of £13 million was 
transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales (2014: £3 million charge).
 
Commodity forward contracts
The Group holds a portfolio of commodity forward contracts to hedge its own use fuel consumption over the next 24 months.
 
At 14 March 2015, an unrealised loss of £7 million (2014: loss of £1 million) is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the commodity contracts. 
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next 24 months.
Derivatives not in a hedge relationship
Some of the Group’s derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or, where the gains or losses on the derivative contract economically offset the 
underling hedged item, are not designated in a hedging relationship. 
Interest rate and cross currency swaps
The Group holds a £331 million (2014: £331 million) portfolio of interest rate swaps at FVTPL to convert floating rate obligations into fixed rates. Under the 
terms of the swaps the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest. Offsetting these swaps the Group holds a £391 million (2014: £391 
million) portfolio of interest rate swaps at FVTPL, to convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate interest. Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives 
fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest. 
The Group holds an £89 million (2014: £167 million) portfolio of cross currency swaps at FVTPL to convert floating rate borrowings denominated in Euro and 
US dollars into floating rate sterling borrowings. The Group holds a £17 million (2014: £nil) cross currency swap to hedge a Hong Kong dollar intercompany 
loan due September 2015.
Commodity forward contracts
Commodity forward contracts at FVTPL relates to the Group’s long-term fixed price power purchase agreements with independent producers. 
Fair value 
Set out below is a comparison of the carrying amount and the fair value of financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements at a value other 
than fair value. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices available from the market on which the instruments are traded. Where 
market values are not available, the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates. The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, overdrafts and payables are assumed to approximate to their book values.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
126
29 Financial instruments continued
 
Group 
Carrying
amount
£m
Group 
Fair value
£m
Company
Carrying
amount
£m
Company 
Fair value
£m
At 14 March 2015
Financial assets
Amounts owed by Group entities – – 2,758 2,950
Other receivables 344 344 – –
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers
1
3,011 3,024 – –
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to Group entities – – (5,201) (5,278)
Loans due 2018
2
(873) (950) – –
Loans due 2031 (834) (1,012) – –
Bank overdrafts (9) (9) – –
Revolving credit facility due 2017 (120) (120) (120) (120)
Bank loans due 2015 (86) (86) (86) (86)
Bank loans due 2016 (35) (35) (35) (35)
Bank loans due 2017 – – – –
Bank loans due 2019 (200) (200) (200) (200)
Convertible bond due 2019 (410) (475) (410) (475)
Finance lease obligations (199) (199) – –
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks (3,661) (3,661) – –
At 15 March 2014
Financial assets
Amounts owed by Group entities – – 2,651 3,233
Other receivables 273 273 – –
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers
1
2,575 2,582 – –
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to Group entities – – (5,290) (5,385)
Loans due 2018
2
(956) (1,053) – –
Loans due 2031 (855) (1,013) – –
Bank overdrafts (13) (13) (7) (7)
Revolving credit facility due 2017 (200) (200) (200) (200)
Bank loans due 2014 (69) (75) (25) (25)
Bank loans due 2015 (188) (188) (188) (188)
Bank loans due 2016 (42) (42) (42) (42)
Bank loans due 2017 (60) (60) (60) (60)
Convertible bond due 2014 (189) (193) (189) (193)
Other loans due 2015
3
(24) (24) (24) (24)
Finance lease obligations (188) (188) – –
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers (3,547) (3,543) – –
1 Includes £1,957 million accounted for as a fair value hedge (2014: £1,232 million).
2 Includes £211 million accounted for as a fair value hedge (2014: £211 million). 
3 Includes £nil accounted for as a fair value hedge (2014: £23 million).
The fair value of financial assets as disclosed in the table above at 14 March 2015 was £3,368 million (2014: £2,855 million). The fair value of the financial 
assets has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair value of financial 
liabilities was £6,747 million (2014: £6,592 million). £475 million (2014: £193 million) has been determined using market values and is within Level 1 of the 
fair value hierarchy. £6,272 million (2014: £6,399 million) has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and is within Level 2 of the 
fair value hierarchy. Financial Statements
127
29 Financial instruments continued
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the 
fair value is observable:
 — Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the balance sheet 
date. This level includes listed equity securities and debt instrument on public exchanges;
 — Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). The fair value of financial instruments is determined by discounting expected cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates; and 
 — Level 3 fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market 
data (unobservable inputs).
Group
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
At 14 March 2015
Available-for-sale financial assets
Interest bearing financial assets – 37 – 37
Other financial assets – – 145 145
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets – 90 – 90
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities – (99) (14) (113)
Group
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
At 15 March 2014
Available-for-sale financial assets
Investment securities – 32 – 32
Interest bearing financial assets – 37 – 37
Other financial assets – – 184 184
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets – 74 3 77
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities – (86) – (86)
Company
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
At 14 March 2015
Available-for-sale financial assets
Interest bearing financial assets – 37 – 37
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets – 77 – 77
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities – (75) – (75)
Company
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
At 15 March 2014
Available-for-sale financial assets
Interest bearing financial assets – 37 – 37
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial assets – 71 – 71
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative financial liabilities – (57) – (57) Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
128
29 Financial instruments continued
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities:
52 weeks to 14 March 2015
Available-for-sale 
financial assets
£m
Commodity 
derivatives 
£m
Total
£m
At 16 March 2014 184 3 187
In finance cost in the Group income statement – (17) (17)
In other comprehensive income (39) – (39) 
At 14 March 2015 145 (14) 131
52 weeks to 15 March 2014
Available-for-sale 
financial assets
£m
Commodity 
derivatives 
£m
Total
£m
At 17 March 2013 154 4 158
In finance cost in the Group income statement – (1) (1)
In other comprehensive income 30 – 30 
At 15 March 2014 184 3 187
The available-for-sale financial assets relate to the Group’s beneficial interest in a property investment pool. The net present value of the Group’s interest in 
the various freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of 0.8 per cent per annum 
(2014: three per cent) and a discount rate of nine per cent (2014: nine per cent), (see note 15). The sensitivity of this balance to changes of one per cent in the 
assumed rate of property rental growth and one per cent in the discount rate holding other assumptions constant is shown below:
2015
Change in growth 
rate +/- 1.0%
£m
2015
Change in discount  
rate +/- 1.0%
£m
2014
Change in growth 
rate +/- 0.5%
£m
2014
Change in discount 
rate +/- 1.0%
£m
Available-for-sale assets 16/(15) (11)/10 10/(11) (17)/15
The Group has entered into several long-term fixed price Power Purchase agreements with independent producers. Included within derivative financial 
liabilities is £14 million (2014: £3 million within derivative financial assets) relating to these agreements. The Group values its Power Purchase agreements as 
the net present value of the estimated future usage at the contracted fixed price less the market implied forward energy price discounted back at the prevailing 
swap rate. The Group also makes an assumption regarding expected energy output based on the historical performance and the producer’s estimate of 
expected electricity output. The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 20 per cent in the assumed rate of energy output and 20 per cent in the implied 
forward energy prices holding other assumptions constant is shown below:
2015
Change  
in volume  
+/- 20.0%
£m
2015
Change in 
electricity forward 
price +/- 20.0%
£m
2014
Change  
in volume  
+/- 20.0%
£m
2014
Change in  
electricity forward 
price +/- 10.0%
£m
Derivative financial instruments 3/(3) 17/(18) 1/(1) 10/(10)
Financial assets and liabilities by category
Set out below are the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 14 March 2015 and 15 March 2014.
Group
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Fair value through 
profit or loss
£m
Derivatives 
 used for hedging
£m 
Other financial  
liabilities
£m
Total 
£m
At 14 March 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 – – – – 1,285
Trade and other receivables 445 – – – – 445
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers 3,011 – – – – 3,011
Available-for-sale financial assets – 184 – – – 184
Trade and other payables – – – – (2,935) (2,935)
Current borrowings – – – – (260) (260)
Non-current borrowings – – – – (2,506) (2,506)
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers and banks – – – – (3,661) (3,661)
Derivative financial instruments – – (28) 5 – (23)
4,741 184 (28) 5 (9,362) (4,460)
At 15 March 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 – – – – 1,592
Trade and other receivables 398 – – – – 398
Amounts due from Sainsbury’s Bank customers 2,575 – – – – 2,575
Available-for-sale financial assets – 255 – – – 255
Trade and other payables – – – – (2,675) (2,675)
Current borrowings – – – – (534) (534)
Non-current borrowings – – – – (2,250) (2,250)
Amounts due to Sainsbury’s Bank customers – – – – (3,547) (3,547)
Derivative financial instruments – – (3) (6) – (9)
4,565 255 (3) (6) (9,006) (4,195) Financial Statements
129
29 Financial instruments continued
Company
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Fair value through 
profit or loss
£m
Derivatives used  
for hedging
£m
Other financial  
liabilities
£m 
Total
£m
At 14 March 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 92 – – – – 92
Trade and other receivables 2,758 – – – – 2,758
Available-for-sale financial assets – 37 – – – 37
Trade and other payables – – – – (5,220) (5,220)
Current borrowings – – – – (87) (87)
Non-current borrowings – – – – (764) (764)
Derivative financial instruments – – (14) 16 – 2
2,850 37 (14) 16 (6,071) (3,182)
At 15 March 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 136 – – – – 136
Trade and other receivables 2,651 – – – – 2,651
Available-for-sale financial assets – 37 – – – 37
Trade and other payables – – – – (5,320) (5,320)
Current borrowings – – – – (341) (341)
Non-current borrowings – – – – (394) (394)
Derivative financial instruments – – (6) 20 – 14
2,787 37 (6) 20 (6,055) (3,217)
30 Retirement benefit obligations
Retirement benefit obligations relate to a defined benefit scheme, the Sainsbury’s Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’), and an unfunded pension liability relating 
to senior employees. The Scheme is governed by a Trustee board and the assets of the Scheme are held separately from the Group’s assets. The Scheme 
is a Registered pension plan with HMRC, subject to UK legislation with oversight from the Pensions Regulator. The governance of the Scheme is the 
responsibility of the Trustee; the Trustee comprises 11 Directors – five selected from members, five appointed by the Company and one Independent 
Chairman. In accordance with legislation, the Trustee consults with the Company regarding the Scheme’s investment strategy and agrees an appropriate 
funding plan with the Company.
The Scheme has three different benefit categories: Final Salary, Career Average and Cash Balance. For Final Salary and Career Average members, benefits at 
retirement are determined by length of service and salary. For Cash Balance members, benefits are determined by the accrued retirement account credits.
 
The Scheme was closed to new employees on 31 January 2002 and closed to future accrual on 28 September 2013. A one-off past service credit was 
recognised in 2013/14 as a result as disclosed in note 3. The assets of the Scheme are valued at bid price and are held separately from the Group’s assets.
The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation, carried out by Towers Watson, at 17 March 2012 on the projected unit basis. The results of this 
valuation were finalised in August 2013 and a recovery plan agreed. Under the Scheme’s recovery plan, the Company will pay annual deficit contributions of 
£49 million per annum for eight consecutive financial years to 2020. This plan is reviewed once every three years, with the next valuation effective date in 
March 2015 and statutory completion date in June 2016.
The retirement benefit obligations at the year-end have been calculated by KPMG, as actuarial advisers to the Group, using the projected unit credit method 
and based on adjusting the position at 17 March 2012 for known events and changes in market conditions as allowed under IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’. 
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the 
event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
Sainsbury’s Property Scottish Limited Partnership
Further to the funding plan agreed with the Scheme’s Trustees, on 17 June 2010 Sainsbury’s established the Sainsbury’s Property Scottish Partnership (the 
‘Partnership’) with the Scheme. Under this arrangement, properties to a fair value of £256 million were transferred to the Partnership. On 25 March 2011, 
further properties to a fair value of £501 million were transferred to the Partnership. Both transfers were effected via a 30 year sale and leaseback arrangement.
The Scheme’s interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution for 20 years to 2030. The amount of this distribution is linked to the triennial 
actuarial valuation and will therefore vary once every three years. The annual distribution in previous years has been approximately £33 million and for 
2015/16 it is expected to be in the region of £29 million. These contributions will be in addition to the Group’s normal cash contributions paid to the Scheme 
annually. The properties transferred to the Partnership will revert to Sainsbury’s ownership in 2030 in return for a cash payment equal to the amount of any 
remaining funding deficit on the Scheme at that time, up to a maximum of £600 million. 
The Partnership is controlled by Sainsbury’s and its results are consolidated by the Group. The Group’s balance sheet, IAS 19 deficit and income statement are 
unchanged by the establishment of the Partnership. The investment held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of 
the Group’s consolidated financial statements and is therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets. The value of the properties transferred to the 
Partnership remains included within the Group’s property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet. In addition, the Group retains full operational flexibility 
to extend, develop and substitute the properties within the Partnership. Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
130
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Present value of funded obligations (7,680) (6,855)
Fair value of plan assets 6,988 6,131
(692) (724)
Present value of unfunded obligations (16) (13)
Retirement benefit obligations (708) (737)
Deferred income tax asset 57 58
Net retirement benefit obligations (651) (679)
The retirement benefit obligation and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
(a) Income statement
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Included within underlying profit before tax:
 IAS 19 defined benefit service cost – (34)
Included in employee costs (note 7) – (34)
Excluded from underlying profit before tax:
 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities
1
(288) (290)
 Interest income on plan assets 257 267
Total included in finance costs (note 6) (31) (23)
Defined benefit pension scheme expenses (6) (7)
Past service credit
2
– 158
Total excluded from underlying profit before tax (note 3) (37) 128
Total income statement (expense)/credit (37) 94
1 Includes interest of £1 million for the unfunded pension scheme (2014: £nil).
2 One-off items presented within note 3 also include transition payments to defined contribution schemes of £17 million (2014: £10 million).
Of the expense recognised in operating profit, £nil (2014: £21 million) is included in cost of sales and £nil (2014: £13 million) is included in administrative 
expenses. A past service credit of £nil (2014: £158 million) has been recognised in administrative expenses. 
(b) Other comprehensive income
Remeasurements of the retirement benefit obligations have been recognised as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 696 70
Actuarial losses arising from changes in:
 Financial assumptions
1
(735) (416)
 Experience 20 20
Total actuarial losses (715) (396)
Total remeasurements (19) (326)
1 Includes £2 million for the unfunded pension scheme (2014: £nil). Financial Statements
131
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
(c) Valuations
The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
As at the beginning of the year (6,855) (6,460)
Current service cost – (34)
Past service credit – 158
Interest cost (287) (290)
Contributions by plan participants – (3)
Remeasurement losses (713) (396)
Benefits paid 175 170
As at the end of the year (7,680) (6,855)
The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
As at the beginning of the year 6,131 5,841
Interest income on plan assets 257 267
Pension scheme expenses (6) (7)
Remeasurement gains 696 70
Contributions by employer 85 127
Contributions by plan participants – 3
Benefits paid (175) (170)
As at the end of the year 6,988 6,131
The Group’s expected contributions to the defined benefit scheme for the next financial year beginning 15 March 2015 are £83 million (2014: £86 million). 
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2015
%
2014
%
Equities 27 29
Government bonds 14 6
Corporate bonds 34 36
Property 4 4
Other 21 25
100 100
The fair value of plan assets split between those which have a quoted market price in an active market and those which are unquoted is as follows:
2015 
Quoted
£m
2015 
Unquoted
£m
2015
Total
£m
2014 
Quoted
£m
2014 
Unquoted
£m
2014 
Total
£m
Equities 1,704 215 1,919 1,592 209 1,801
Government bonds 979 – 979 355 – 355
Corporate bonds 2,422 (21) 2,401 2,173 57 2,230
Property 274 7 281 218 11 229
Other 712 696 1,408 644 872 1,516
6,091 897 6,988 4,982 1,149 6,131 Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
132
30 Retirement benefit obligations continued
(d) Assumptions
The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2015
%
2014
%
Discount rate 3.50 4.25
Inflation rate – RPI 3.00 3.40
Inflation rate – CPI 2.00 2.40
Future salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 1.80 – 2.85 2.15 – 3.20
The discount rate is based on the yield on AA-rated sterling corporate bonds appropriate to the term of the Scheme’s liabilities.
The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age (now 65 years for men and women) is as follows: 
2015
years
2014
years
Male pensioner 22.7 22.6
Female pensioner 25.4 25.3
The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a future pensioner at normal retirement age is as follows:
2015
years
2014
years
Male pensioner 24.5 24.4
Female pensioner 27.3 27.2
The base mortality assumptions are based on the SAPS tables, with adjustments to reflect the Scheme’s population, with future improvements based on the 
CMI 2011 projection with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25 per cent per annum. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21 years (2014: 21 years).
(e) Sensitivities
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by £755 million. A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount 
rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by £880 million. 
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by £505 million. A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate 
would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by £480 million.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by £240 million.
The sensitivities are based on management’s best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change. The sensitivities are calculated using the same methodology 
used to calculate the retirement benefit obligation, by considering the change in the retirement benefit obligation for a given change in assumption. The net 
retirement benefit obligation is the difference between the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. Changes in the assumptions may 
occur at the same time as changes in the fair value of plan assets. There has been no change in the calculation methodology since the prior period. 
(f) Other disclosures
The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market (investment) risk. The Group is 
not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or Scheme specific risks.
 
The Trustee’s investment strategy mitigates some of these risks. Market (investment) risk is addressed by diversification across asset classes and investment 
managers. Approximately 75 per cent of the Scheme’s non-sterling asset exposure is hedged back to sterling. A framework governs the hedging of interest rate 
and inflation risk exposures with a 60 per cent (2014: 50 per cent) hedging target for both. Physical assets and derivative instruments are used to hedge these 
risks. The target hedge ratios and the hedging framework are kept under review by the Trustee and the Company is consulted when changes are made to 
either. The Trustee does not currently hedge longevity risk although prudent assumptions are made regarding anticipated longevity for the purposes of the 
Actuarial Valuation and Recovery Plan. Financial Statements
133
31 Share-based payments
The Group recognised £21 million (2014: £33 million) of employee costs (note 7) related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year. 
Of these, £nil (2014: £nil) were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions. At 14 March 
2015, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was £6 million (2014: £7 million) of which £nil (2014: £1 million) was in respect of 
vested grants.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below:
(a) Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave)
The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months’ continuous service. This is an 
approved HMRC Scheme and was established in 1980. Under Sharesave, participants remaining in the Group’s employment at the end of the three-year or 
five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price. Employees leaving for certain reasons 
are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 14 March 2015, UK employees held 25,016 five-year savings contracts (2014: 21,445) in respect of options over 22.6 million shares (2014: 20.4 million) and 
39,675 three-year savings contracts (2014: 24,950) in respect of options over 32.4 million shares (2014: 27.9 million). A reconciliation of option movements is 
shown below:
 
2015 
Number of 
options
million
2015 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
pence
2014 
Number of 
options
million
2014 
Weighted 
average  
exercise price
pence
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 48.3 279 47.1 261
Granted 23.5 213 13.7 332
Forfeited (9.2) 288 (5.4) 277
Exercised (7.6) 247 (6.9) 266
Expired – 261 (0.2) 257
Outstanding at the end of the year 55.0 254 48.3 279
 
Exercisable at the end of the year 5.8 253 3.3 260
The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 290 pence (2014: 346 pence). The weighted average remaining 
contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 2.4 years (2014: 2.3 years).
Details of options at 14 March 2015 are set out below:
Date of grant Date of expiry
Exercise price
 pence 
Options 
outstanding
2015 
million 
Options 
outstanding
2014 
million 
17 December 2008 (5 year period) 31 August 2014 224 – 1.7
10 December 2009 (5 year period) 31 August 2015 273 2.5 3.1
10 December 2010 (3 year period) 31 August 2014 297 – 1.6
10 December 2010 (5 year period) 31 August 2016 297 2.8 3.3
9 December 2011 (3 year period) 31 August 2015 238 3.5 8.7
9 December 2011 (5 year period) 31 August 2017 238 4.1 4.7
12 December 2012 (3 year period) 31 August 2016 267 6.4 8.0
12 December 2012 (5 year period) 31 August 2018 267 3.1 3.7
11 December 2013 (3 year period) 31 August 2017 332 6.7 9.5
11 December 2013 (5 year period) 31 August 2019 332 2.9 4.0
12 December 2014 (3 year period) 31 August 2018 213 15.8 –
12 December 2014 (5 year period) 31 August 2020 213 7.2 –
      55.0 48.3 Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
134
31 Share-based payments continued
Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value 
calculations. The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2015 2014
Share price at grant date (pence) 265 415
Exercise price (pence) 213 332
Expected volatility – 3 year period (%) 21.9 18.8
  – 5 year period (%) 21.2 20.8
Option life – 3 year period (years) 3.2 3.2
 – 5 year period (years) 5.2 5.2
Expected dividends (expressed as dividend yield %) 5.6 4.5
Risk-free interest rate – 3 year period (%) 1.6 2.2
 – 5 year period (%) 2.1 3.5
Fair value per option – 3 year period (pence) 43 74
 – 5 year period (pence) 41 87
The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Group’s share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the 
period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for management’s view of future volatility of the share price.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three or five years, as appropriate, on the assumption that 25 per cent of options will be 
cancelled over the service period as employees leave the Sharesave Scheme.
(b) Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the senior managers in the Company. The core awards are calculated as a 
percentage of the participants’ salaries and scaled according to grades. 
The awards granted between 2006 and 2011 will vest if the threshold levels of two co-dependent performance conditions – Return on Capital Employed 
(‘ROCE’) and growth in cash flow per share – are achieved over the three-year performance period. The award granted in 2012 and 2013 is assessed against 
ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, with an Earnings Per Share gateway. The award 
granted in 2014 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index. The core award 
can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance. Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points. Awards are 
structured as nil cost options. 
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period. If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 
50 per cent of the award will be released. Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released one year after 
the vesting date. Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date. Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the 
form of additional shares. 
 
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met:
Targets to achieve maximum multiplier
Date of conditional award Cash flow per share % Return on capital employed %
21 June 2010 15 15
19 May 2011 12 15
Targets to achieve maximum multiplier
Date of conditional award Cumulative underlying cash flow Return on capital employed % Relative sales
17 May 2012 £6,500m 12 Index+1% p.a.
16 May 2013 £6,500m 12 Index+1% p.a.
15 May 2014 £6,750m 12 Index+1% p.a.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below:
 
2015 
million
2014 
million
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7.0 9.1
Conditionally allocated 2.1 1.9
Forfeited (0.8) (0.4)
Released to participants (2.2) (3.6)
Outstanding at the end of the year 6.1 7.0
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.5 years (2014: 1.3 years). Financial Statements
135
31 Share-based payments continued
Details of shares conditionally allocated at 15 March 2014 are set out below: 
Date of conditional award
2015
million
2014
million
24 June 2009 – 0.1
21 June 2010 0.2 1.6
19 May 2011 0.7 1.5
17 May 2012 1.6 1.9
16 May 2013 1.6 1.9
15 May 2014 2.0 –
6.1 7.0
Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value 
calculations. The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
  2015 2014
Share price at grant date (pence) 334 384
Expected volatility (%) 20.9 15.3
Option life (years) 4.2 4.2
Risk-free interest rate (%) 2.7 1.6
Fair value per option (pence) 334 384
The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Group’s share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the 
period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for management’s view of future volatility of the share price.
In March 2014, the three-year performance targets were met achieving a multiplier of 1.60 (2013: 1.75). During the year, a total number of 1.6 million shares 
were granted to employees as a result of achieving the performance target and 4.6 million options were exercised. The weighted average share price during 
the year for options exercised was 322 pence (2014: 378 pence).
(c) Deferred Share Award
The Deferred Share Award targets a diverse range of business critical financial and strategic scorecard measures. These are intended to reward the top 40 
managers in the Company, including Executive Directors, for driving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term 
growth of the Company. Awards are structured as nil cost options. 
Share-based awards will be made to participants subject to performance against a basket of measures. At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the 
delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders. The balance will be based on measures which will assess the Company’s performance relative to 
its competitors as well as key strategic goals.
Performance against the target is measured over one financial year, but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that management’s 
interests continue to be aligned with those of shareholders. The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their 
release date. Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below:
 
2015
million
2014
million
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.6 3.6
Granted 1.5 1.3
Exercised (1.6) (2.3)
Outstanding at the end of the year 2.5 2.6
The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below:
 
2015
million
2014
million
17 May 2012 – 1.3
16 May 2013 1.2 1.3
15 May 2014 1.3 –
2.5 2.6
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.5 years (2014: 1.5 years). Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
136
31 Share-based payments continued
(d) Bonus Share Award
The bonus arrangements for our senior managers and supermarket store managers include corporate and personal performance targets. A profit gateway is 
in place which means that a certain level of underlying profit before tax must be achieved before any bonus related to the corporate element of the bonus 
is released. 
60 per cent of the bonus is paid in cash and 40 per cent converted into shares, which are automatically released after three financial years. The share element 
of the bonus arrangement is called the Bonus Share Award. Bonus Shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to 
their release date. Dividends accrue on these shares and are released at the end of the three-year retention period. Our top 40 managers do not receive Bonus 
Share Awards as they receive Deferred Share Awards.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below:
 
2015
million
2014
million
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7.5 3.5
Granted 3.9 4.4
Lapsed (1.2) (0.4)
Outstanding at the end of the year 10.2 7.5
The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below:
 
2015
million
2014
million
17 May 2012 3.0 3.3
16 May 2013 3.7 4.2
15 May 2014 3.5 –
10.2 7.5
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 14 March 2015 was 1.2 years (2014: 1.7 years).
32 Related party transactions
Group
In the prior year, the Group sold two properties with a fair value of £103 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership, a Scottish partnership in which the 
Group has a 0.001 per cent interest, and subsequently entered into a 25 year lease of these properties. The operations of the partnership are controlled by the 
J Sainsbury Pension Scheme and the Group has significant influence over the partnership by virtue of its contractual rights as General Partner to participate in 
the financial and operating policy decisions of the partnership. The partnership is therefore treated as an Investment in Associate in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements and accounted for using the equity method. The gain on the disposal of the properties recognised outside of underlying profit was £nil 
(2014: £10 million) and lease payments made to the partnership during the year were £6 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership (2014: £3 million to 
Manor Property Scottish Partnership).
(a) Key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board. The key management 
personnel compensation is as follows:
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 10 11
Post-employment employee benefits 1 1
Share-based payments 9 10
  20 22
Nine key management personnel had credit card balances with Sainsbury’s Bank (2014: nine). These arose in the normal course of business and were 
immaterial to the Group and the individuals. Three key management personnel held saving deposit accounts with Sainsbury’s Bank (2014: nine). 
These balances arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals. Financial Statements
137
32 Related party transactions continued
(b) Joint ventures and associates
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
For the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Management services (received)/provided (1) 16
Remeasurement of previously held equity interest in Sainsbury’s Bank – 15
Revenue share received from joint ventures 17 4
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans – 1
Dividend and distributions received 70 1
Proceeds from repayment of loan to joint venture 17 4
Investment in joint ventures and associates (12) (13)
Increase in loans to joint ventures – (7)
Rental expenses paid (65) (72)
Purchase of assets – (24)
Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Receivables
Other receivables 37 21
Loans due from joint ventures 2 18
Payables
Loans due to joint ventures (5) (5)
(c) Retirement benefit obligations
As discussed in note 30, the Group has entered into an arrangement with the Pension Scheme Trustee as part of the funding plan for the actuarial deficit in the 
Scheme. Full details of this arrangement are set out in note 30 to these financial statements.
Company
(a) Subsidiaries
The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis. Hence, the Company incurs interest 
expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances. The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
Transactions with subsidiaries
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Acquisition of Sainsbury’s Bank – (248)
Repayment of floating rate subordinated dated/undated loan capital from Sainsbury’s Bank
1
60 50
Investment in Sainsbury’s Bank (59) (70)
Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries 
Loans and advances given 229 236
Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries (45) (138)
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 201 183
Dividend income received 252 250
Loans and advances received from subsidiaries 
Loans and advances received (275) (282)
Loans and advances repaid 21 218
Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances (56) (132)
1  The £60 million dated subordinated loan capital was repaid in December 2014 (2014: £50 million undated subordinated loan capital was repaid in February 2014 following agreement in writing from the 
Prudential Regulation Authority).  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
138
32 Related party transactions continued
Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Receivables
Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 2,758 2,591
Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital – 60
Payables
Loans and advances due to subsidiaries (5,201) (5,290)
(b) Joint ventures and associates
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
For the 52 weeks to 14 March 2015, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Investment in joint ventures (12) –
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans – 1
Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Receivables
Loans due from joint ventures – –
Payables
Loans due to joint ventures (5) (5)
33 Operating lease commitments
The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses 
and renewal rights.
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Aggregate future minimum lease payments:    
Within one year 585 554
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,171 2,071
After five years 7,040 6,402
  9,796 9,027
Further analysis of the Group’s future minimum lease payments after five years is as follows:
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Aggregate future minimum lease payments:  
Greater than five years but less than ten years 1,897 1,811
Greater than ten years but less than 15 years 1,319 1,252
After 15 years 3,824 3,339
  7,040 6,402
The commercial terms of the Group’s operating leases vary, however they commonly include either a market rent review or an index linked rent review (with a 
cap and collar). The timing of when rent reviews take place differs for each lease. The Group has pre-emption rights over a minor number of properties, which 
provides the Group with the right of first refusal to purchase the property in the event the landlord chooses to sell. The option price payable for the asset in each 
instance is normally referenced to current market value prevailing at the point of pre-emption. 
For the purposes of calculating adjusted net debt, the total value of the Group’s capitalised operating lease commitments is £5,417 million (2014: £5,095 million).
The Group sublets certain leased properties: 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Aggregate future minimum lease receipts:  
Within one year 34 25
In the second to fifth years inclusive 120 86
After five years 123 104
  277 215 Financial Statements
139
34 Capital commitments
The Group has entered into contracts totalling £164 million (2014: £230 million) for future capital expenditure in relation to property, plant and equipment and 
£13 million (2014: £nil) for intangible assets not provided for in the financial statements. 
The Company does not have any capital commitments (2014: £nil).
35 Financial commitments
Sainsbury’s Bank has off balance sheet financial instruments committing it to extend credit to customers of £79 million (2014: £58 million).
36 Contingent liabilities
The Group has a contingent liability for indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries. No provision has been recognised on the basis that any potential 
liability arising is not considered probable. It is not possible to quantify the impact of this liability with any certainty.
The Company has no contingent liabilities and has issued no guarantees under Companies Act 2006 Section 394A or 479C.
37 Capital resources
The following table analyses the regulatory capital resources of Sainsbury’s Bank (before any Group adjustments), being the regulated entity, under both 
transitional and end point measures of CRD IV for which there is no difference. CRD IV regulations are being phased in over a five-year period from 2013 to 2018: 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Core Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital:
 Ordinary share capital 299 240
 Allowable reserves 184 138
 Losses recognised (26) –
 Regulatory adjustments (104) (35)
Total Core Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital 353 343
Tier 1 Capital 353 343
Tier 2 capital:
 Qualifying subordinated debt – 10
Total Tier 2 capital – 10
Total capital 353 353
Regulatory capital is calculated under the Capital Requirements Regulations and Capital Requirements Directive (collectively known as CRD IV) as enacted in 
the UK. Core Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital includes ordinary share capital, other reserves, losses and regulatory deductions. Tier 2 capital held at 28 February 
2014 represented the amortised value of dated subordinated debt which was repaid to J Sainsbury plc on maturity in December 2014. There is a regulatory 
requirement that Tier 2 capital must not exceed 25 per cent of total capital. The Bank meets this requirement.
The movement of CET 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows:
2015
£m
At 1 March 2014 343
Share capital issued 59
Verified profit attributable to shareholders
1
46
Losses recognised (26)
Increase in intangible assets (69)
Increase in other regulatory deductions –
At 28 February 2015 353
1  Relates to Bank audited profits to December 2013 which were not recognised in regulatory reserves in the prior year financial statements. These were not yet verified by the Bank’s auditors at the 
accounting date. It is now standard industry practice to include annual profits in reserves for the period to which they relate, providing these have been verified prior to the date the financial statements are 
signed. Losses are recognised as a deduction from CET 1 capital as they arise.  Financial Statements 
Notes to the financial statements continued
140
37 Capital resources continued
Leverage ratio (unaudited)
The leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted assets. The denominator represents the total non-risk weighted assets adjusted for certain 
off balance sheet exposures assets and regulatory deductions and provides a no-risk-weighted ‘backstop’ capital measure. The leverage ratio is planned to 
become a Pillar 1 measure from 1 January 2018. The leverage ratio is calculated below as at 28 February 2015 – this represents both transitional and end point 
CRD IV measures. The Bank’s leverage ratio of 7.4 per cent exceeds the minimum Basel leverage ratio of three per cent. The Financial Policy committee of the 
Bank of England are currently consulting on additional leverage requirements for UK banks.
2015
£m
Components of the leverage ratio
Total assets as per published financial statements 4,236
Removal of accounting value of derivatives and securities financing transactions (1)
Exposure value for derivatives and securities financing transactions 5
Off balance sheet exposures: unconditionally cancellable (10%) 313
Off balance sheet: other (100%) 318
Deduction of intangible assets (104)
4,767
Tier 1 capital 353
Leverage ratio 7.4%
Capital management
The Bank manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities. 
During the period to 28 February 2015, the Bank has repaid dated subordinated liabilities of £60m (amortised to £nil within Tier 2 regulatory capital upon 
maturity) and has received planned injections of £59m of ordinary share capital to support the forecast costs and deductible intangible assets generated 
through the development of flexible banking platforms. Capital adequacy is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management, the Asset and Liability 
Committee, the Executive Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee. Our submissions to the PRA in the year have shown that the Bank has complied with 
all externally imposed capital requirements.
The Bank will disclose Pillar 3 information as required by the Capital Requirements Regulations and PRA prudential sourcebook on the J Sainsbury plc external 
website during June 2015.
38 Post balance sheet event
On 5 May 2015, the Group refinanced its unsecured £1,150 million syndicated revolving credit facility due 2019 with a new secured recourse £1,150 million 
syndicated revolving credit facility due 2020. The new secured corporate facility is the same size as, and has substantially similar economic terms to, the 
previous unsecured facility, with the structure also maintained on a dual tranche basis (a £500 million Facility (A) due April 2018 and £650 million Facility (B) 
due April 2020). The new facility, which is secured against 60 supermarket properties with a net book value of £1.4 billion, contains no financial covenants.
On 5 May 2015, the Group amended its £200 million unsecured bank loan due November 2019 and its €50 million unsecured bank loan due September 2016 
into a secured recourse £200 million bank loan due November 2019 and a secured recourse €50 million bank loan due September 2016. The amended bank 
loans, which are secured against ten supermarket properties with a net book value of £0.2 billion, contain no financial covenants. Financial Statements
141
  2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Financial results (£m)
Underlying sales (including Value Added Tax, including fuel, including Bank) 26,122 26,353 25,632 24,511 22,943
 
Underlying operating profit
Retailing 720 873 831 789 738
Financial services 62 6 – – –
782 879 831 789 738
Underlying net finance costs
1
(107) (111) (111) (109) (97)
Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 6 30 38 32 24
Underlying profit before tax
1,2
681 798 758 712 665
(Decrease)/increase on previous year (%) (14.7) 5.3 6.5 7.1 9.0
Retail underlying operating margin (%)
3
3.07 3.65 3.57 3.54 3.50
 
Earnings per share 
Underlying basic (pence)
2
26.4 32.8 30.8 28.1 26.5
(Decrease)/increase on previous year (%) (19.5) 6.5 9.6 6.0 10.9
Proposed dividend per share (pence)
4
13.2 17.3 16.7 16.1 15.1
Retail statistics for UK food retailing 
Number of outlets at financial year-end 
 over 55,000 sq ft sales area 106 101 94 81 64
 40,001 – 55,000 sq ft sales area 132 127 123 123 124
 25,001 – 40,000 sq ft sales area 143 146 147 152 155
 15,000 – 25,000 sq ft sales area 115 116 118 115 113
 under 15,000 sq ft sales area 808 713 624 541 478
1,304 1,203 1,106 1,012 934
Sales area (000 sq ft) 22,819 22,160 21,265 20,347 19,108
Net increase on previous year (%)
5
3.0 4.2 4.5 6.5 7.7
New stores
5
106 104 101 92 68
Sales intensity (including Value Added Tax)
5
Per square foot (£ per week) 18.24 18.93 19.27 19.47 20.04
1  Net finance costs pre-retail financing fair value movements, IAS 19 pension financing (charge)/credit and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
2  Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations before any gain or loss on the sale of properties, investment property fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, retail financing fair value 
movements, IAS 19 pension financing (charge)/credit, defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature. 
3 Retail operating margin based on retail sales excluding Value Added T ax, including fuel, excluding Sainsbury’s Bank.
4 Total proposed dividend in relation to the financial year.
5 Includes all convenience stores and convenience acquisitions. 
Five year financial record 142
Additional Shareholder Information 
Financial calendar 2015/16
Dividend payments
Ordinary dividend:
Ex-dividend date 14 May 2015
Record date 15 May 2015
Final dividend payable 10 July 2015
Ex-dividend date 19 November 2015
Record date 20 November 2015
Interim dividend payable 4 January 2016
Other dates
Annual General Meeting – London 8 July 2015
Interim results announced 11 November 2015
Interim report available at j-sainsbury.co.uk 11 November 2015
Preliminary Results announced 4 May 2016
Annual General Meeting – London 6 July 2016
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday, 8 July 2015 at QEII 
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The Notice 
of the Meeting and the proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with 
this report.
Registrars 
For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to 
report changes to personal details, shareholders should contact:
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Telephone: 0870 702 0106
Please remember to tell Computershare if you move house or change 
bank details or if there is any other change to your account 
information.
You can view and manage your shareholding online at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. You will require your 11 character 
Shareholder Reference Number (‘SRN’) to log in. Your SRN starts with 
the letter C or G and is followed by ten numbers. It can be found on 
share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
Having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building 
society account is a more secure way than receiving your dividend by 
cheque. If you would prefer your dividends to be paid directly into 
your bank or building society account further information is available 
from Computershare Investor Services (address and telephone 
number above). You will still receive a tax voucher detailing each 
dividend to enable you to complete your tax return to HMRC.
Shareholder communications
Company website
J Sainsbury plc Interim and Annual Reports, and results 
announcements are available via the internet on our website at 
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk. As well as providing share price data and 
financial history, the site also provides background information about 
the Company, regulatory and news releases, and current issues. 
Shareholders can receive email notification of results and press 
announcements as they are released by registering on the page 
called ‘Email news service’ in the Investor section of the website.
Annual Report and Financial Statements
The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 (the ‘ Annual 
Report’) is published on our website at www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/
investor-centre/reports and has only been sent to those shareholders 
who have asked for a paper copy. Shareholders who have not 
requested a paper copy of the Annual Report have been notified  
of its availability on the website. 
A paper copy of the Annual Report is available by writing to 
the Company Secretary, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, 
33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT or you can email your request to  
investor.relations2@sainsburys.co.uk.
Electronic shareholder communications
The Company encourages all shareholders to receive their 
shareholder communications electronically in order to reduce our 
impact on the environment. Shareholders can register their email 
address at www.etreeuk.com/jsainsbury and for each new 
shareholder that does so we will make a donation to the Tree for All 
campaign run by the Woodland Trust. By registering with the eTree 
programme you will be giving the Company permission to send all 
shareholder documents to you via email with a link to a secure website.
Alternatively, the Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take 
advantage of electronic communications. The service allows you to:
 — view the Annual Report and Financial Statements on the day it is 
published;
 — receive electronic notification of the availability of future shareholder 
information (you must register your email for this service);
 — check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view your 
dividend history; and
 — submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
For more information, to view the terms and conditions, and to register 
for the service, log on to www.j-sainsbury.co.uk/investors, click on 
‘Shareholder Centre’ and then follow the instructions on screen. 
Alternatively, register by visiting www.investorcentre.co.uk. 
For all methods, you will require your 11 character Shareholder 
Reference Number which can be found on your share certificate or 
latest tax voucher.
Investor relations
For investor enquiries please contact: Duncan Cooper, Head of 
Investor Relations, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, 33 Holborn, 
London EC1N 2HT . 
Additional shareholder information 143
Additional Shareholder Information 
Shareholder profiles
End of year information at 14 March 2015
2015 2014
Number of shareholders 116,509  117,937
Number of shares in issue 1,919,433,342 1,907,210,915
By size of holding
2015
Shareholders 
%
2014 2015
Shares
%
2014
500 and under 62.23 61.70 0.43 0.43
501 to 1,000 12.22 12.34 0.56 0.58
1,001 to 10,000 23.46 23.80 4.00 4.10
10,001 to 100,000 1.63 1.66 2.35 2.50
100,001 to 1,000,000 0.32 0.35 6.66 7.46
Over 1,000,000 0.14 0.15 86.00 84.93
100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
By category of shareholder
2015
Shareholders 
%
2014 2015
Shares
%
2014
Individual and other shareholders 91.26 90.70 5.84 5.80
Insurance companies 0.06 0.08 0.03 0.03
Banks and Nominees 8.33 8.87 91.74 91.02
Investment Trusts 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.01
Pension Funds 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Other Corporate Bodies 0.31 0.31 2.37 3.13
100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Shareholder services
Share dealing services
To buy or sell your J Sainsbury plc ordinary shares, please visit your 
stockbroker or a high street bank who will usually be able to assist 
you. Alternatively, you may consider using:
 — The Share Centre Ltd who offer a postal dealing service and they can be 
contacted at The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, 
Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB. Telephone: 01296 414141 or freephone 
08000 282812 and quote ‘Sainsbury’s’; or
 — Computershare who offer a telephone and internet facility which gives 
shareholders the opportunity to trade at a known price. The telephone 
service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding 
bank holidays, on telephone number 0870 703 0084. The internet share 
dealing service gives shareholders the option to submit instructions to 
trade online and more information can be found by visiting www.
computershare.com/sharedealingcentre. 
Further information and detailed terms and conditions are available 
on request by calling either provider.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’)
The Company has a DRIP , which allows shareholders to reinvest their 
cash dividends in the Company’s shares bought in the market through 
a specially arranged share dealing service. No new shares are allotted 
under this DRIP and approximately 29,193 shareholders participate in 
it. Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, 
are available from the Registrars. Alternatively, you can elect to join the 
DRIP by registering for Investor Centre at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Key dates for the final dividend are as follows:
Last date for return of revocation of DRIP mandates 19 June 2015
DRIP shares purchased for participants 10 July 2015
DRIP share certificates issued 21 July 2015
Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’)
A corporate ISA is available from The Share Centre Ltd and offers a 
tax efficient way of holding shares in the Company. For further 
information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, 
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB. Telephone: 01296 414141 or 
freephone 08000 282812 and quote ‘Sainsbury’s’.
American Depository Receipts (‘ADRs’) 
The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for which The 
Bank of New York Mellon acts as depositary. 
The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter (‘OTC’) market in the US 
under the symbol JSAIY, where one ADR is equal to four ordinary shares. 
All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: 
BNY Mellon 
Shareowner Services 
PO Box 30170 
College Station
TX 77842-3170
Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-269-2377
International callers can call: +1-201-680-6825 
Website: www.mybnymdr.com
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
ShareGift
If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for 
you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating 
them to the charity ShareGift (Registered Charity 1052686) which 
specialises in accepting such shares as donations. The relevant stock 
transfer form may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services 
PLC. There are no implications for Capital Gains T ax purposes (no gain 
or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain 
income tax relief. Further information about ShareGift may be 
obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.sharegift.org.  144
Additional Shareholder Information 
Continued
Share fraud
Over the past few years we have been aware, as have many listed companies, that our shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters. Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that 
often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own. These calls come from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler 
rooms’ that are mostly based abroad. Further information on how to avoid share fraud or report a scam can be found on our website at 
www.j-sainsbury.co.uk
Dividends
Financial year 04/05 05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15
Interim 2.15p 2.15p 2.40p 3.00p 3.60p 4.00p 4.30p 4.50p 4.80p 5.00p 5.00p
Final 5.65p 5.85p 7.35p 9.00p 9.60p 10.20p 10.80p 11.60p 11.90p 12.30p 8.20p
Total net 7.80p 8.00p 9.75p 12.00p 13.20p 14.20p 15.10p 16.10p 16.70p 17.30p 13.20p
The 2014/15 interim dividend was paid on 2 January 2015.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers
The Company has adopted the Consolidated T ax Voucher (‘CTV’) 
process in relation to dividend payments. This means that those 
shareholders receiving their dividend direct into their bank account 
will receive a CTV once a year detailing all payments made 
throughout that year.
Tax information – Capital Gains Tax (‘CGT’)
For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 
1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was 91.99 pence and B 
shares 10.941 pence.
Share capital consolidation
The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary shares 
of 28 4/7 pence and B shares is made by reference to the market 
value of each class of shares on the first day for which a market value 
is quoted after the new holding came into existence. The market 
value for CGT purposes of any share or security quoted on the Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations 
on any day plus one quarter of the difference between the values.
On Monday, 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows:
New ordinary shares 257.5 pence 
B shares 35 pence
General contact details
Share price information is available on the Company’s website, in the 
financial press and the Cityline service operated by the Financial 
Times (Telephone: 0906 003 3904).
For general enquiries about Sainsbury’s Finance call: 0500 405 060.
For any customer enquiries please contact our Customer Careline by 
calling: 0800 636 262.
Registered office and advisers
Registered office
J Sainsbury plc
33 Holborn
London EC1N 2HT
Registered number 185647
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Solicitors
Linklaters LLP
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
Stockbrokers
UBS  Morgan Stanley
1 Finsbury Avenue 25 Cabot Square
London EC2M 2PP Canary Wharf
   London E14 4QA
Cautionary statement
Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward 
looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and 
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied because they relate to future events. 
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, 
statements relating to the Company’s expectations. Forward-looking 
statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology 
including the words: ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, 
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘goal’, ‘target’, ‘aim’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or 
‘should’ or, in each case, their negative or other variations or 
comparable terminology and include all matters that are not 
historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout this 
Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, 
beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Directors and 
employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of 
operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies 
and the businesses we operate. Consequently, our actual future 
financial condition, performance and results could differ materially 
from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking 
statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise. 145
Active Kids – Our nationwide scheme to 
help inspire school children to take more 
exercise and to eat more healthily. Launched 
in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, 
primary and secondary schools as well as 
Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK. 
www.sainsburys.co.uk/activekids
Annual General Meeting (AGM) – This year 
the AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 July 
2015 at QEII Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
basics – Sainsbury’s entry level own-brand 
range of products.
bps – Basis points.
Brand Match – Initiative using market-
leading technology guaranteeing price 
match on the basket of comparable grocery 
branded goods with Asda. Over 12,000 
branded grocery lines are included and the 
initiative works by offering customers who 
buy ten or more unique items and at least 
one branded product, a coupon at the till. We 
even include promotions provided the same 
number of products are bought. Maximum 
value of coupons £10.
by Sainsbury’s – Core own label brand.
Click & Collect – Service which allows 
customers to place general merchandise 
orders online for collection from over 900 
stores.
CMBS – Commercial Mortgage Backed 
Securities.
Collection – Sainsbury’s own-brand general 
merchandising products.
Company – J Sainsbury plc.
Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability (CR&S) – The need to act 
responsibly in managing our impact on a 
range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, 
investors, suppliers, the community and the 
environment.
CPI – Consumer Price Index.
Dividend cover – Underlying profit after tax 
from continuing operations attributable to 
equity shareholders divided by total value 
of dividends declared during the year.
Earnings Per Share (EPS) – Earnings 
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
parent divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during 
the year, excluding those held by ESOP 
Trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
EBITDAR – Earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and rent.
ESOP Trusts – Employee Share Ownership 
Plan Trusts.
Fairtrade – The Fairtrade label is an 
independent consumer label that guarantees 
a fair deal for marginalised workers and 
small scale farmers in developing countries. 
Producers receive a minimum price that 
covers the cost of production and an extra 
premium that is invested in the local 
community. 
www.fairtrade.org.uk
Fair value – The amount for which an asset 
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, 
between knowledgeable, willing parties in an 
arm’s length transaction.
FTSE4Good – The FTSE Group, an indexing 
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to 
measure the performance of companies that 
meet CR standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies. 
www.ftse.com/products/indices/
FTSE4Good
FVTPL – Fair value through profit or loss. 
Method of valuing a financial instrument 
where changes in fair value are recognised 
directly in the income statement.
Gearing – Net debt divided by net assets.
Group – The Company and its subsidiaries.
IFRIC – International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee.
IFRSs – International Financial Reporting 
Standard(s).
Income Statement – Formerly known as 
the profit and loss account under UK GAAP .
Joint venture (JV) – A business jointly 
owned by two or more parties.
Kantar Worldpanel – An independent third 
party providing data on the UK Grocery 
Market.
Life Well For Less – Sainsbury’s customer 
commitment to continue to help people live 
the life they want to live, with quality 
products at fair prices.
Like-for-like sales – The measure of 
year-on-year same store growth.
LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan.
MSC – Marine Stewardship Council.
Nectar – The most popular loyalty scheme 
in the UK, of which Sainsbury’s is a partner.
Non-controlling interest – The equity in 
a subsidiary not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, to the Company.
OFT – Office of Fair Trading.
PRA – Prudential Regulation Authority.
Real discount rate – Discount rate less 
inflation rate.
ROCE – Return on capital employed.
RPI – Retail Price Index.
Taste the Difference – Sainsbury’s 
premium own-brand range of products.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) – The 
growth in value of a shareholding over a 
specified period, assuming that dividends 
are reinvested to purchase additional units of 
the stock.
Tu – Sainsbury’s own label clothing range.
Underlying basic earnings per share – 
Profit after tax from continuing operations 
attributable to equity holders of the parent 
before any profit or loss on the disposal of 
properties, investment property fair value 
movements, impairment of goodwill, 
retailing financing fair value movements, the 
financing element of IAS 19, defined benefit 
pension scheme expenses, acquisition 
adjustments arising from the Sainsbury’s 
Bank acquisition, and one-off items that are 
material and infrequent in nature, divided by 
weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year, excluding those held 
by ESOP trusts, which are treated as 
cancelled.
Underlying cash flow from operations –  
Underlying cash generated from operations 
before net rent and cash payments to the 
pension scheme. 
Underlying operating profit – Underlying 
profit before tax from continuing operations 
before underlying net finance costs and 
underlying share of post-tax profit or loss 
from joint ventures.
Underlying profit before tax – Profit before 
tax from continuing operations attributable 
to equity holders of the parent before any 
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, 
investment property fair value movements, 
impairment of goodwill, retailing financing 
fair value movements, the financing element 
of IAS 19, defined benefit pension scheme 
expenses, acquisition adjustments arising 
out of the Sainsbury’s Bank acquisition, and 
one-off items that are material and 
infrequent in nature.
Glossary 146
Achievements
Convenience Retailer of the Year
For the fifth year running, we won Convenience 
Retailer of the Year at the 2014 Retail Industry 
Awards.
Green Retailer of the Year
We received our second consecutive Green 
Retailer of the Year award at the 2014 Grocer 
Gold Awards. Amongst other environmental 
initiatives, our Triple Zero stores and CO
2
 
refrigerated vehicles were recognised.
Training Initiative of the Year 
Our commitment to helping colleagues make 
the difference for our customers was recognised, 
with our Great Produce programme winning 
Training Initiative of the Year at the Retail 
Industry Awards. 
Grocer 33 Availability Award 
We won the Grocer 33 Availability Award, based 
on the mystery shopping trips The Grocer carries 
out every week in supermarkets across the UK.
Seafood Retailer of the Year
We won the Seafood Retailer of the Year category 
at the Retail Industry Awards.
Grocer 33 Customer Service Award 
We won the Grocer 33 Customer Service Award, 
based on the mystery shopping trips The Grocer 
carries out every week in supermarkets across 
the UK.
Drinks Retailer of the Year
We were awarded Drinks Retailer of the Year for 
the third consecutive year at the Retail Industry 
Awards.
CDP Climate Performance 
Leadership Index 2014
We were awarded a position in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project’s (‘CDP’) Climate Performance 
Leadership Index 2014, recognising our work 
to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the 
business risk of climate change. 
FTSE4Good
We have been part of the FTSE4Good index 
since its inception in 2001. The index evaluates 
businesses against key social, environmental 
and governance practices. 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
We were the only UK company to be ranked as 
a Sustainability Leader in the ‘Food and Staples 
Retailing’ category of the 2014 Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index. This year we outperformed 
92 per cent of our industry and obtained the 
highest score for environmental performance 
worldwide.
MSC Fish Retailer of the Year
In recognition of selling the widest range of 
Marine Stewardship Council (‘MSC’) certified 
products, we received the 2014 MSC Fish Retailer 
of the Year award.
Freedom Food Awards
We won Best Retailer at the 2014 Freedom Food 
Awards for our outstanding contribution to farm 
animal welfare.
Recruitment Industry Disability 
Initiative (‘RIDI’) Awards
We were recognised at the inaugural RIDI Awards 
2014, for excellence in candidate sourcing. Since 
2008, our You Can scheme has helped over 
24,000 people facing barriers to work.
Investors in People Gold
Since 2010 we have maintained Gold 
accreditation for our commitment to improve 
our business by investing in our colleagues. 
We are the only supermarket ever to receive 
this accolade.  147
Notes 148
Notes This report is printed on UPM Fine.  
The printer is certified to the 
environmental management system 
ISO 14001 and is also CarbonNeutral
TM
The FSC logo identifies products which 
contain wood from well managed forests 
certified in accordance with the rules of the 
Forest Stewardship Council. FSC Trademark 
© 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A.C. Our colleagues 
make the 
difference.
Our values make 
us different.
