 Transforming 
Local Media
Johnston Press plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 was a year of transformation  
– and success – for Johnston Press. 
With refinancing completed, and a renewed sense of optimism in the Company, 
Johnston Press was hailed as one of the “most intriguing turnaround stories  
in the UK market”
 *
. 
The transition to digital continued apace with audiences across our news print and  
web products reaching 27 .3 million
**
 – and plans to reshape the way we deliver our 
news to those audiences were embraced by our editorial staff. 
But it was the dedication and commitment shown by the Johnston Press teams across 
the business through a challenging year which ensured we remained relevant in the 
markets we serve as we positioned the Company for continued growth.
* Peel Hunt, November 2014.
**   Average total monthly audience. Source Webtrends (Digital) and Matrix (Print). 
Internal Johnston Press analytic tools. 
Strategic Report
At a Glance 2
2014 Financial Highlights  3
Chairman’s Statement  4
Chief Executive Officer’s Report  6
Market Trends 8
Our Business Model and Strategy  10
Our Strategy in Action  12
Key Performance Indicators  18
Principal Risks and Uncertainties  21
Operational Review  23
Financial Review  26
Corporate Social Responsibility  33
Directors’ Governance
Chairman’s Introduction to  
Corporate Governance 39
Board of Directors 40
Corporate Governance 42
Report of the Audit Committee 47
Directors’ Remuneration Report –  
Annual Statement 49
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 51
Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration 60
Directors’ Report  67
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 71
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of Johnston Press plc 72
Group Income Statement  76
Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income  77
Group Statement of Changes in Equity  78
Group Statement of Financial Position  79
Group Cash Flow Statement  80
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements  81
Group Five-Year Summary  121
Company Balance Sheet 122
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  123
Advisers  IBC
Discover the most read
1
2
3
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
Second consecutive year of underlying 
profit growth. 
Page 6
Financial Review
Refinancing completed. 
Page 26
Operational Review
Focus on delivering key audience  
and development strategies. 
Page 23 1 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
201 4 stories at a glance
Record coverage for  
the Scottish Referendum.
Page 13
The go-to paper for news  
of the Tour de France.
Page 38
2.8% underlying 
profit growth.
Our sales programme success.
Page 23
Commonwealth media  
glory in Glasgow.
New ways our readers are interacting with content.
Page 8
How we performed  
financially in 2014.
Page 26
Forging ahead  
with our strategy.
Page 10
27 .3 million
*
 
average total  
2014 audience.
*  Source: Webtrends (Digital) and Matrix (Print).  
Internal Johnston Press analytic tools. 
The media market and its impact on us.
Page 8
John Giles/PA Wire
Ian Georgeson/Edinburgh Evening News
Bryn Lennon/Getty Images
The Gazette, Blackpool Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2
201 4 will certainly be a year to 
remember – events across the 
country put our brands firmly  
in the spotlight. 
At a glance
Print
Our portfolio contains 193 paid  
for weekly newspapers, 13 paid for 
daily newspapers, 38 free titles and 
10 lifestyle magazines.
Digital
Our average monthly digital  
audience is 16.7 million², with  
41% of our digital audience accessing  
our websites via a mobile device.
Nationally
We sold 127 million paid  
for copies and distributed  
42 million free copies¹. 
Our digital products had over  
1.29 billion page views². 
254 
Publications in total
169m 
Copies distributed
16.7m 
Monthly digital 
audience
1.29bn 
Page views
¹ Source: Matrix
² Source: Webtrends
Our news and commercial teams rose to the 
challenge of delivering world-class content 
throughout the year. From the Scottish 
Independence Referendum (see page 13)  
to the Commonwealth Games to Le Grand 
Depart of the Tour de France (see page 38),  
our teams stepped up and gave master classes 
in delivering excellence across our news sites, 
Twitter, Facebook and, of course, in print. 
Local campaign successes – including that of 
The Yorkshire Post’s award-winning ‘Loneliness: 
The Hidden Epidemic’ (see page 34) – cemented 
our titles at the heart of their communities. 
And, as ever, our teams led the way with 
breaking news and in-depth analysis. 
And in this most poignant of years we were 
proud to embark on a unique partnership with 
the Royal British Legion to mark the centenary 
of the outbreak of World War One and support 
British veterans (see page 35).  3 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
2013
2014 265.9m
278.2m 2013
2014 20.9%
19.4% 2013
2014 55.5m
54.0m
2013
2014 29.9m
8.9m 2013
2014 0.76p
5.46p 2013
2014 23.9m
291.4m
2013
2014 28.8m
24.0m 2013
2014 136.9m
149.9m 2013
2014 165.7m
173.9m
2013
2014 184.6m
302.0m 2013
2014 194.2m
304.4m
Total underlying
2
  
revenue (page 26)
Underlying
2
 operating profit 
margin (page 26)
Underlying
2
 digital revenue  
(page 26)
Net Debt  
(page 31)
Underlying
2
 profit before tax 
(page 26)
Underlying
2
 operating profit 
(page 26)
Underlying
2
 print advertising 
revenue (page 26)
Underlying earnings per share
3 
(Note 14 and page 30)
Statutory loss before tax  
(page 26)
Underlying
2
 total advertising 
revenue (page 26)
Net debt excluding  
mark-to-market (page 31)
£265.9 million -4.4% 20.9% +1.5%
£28.8 million + 20.0%
£184.6 million -38.9%
£29.9 million +235.1%
£55.5 million +2.8%
£136.9 million -8.7%
0.76p -86.08% £23.9 million -91.8%
£165.7 million -4.7%
£194.2 million -36.2%
¹  Results are shown for continuing operations.
²  Underlying results exclude Exceptional items (Note 6) and include adjustments made to remove the 53 week effect, reflect the impact of pension plan admin expenses recognised due  
to the adoption of IAS 19R (Note 24), share-based payments (Note 31) and disposed titles as well as the impact of the termination of the News International printing contracts in 2013.  
The Financial Review section explains these adjustments in further detail.
³  Weighted average number of shares in 2014 were 3,520 million compared to 237.8 million in 2013.
Improved underlying operating  
profit showing fundamental strength.
2014 Financial Highlights
1 4 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategy
The successful completion of our refinancing 
plan in June 2014 has helped to provide a 
level of financial stability which has allowed 
us to focus on the pursuit of our increasingly 
digital strategic objectives. The refinancing saw 
£140 million being raised through a placing 
and rights issue and a further £220.5 million 
through the issue of bonds. In addition, we 
agreed a new £25 million revolving credit facility 
(which remains undrawn) and entered into 
revised pension arrangements. The refinancing 
allowed us to exit from our previous borrowing 
arrangements – lengthening the duration of  
our borrowing facilities, significantly reducing 
the Company’s financing costs and removing 
the operational restrictions which those  
facilities imposed. One effect of the placing  
and rights issue was that the Company had 
a very large number of shares in issue with a 
correspondingly low share price. The 50 to one 
share consolidation we undertook towards 
the end of the year addressed this, placing our 
share price at a more appropriate level.
Throughout 2014 we have continued to focus 
on our strategic priorities. We have remained at 
the forefront of our sector’s shift to digital and 
our initiatives in 2015 will seek to maintain that 
advantage. I have previously identified our digital 
business as key to our future and our plans to 
change the way in which we create content in 
our newsrooms and structure our sales teams 
to reflect this. We are working hard to deliver a 
return to revenue growth and have reached the 
digital tipping point on 290 occasions in 2014¹.  
It is essential that we drive further digital growth 
while continuing to protect our print-based 
revenues. Our key initiatives are set out in detail 
in the Strategic Report.
Results
Although the latter part of the year saw 
increased economic confidence, trading for the 
year as a whole continued to be affected by 
challenging economic conditions in many parts 
of the UK. In addition, our results reflect the 
increased investment in very targeted aspects  
of the business. Overall, the strong performance 
in some categories of our business was very 
encouraging. Total statutory revenues were 
affected by the disposal of our business in 
the Republic of Ireland in April and ended the 
year down 7.3% from £290.0 million to £268.8 
million. Statutory print advertising was down 
8.2% from £150.4 million to £138.1 million. 
Combined print and digital advertising revenue 
was down 4.2% to £167.2 million in 2014; whilst 
underlying advertising revenue was down 4.7%. 
The overall rate masks several areas of strong 
performance with employment total underlying 
advertising revenue growth of 3.4% leading the 
drive towards the advertising tipping point. 
Once again, underlying digital revenues grew 
strongly in the year by 20.0% from £24.0 million 
to £28.8 million. Property, motors and local 
display all joined employment in showing strong 
year-on-year growth.
Underlying newspaper sales revenue, 
supported by cover price increases, was down 
4.8% from £81.8 million to £77.9 million. 
Underlying operating costs were reduced to 
£210.4 million from £224.2 million in 2013,  
a £13.8 million year-on-year reduction net of 
investment in the digital business, reflecting 
our focus on cost leadership. Our programme 
of process and efficiency improvements and 
digital investment will continue in 2015. 
The resulting statutory operating profit was 
£10.7 million, a significant improvement on 
the prior year operating loss of £245.7 million 
including exceptional items. On an underlying 
basis, operating profit was up 2.8% from  
£54.0 million to £55.5 million with underlying 
operating profit margins improving from  
19.4% to 20.9% year-on-year. 
Underlying basic earnings per share, from 
continuing operations, was 0.76p, compared  
to 5.46p in 2013, comparatives have been 
restated to show additional bonus and rights 
issues of the Capital Refinancing Plan and 
share consolidation (Refer Note 14 and 27 for 
further detail). Statutory loss after tax, from 
continuing operations, was £15.3 million (2013: 
£215.7 million loss). Cash flow performance in 
the second half of the year benefited from the 
impact of the refinancing. Net debt at the end 
of the year was £184.6 million, a reduction of 
£117.4 million on 2013.
Total pre-tax exceptional items were  
£53.8 million (2013: £300.2 million). The 2014 
exceptional items included £24.5 million of 
write-down or impairments on publishing titles, 
property and assets held for sale, £16.5 million 
of restructuring and pension costs, £4.6 million 
relating to our long term incentive plans,  
£9.1 million of financing costs resulting from  
the refinancing and a £0.9 million gain on 
property disposals. More information on the 
exceptional items can be found in the Financial 
Review section of this report and Note 6 of the 
financial statements.
201 4 was the year we started to  
see signs of an improving economic 
climate and further positive results 
from delivery of our strategy.
We have seen another year of profound change, both for the Company and the industry in 
which we operate. Throughout this time we have continued to innovate and to maintain our 
place at the forefront of the changes in our sector .
Chairman’s Statement
¹  Digital tipping point is defined where 2014 revenue exceeds 2013 revenue within a category, within a Publishing Unit, within a given month.  5 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Dividend
As we explained when details of the refinancing 
were announced, the provisions of our bonds 
restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends 
until certain conditions are met. Although the 
Board wishes to resume dividend payments as 
soon as is appropriate, no dividend is proposed 
for the year.
Industry Issues
2014 marked the establishment of the 
Independent Press Standards Organisation 
(IPSO) as a new independent monitoring  
and complaints body for our industry. We  
have joined IPSO and believe it offers a  
system of redress which is both accessible  
and effective for those with a complaint while 
being tough, fair and proportionate for local 
newspapers. We have used the launch of the 
organisation to review our internal and external 
procedures to ensure that they comply with 
IPSO’s requirements. 
Board
I would like to thank my Board colleagues  
for their leadership, particularly during the 
refinancing process in the first half of the year. 
In order to ensure stability during that time, the 
Board determined that it would not review its 
make up until the completion of the refinancing.
The Board regularly reviews both the balance  
of its membership and the issues it considers 
when it meets. The agenda for the Board’s 
meetings continue to be structured to 
scrutinise both strategic and operational 
matters in an atmosphere of constructive 
challenge and debate. I am satisfied that the 
Board remains effective.
Employees
We are well aware of the hard work of our 
employees and the considerable change they 
have seen in recent years. On behalf of the 
Board I again wish to express our gratitude to 
them for their dedication. Once more they have 
continued to deliver high quality work and play 
an essential role in our ambition to be the fabric 
which binds local people with local businesses.
Outlook
We are seeing encouraging results from 
focusing on those areas of growth which  
have the potential to deliver the greatest 
benefit. Our aim is to continue to improve  
our effectiveness in all areas of the business 
whilst driving innovation for the benefit of our 
audience and our advertisers. We plan to seek 
to take advantage of not only that innovation, 
but also more favourable conditions in some  
of our markets and the beneficial platform that 
the refinancing has given us to improve our 
performance in 2015.
Ian Russell
Chairman
It is essential that we 
drive further digital 
growth while continuing 
to protect our print 
based revenues. 6 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2014 was the second consecutive year where 
we posted underlying operating profit growth,  
a satisfying achievement given that growth in 
2013 followed seven years of operating profit 
decline. It was also a year in which we were 
hailed as one of the most attractive turnaround 
stories in the UK market¹, with Digital Kitbag and 
Sky Adsmart heralded as exciting initiatives. 
Review of the Year
Underlying digital advertising grew by 20.0%, 
with strong growth in key categories such as 
Entertainment (WOW247) growing by 244%, 
The Smartlist, one of our employment offerings, 
grew by 211%, Motors up 88%, Property up 
52% and Local Display up 19%.
Our aggregate audiences have continued to 
grow; our average monthly audience for the 
year was 27.3 million, up from 24.5 million in 
2013, a growth of 11.4%. A key driver for this 
growth was our digital audience which grew by 
35.8% from an average in 2013 of 12.3 million 
unique users a month, to an average of 16.7 
million in 2014.
Our digital kitbag offering had its first full  
year, having launched in late 2013, and an 
agreement was signed with Sky to sell their  
Sky AdSmart solution. Both of these initiatives 
support our advertisers to target the customers 
more precisely and with a clear return on 
investment I’m excited about these and other 
digital initiatives that we will deliver in 2015.  
In October 2014 alone we sold digital kitbag 
offerings to 390 new customers.
We were instrumental in developing  
and launching the 1XL initiative which 
will substantially change the way national 
advertisers engage with local press for digital 
advertising. 1XL is a collaboration of local and 
regional press organisations that gives us a truly 
national reach. This is yet another initiative that 
will support our objective of top line advertising 
revenue growth in 2015 and beyond.
In 2012 we extended our existing lending 
facilities through to September 2015. The 
terms of those facilities provided strong 
incentives to implement a debt refinancing 
by the end of 2014. I am pleased to report 
that in 2014 we achieved that through a 
fundamental restructuring of our debt, and 
pension obligations, which has provided a more 
balanced capital structure with a significant 
reduction in leverage and in turn has provided 
a significantly improved platform for the 
Company to continue its strategic initiatives. 
At the end of 2014, our net debt stood at 
£184.6 million, down from £302.0 million at  
the end of 2013. With this substantial reduction 
of debt we have also been able to secure a 
lower interest rate and therefore a significantly 
reduced interest charge and we have also 
extended the maturity of our debt. This saving 
will allow us to increase the investments we 
make in our business in order to deliver on  
our strategic objectives, while continuing to  
pay down debt.
We managed production costs tightly and 
supported by lower prices for paper, we 
reduced our production costs by 3.3%. We 
recorded savings across pre-press, printing, 
newsprint and distribution. Our total underlying 
costs, driven by headcount reductions reduced 
by £13.8 million, net of investment in our digital 
business, a year-on-year reduction of 6.2%. 
All this supported underlying operating profit 
growth of 2.8%.
Priorities for 2015
Significant progress has been made in 
implementing the longer-term vision for the 
future of Johnston Press with changes and 
innovations being undertaken to grow our 
audiences, transform our revenue base and 
maintain our cost leadership position.
Transformation programmes such as 
‘Newsroom of the Future’, alongside new ways 
of working in our sales and operational teams, 
will be key to how we adapt to our changing 
environment, and the new approach will enable 
our teams across the business to concentrate 
on the things that are most important – 
delivering what our readers and advertisers 
want, in a cost effective and efficient manner.
The focus on quality will continue to be key.  
We want to achieve a big increase in customer 
and reader satisfaction by continuing to 
improve our end-to-end processes across  
our sales and editorial functions. To enable 
these priorities, we are focusing on two core 
transformation programmes in 2015, which 
have already started to make substantial 
progress. These projects are:
Audience strategy – driven by the ‘Newsroom  
of the Future’ project, a concept that we piloted 
during 2014 and will roll out this year. This will 
re-engineer our newsrooms to equip us to cope 
with the demands of reporting in the modern 
age. In the future our newsrooms will deliver;
• Larger and more engaged digital audiences
• An improvement in the print product
• More contributed/user generated content 
will appear on more platforms, more of  
the time
• Staff will have new workflows, technology 
and tools, freeing up time for more 
investigative journalism and improving 
productivity, whilst reducing costs.
Second consecutive year of  
underlying operating profit growth.
During 2014 we continued at pace to transform our business into a modern multimedia 
organisation; the changes implemented supported us in continuing to meet our strategic 
objectives of growing an engaged audience base and returning our business to top  
line growth.
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
¹ Source: Peel Hunt, November 2014. 7 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
At the end of 201 4, 
our net debt stood 
at £1 84.6 million, 
down from £302.0 
million at the end  
of 2013.
Commercial strategy – we are starting to pilot 
new models for our sales teams and equipping 
our operational teams to work in different 
ways, enabling both to deliver high quality and 
effective solutions for our customers. Salesforce 
of the future will aim to;
• Retain more existing customers
• Improve yields
• Move to solution selling
• Improve customer satisfaction
• Reduce field sales costs
Summary
We continue to be exceptionally well placed to 
meet the demands for information from the 
communities we serve, but the way we do this  
is changing and the growth of our mobile 
audiences continues to reflect this. Successful 
implementation of our transformation projects 
will ensure that we continue to be well placed to 
serve our communities in the years to come. 
Our financial performance, underpinned by 
our refinancing, is stabilising and provides 
us with the confidence and ability to invest 
in transforming our business into a modern 
multimedia organisation. 
Ashley Highfield
Chief Executive Officer 8 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Market Trends
Our strategy ensures that we can remain 
competitive and responsive to the needs of our 
market; we are well positioned to benefit from 
an improving economic environment and to 
launch new services to both existing and new 
customers. We have identified five key market 
trends that are changing our marketplace. 
• Mobile is continuing to grow and is 
becoming the first screen of use for most 
people. It is forecast to be 60% of our digital 
usage by the end of 2015. Mobile will cease 
to be the preserve of the young, as the older 
‘wealth generation’ catches up with the joy  
of the smart phone and tablet. As our 
highest potential growth audiences aren’t 
particularly young, this is good news for our 
core business. Monetising this growth is a 
key priority.
• Publishers are innovating through better 
contextual and native digital advertising ad 
formats, in order to offer an alternative  
(and charge a premium) to programmatic 
networks. We have invested in our capability 
in this area and are continuing to do so.
• As Google and Facebook ramp up their 
localisation capability this gives us an 
opportunity to sell these services into  
our SME (small and medium enterprise) 
customers. During 2014 we became 
Google’s fastest growing partner in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa (EMEA).
• Content marketing will continue to be a 
strong trend and we are well positioned 
to capitalise on this opportunity given our 
heritage of journalistic quality.
• Newsrooms are being transformed to better 
cater for audience groups by enabling 
real time digital journalism and quality 
‘User Generated Content’, which will grow 
substantially in the coming years.
Regulatory Overview
The Leveson inquiry brought press regulation  
to the forefront of public debate and it was 
generally agreed that the Press Complaints 
Commission (PCC) was not fit for purpose  
with even the PCC itself conceding that the 
“outcome of phone hacking should be a  
more independent PCC”.
Accordingly, the PCC was disbanded and the 
Independent Press Standards Organisation 
(IPSO) emerged as a new body for press 
regulation. IPSO was launched on 8 September 
2014 with Sir Alan Moses at its helm. 
Media consumption is changing. 
Life’s local focus isn’t.
Market Trends
Content creation is changing
2014
10% 
of content is  
user generated.
2020
50% 
of content is 
forecast to be 
user generated.
Marisa Cashill/Sheffield Star: Sheffield’s Somaliland community celebrates the vote  
for independence at the city’s Peace Gardens
The Recognition Panel established under The 
Royal Charter on Self-Regulation of the Press 
has been solely tasked with assessing whether 
self-regulators, such as IPSO, meet basic 
Leveson standards. Accordingly, self-regulating 
bodies, such as IPSO, are tasked with policing 
the Code of Practice itself, and the Leveson 
standards make clear that such bodies “should 
not have the power to prevent publication of 
any material, by anyone, at any time”. 
Membership of IPSO is voluntary; however most 
of the regional publishers, including the Group, 
have joined.
In preparation for the launch of IPSO, we 
formed an internal working group to consider 
and implement any actions required to 
comply with the new regulatory framework. 
More specifically, this group identified the 
need to prepare internal and external policies 
for dealing with future IPSO complaints 
and also undertook to devise an online 
training programme for editorial staff on the 
implications of the new regulator. A centralised 
record for any future complaints was also 
created in order to enable editorial staff 
across the Group to record complaints; this 
was in recognition of the new requirement for 
member companies to prepare and submit 
an annual statement of all complaints to the 
regulator. Early indications are that complaint 
volumes are similar to that under the PCC. 9 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
2013 2013 2013
2014 2014 2014 10.6m 16.7m 27.3m
12.2m 12.3m 24.5m
A new partnership with Sky 
that will see our sales teams  
selling local TV advertising 
as part of our portfolio.
DigitalKitbag
Helping small businesses market 
their companies online.
2014 digital 
revenue growth of 
20% year -on-year .
Year-on-year 
audience growth.
Print -13.1%
Digital +35.8%
Overall +11.4%
Average monthly  
audience decline – Print
Average monthly  
audience growth – Digital
Average total monthly  
audience growth
-13.1% +35.8% +1 1.4% 10 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Audience Strategy
Grow digital engagement and slow 
print decline through: 
• Insight: Audience-centric 
proposition for each priority brand.
• Content: Better multi-platform 
content strategy for each brand. 
Focus on local. Focus on quality. 
• Products: Simpler, flexible,  
device responsive, real-time  
web and mobile.
Commercial Strategy
To develop new products and services 
or leverage third party product and 
services that meet the needs of the 
markets we serve through:
• Insight: Develop even greater 
understanding of our 
markets, customer needs and 
opportunities, and align our sales 
force to customer needs.
• Management: Reduce customer 
churn through improved end to 
end customer service. 
• Scale: Grow national business 
through consolidation and by 
leveraging our mass localisation 
capability and design solutions 
for major brands.
• Digital: Offer digital and mobile 
solutions that will continue to 
work for our customers.
Our Customer 
Proposition
How We 
Achieve This
To be the best, most engaging platform for local 
news and information in our markets, to be the best 
advertising and marketing partner for SMEs, and to 
enable ‘Mass Localisation’ across all our communities 
for national brands.
T ransforming Local Media
External factors
Increased use of 
digital vs print
Economic 
environment
Audience
Advertisers
One-stop-shop
Multimedia 
platform
Local 
focus
National 
coverage
Our Aim
In this environment of rapid 
digital and societal change  
and the growing role of ‘local’  
in people’s lives, our purpose 
and mission remain constant: 
T o be the fabric that binds local 
people to local businesses.
Our strategy is focused on 
developing a sustainable 
business model.
Business Model & Strategy 11 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Circulation Revenues 
Our audiences continue to 
consume our content through 
either our daily or weekly printed 
products, for which, in the majority 
of cases, we charge a cover price. 
Advertising Revenues 
Local and national businesses  
who want to reach our local 
audiences buy advertising space  
in print and online. 
Small and Medium 
Enterprise (SME) 
Marketing Services 
Revenues 
We are leveraging our existing  
SME relationships to deliver new 
digital products and services to  
our customers. SME marketing 
services are a growing revenue 
stream for us. 
Audience
Revenue
Increasing 
materials cost
Life is local Societal change
Circulation revenue & ad revenue
Ad revenue & digital revenue
How We  
Generate Revenue
Our Strategic 
Priorities
01 
Building overall audiences
02  
Growing digital substantially
03  
Returning to top line growth
04  
Managing costs 
05 
Growing profitability
06 
Continuing to pay down our debt 12 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Our Strategy in Action
Continuing to serve our audiences in a trusted, quality and authentic way 
will remain the core focus for Johnston Press. Our year -on-year growth in 
aggregate audience provides confidence that we are achieving this.
01
Build Overall 
Audiences
Our overall audience growth was driven by our digital platforms, 
where we continue to deliver high quality online content that 
resonates with our audiences.
• Our total monthly audience grew to an average of 27.3 million 
in 2014, up from 24.5 million in 2013, representing a growth 
of 11.4% year-on-year.
• Our year-on-year December audience grew 25.9%, from  
21.2 million unique users to 26.7 million users.
• This was driven by our mobile audiences which grew by 
40.9% year-on-year to 7.1 million unique users. In December 
2014, this accounted for 43.9% of our total digital audience.
The ‘Newsroom of the Future’ is driving digital audiences through 
Facebook, Twitter and Instagram by creating links and referrals 
back to brand new websites, feeding traffic from social media  
to monetisable stories on our digital platforms.
Reporters are able to write directly onto websites, changing the 
headlines, pulling in pictures as they go. Running blogs capturing 
details of stories as they develop, pulling in social media material 
from trusted sources and curating those sent in by our followers.
Mobile phones are fast becoming the turn-to-first media 
platform to publish searchable content down to local 
neighbourhood level, with geo-tagging promoting offers  
from our advertising community.
Teams of journalists, equipped with the latest technology and 
tools, are able to have time to get out into their communities, 
sending back material to newly formed news and sports content 
hubs, who decide the best platform to publish their content to 
gain maximum audience reach.
26.7m
21.2m 2013
2014
Year-on-year audience  
(million unique users)* +25.9%
*  Total December audience. Source Webtrends (Digital) and Matrix (Print). 
Internal Johnston Press analytic tools. 13 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
The Scotsman and Edinburgh Evening News’ in-depth, up-to-the-
minute and multimedia coverage of the seminal Scottish 
independence referendum resulted in the Johnston Press titles 
reporting record-breaking traffic figures and a huge boost in 
circulation over the crucial stages of the decision. 
The papers’ coverage of the momentous campaign led to a 
notable leap in print circulation. As people voted, The Scotsman’s 
sales rose 13% and the Edinburgh Evening News’ increased 5% 
on the previous week. The Scotsman and the Edinburgh Evening 
News’ print circulation shot up as the results were announced by 
21%, week-on-week. The Scotsman’s post-result analysis on the 
Saturday culminated in a peak in print circulation, boosting sales 
by an impressive 25%. 
Meanwhile online, on the day of voting itself, The Scotsman 
achieved a staggering one million page views for the first time  
ever; 50% higher than the previous record. Additionally, in total, 
unique browsers for both it and the Edinburgh Evening News had 
already topped three million for the first half of September. 
Other hikes in traffic include The Scotsman’s referendum 
microsite, which aggregated the best content on the 
independence debate from around the web, drawing nearly 
60,000 unique browsers on the day of voting, four times higher 
than any other day since it went live. Similarly, the paper’s live blog 
on the referendum, which ran from the start of the day the polls 
opened and was continually updated with the latest results and 
developments, reached 85,000 people. 
The digital platforms were 
supported with social media 
activity, notably, The Scotsman’s 
weekly Google Hangout 
discussions, the most popular  
of which received 10,000 views, 
as well as the Edinburgh Evening 
News’ digital front page that was 
shared over its social channels 
and reached over 381,000 
people on Facebook alone.
Case Study
Scottish Independence  
Referendum – Digital First 14 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Our Strategy in Action (continued)
A headline-grabbing collaboration between Johnston Press, 
Local World, Newsquest and the majority of the UK’s 
independent local media businesses led to the launch of  
1XL in November – an innovative digital advertising platform 
designed to harness the aggregated strength and scale of  
local media to give advertisers unprecedented UK-wide  
digital reach.
1XL is designed to revolutionise local media buying, with a 
reach of more than 17.5 million monthly unique users and  
a combined portfolio of more than 800 sites showing more 
than 50,000 articles every week. 
By bringing together more than 800 sites, it allows brands –  
for the first time – to access a broad portfolio of local media 
advertising opportunities via a single sales point. 
The 1XL platform is run through a dedicated media sales  
team at national sales house Mediaforce Group. Developed  
to meet growing market demand, and allowing advertisers  
to benefit from the relevance and trust placed in local media 
by their respective communities, 1XL gives media buyers 
access to a highly engaged audience, this is larger than  
any single commercial UK national news media website  
and similar in scale to Mail online. 
Case Study
1XL – 800 websites, c. 18 million  
unique users ––
>
 1 salespoint 15 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
2013
2014 28.8m
24.0m 2013
2012
2014 265.9m  
278.2m   
293.4m   
-7.4%
-5.2%
-4.4%
Total underlying digital revenue  
+20.0%
As digital audiences have grown, so have our 
digital revenues. In 201 4 we grew our total 
underlying digital revenues by 20.0%, with 
digital display advertising growing 1 8.8% 
year-on-year. Our major digital categories 
continued to show encouraging growth.  
We continue to work towards growing these 
categories to the scale that will offset any 
future print declines, thus helping us to reach 
our ‘digital tipping point’. We are working hard 
to deliver a return to revenue growth and 
have reached the digital tipping point on  
290 occasions in 201 4¹. 
To support this growth we have launched improved platforms 
for our Jobstoday.co.uk business and launched the new 
Smartlist specialised recruitment service. Our WOW247.co.uk 
entertainment platform continued to grow and development 
and expansion of this business will continue in 2015.
Digital display advertising revenues were £10.0 million, growing 
by 19% year-on-year. This has been driven by more visitors to 
our news sites. 
Underlying digital Employment revenues in 2014 were 
£8.5 million, up 12.3% year-on-year. Combined print and  
digital Employment revenues were up 3.4% year-on-year, thus 
reaching the ‘tipping point’ in this category. 41% of revenues in 
this category are now from digital.
Digital Motors underlying revenues in 2014 were £1.7 million, 
up from £0.9 million in 2014, a year-on-year growth of 88.2%. 
Digital Property revenues in 2014 were £1.3 million, up from 
£0.9 million in 2014, a year-on-year growth of 52.0%.
Improving end-to-end service quality is  
at the heart of our commercial strategy. 
During 2014 we have continued to better focus our 
advertising sales force to meet customer needs and increase 
our share of advertising spend as we seek to return to 
overall revenue growth. 
We have put in place the processes and tools to better 
manage sales activity and focus on growing active accounts.
Total statutory advertising revenue was down 4.2% 
year-on-year. Whilst revenue decline is slowing, as a result  
of the hard work and measures taking place across the 
business, we still face the challenge of offsetting print 
revenue decline through digital and mobile growth and, 
while we are beginning to make great inroads here, the 
challenge remains. We are not yet at the overall advertising 
revenue tipping point.
Our Media Sales Centre continues to grow strongly, with the 
combined classified categories of Employment, Public 
Notices, Other Classifieds and Birth, Marriages and Deaths 
(BMDs) all growing year-on-year in print and 20% year-on-
year in digital.
02
Growing Digital 
Substantially
03
Returning to  
T op Line Growth
¹  Digital tipping point is defined where 2014 revenue exceeds 2013 revenue within a category, within a Publishing Unit, within a given month. 
Total revenue decline rate  
is narrowing  
Total underlying revenue (£m)  16 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2013
2012
2014 265.9m    
278.2m
293.4m   
-7.4%
-5.2%
-4.4%
2013
2014 210.4m
224.2m 2013
2014 184.6m
302.0m 2013
2014 55.5m
54.0m
2013
2014 28.8m
24.0m
Strategy in Action (continued)
04
Managing  
Costs
05
Growing 
Profitability
06
Continuing  
to Pay Down  
our Debt
2014 was another year  
where we managed our cost 
base efficiently, reducing it  
by a further £1 3.8 million  
(a reduction of 6.2%) on the 
back of significant costs  
savings in 201 3, and following 
further investment in the  
digital business. 
Operating profit margins have improved  
by 1.5 percentage points in the year,  
growing operating profits margins from  
19.4% to 20.9%, on an underlying basis.  
We will continue with our cost saving 
initiatives in 2015; however, we are aware  
of the substantial rate of change that has 
taken place across the Group in the last few 
years, and will ensure we manage further 
change carefully whilst executing on our 
planned initiatives.
In 201 4 we recorded an 
underlying operating profit  
of £55.5 million, up 2.8% on  
the previous year . 
Our continuing focus on securing top line 
revenue growth whilst maintaining a strong 
cost discipline has allowed us to grow 
underlying operating profits for the second 
consecutive year; this is a great achievement 
given that last year’s operating profit growth 
was the first such growth in seven year.
In 2015, top line growth will continue to be  
a top priority and we will continue to seek 
further efficiency opportunities in line with 
‘best practice’ in our editorial, sales and 
back-office functions.
Reducing debt as quickly  
as possible remains a key 
management priority. 
The successful refinancing allowed us to 
accelerate our strategy to pay down debt.  
Our net debt has come down from over 
£476.8 million in 2008 to £184.6 million  
at the end of 2014.
Our new debt structure has allowed us to 
significantly reduce the interest we pay on  
our debt allowing us to invest in medium  
to long term cash generative projects which 
we can use to further reduce our debt.
Underlying operating costs (£m)  
(see page 29 in Financial Review) -6.2% 
Underlying operating  
profit (£m)  +2.8% Net debt (£m)  -38.9%
Total underlying digital  
revenue (£m) +20.0%
Total underlying revenue (£m)  17 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Case Study
Newsroom of the Future
The ‘Newsroom of the Future’ pilot launched in Chesterfield, 
Mansfield and mid-Derbyshire with the aim of changing the way 
we create, collate and share news and information using two 
teams to deliver content. 
Our aim is to ensure our newsrooms in the future become 
vibrant places to work: immediately responsive, publishing our 
own generated content – and that sent in by our readers – on 
many different platforms.
By the end of 2014 the ‘Newsroom of the Future’ pilot was 
providing a tangible example of the benefits of changing our 
approach. This new way was achieved by creating two teams –  
a news team, tasked with seeking out and developing stories and 
a communities content team, in the newsroom to drive content. 
Local editors closely monitored the outcomes and initial findings 
showed that this approach enabled team members to really focus 
on what is important to them. This included providing the news 
team with the space to concentrate on seeking out stories and 
front line journalism and ensuring the communities content team 
can dedicate its focus on the vital role of community curation and 
local engagement. 
As the new structures continue to roll out throughout 2015 these 
teams will have the technology to enable them to deliver quality 
content in these different, but equally important roles.  18 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
T o measure performance against our 
strategic objectives, we monitor key 
performance indicators (KPIs). Our 
performance in 201 4 measured against 
201 3 is shown below:
Key Performance Indicators
A reconciliation of the statutory to underlying figures is provided in the Financial 
Review section on pages 26 to 32. Prior year comparatives have been restated to 
exclude discontinued operations, following the sale of our Republic of Ireland 
business during 2014, and adoption of IAS 19R.
£265.9 million -4.4% £136.9 million -8.7%
Total underlying revenue (£m) Underlying print advertising revenue (£m)
Reason for choice:
This metric is an output measure of our three key revenues lines namely 
print advertising, digital and newspaper sales revenues. 
Strategic objective: 
Returning to Top Line Growth
Performance:
There was a 4.4% year-on-year decline in total underlying revenues 
reflecting the tough advertising market that continued throughout 2014. 
• Total underlying print advertising revenues declined by 8.7% in 2014. 
• Underlying digital revenues grew by 20.0%, driven by strong growth in 
the key advertising categories of properties, motors and local display.
• Underlying newspaper circulation revenue declined by 4.8%  
year-on-year.
• In our employment category the ‘revenue tipping point’ was reached, 
as growth in digital revenues outweighed the print advertising revenue 
decline to achieve overall growth of 3.4% in this sector.
Strategic Objective  3
Reason for choice:
Stemming the decline in print advertising remains a focus for the business.
Strategic objective: 
Returning to Top Line Growth
Performance:
Total underlying print advertising revenues declined by 8.7% in 2014.
• The print advertising decline rate has remained stable throughout  
the year, with the underlying decline rate reported in the first half  
and second half of the year remaining constant at 8.7%. 
• 2014 remained a difficult economic environment. However, we 
continue to believe that the fundamental structural changes in 
classified advertising has now occurred and we may now be entering  
a more stable environment, evidenced by our reducing year-on-year 
decline from 9.2% in 2013 to 8.7% in 2014. We continue to invest in 
our media sales centre which handles classified advertising centrally 
for the Group.
Strategic Objective  3
Financial KPIs
2013 2013
2014 2014 265.9m 136.9m
278.2m 149.9m 19 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
224.2m
£210.4 million -6.2%
Reason for choice:
This measure brings together the combined effects of cost saving 
initiatives and identification and implementation of best practice across 
the Group.
Strategic objective: 
Managing costs
Performance:
Underlying operating costs (including depreciation and amortisation and 
excluding exceptional and other adjustments) were reduced by £13.8 
million in 2014, a 6.2% year-on-year reduction. The cost reduction was 
achieved after a net investment in the digital business.
• Underlying operating profit margins have improved from 19.4% in 
2013 to 20.9% in 2014.
• We will continue to seek efficiency opportunities. The significant 
voluntary redundancy programme implemented in late 2013 
contributed to the improvement in the adjusted operating costs  
year-on-year.
• A number of new cost-saving workstreams were executed in late 2014 
and this work will continue throughout 2015 to identify and implement 
best practice across the Group.
Strategic Objective  4
Underlying operating costs (£m)
2013 2013
2014 2014 28.8m 77.9m
24.0m 81.8m
£28.8 million + 20.0% £77 .9 million -4.8%
Underlying digital revenue (£m) Underlying circulation revenue (£m)
Reason for choice:
Growing the digital revenues streams is a key focus for the business, as 
it invests in new digital products and moves towards reaching our ‘digital 
tipping point’ and creating growth in revenue and equity value.
Strategic objective: 
Growing Digital Substantially
Performance:
• 2014 was another important year for digital revenues in Johnston 
Press, with underlying Digital revenues growing by 20.0% year-on-year 
to £28.8 million.
• The key digital categories showed significant underlying growth with 
online property growing by 52.0% year-on-year, online motors growing 
by 88.2%, online employment growing by 12.3%, total display grew by 
18.8% year-on-year.
Strategic Objective  2 
Reason for choice:
This measure brings together the combined effects of our pricing, 
volumes and customer offer for our printed newspapers. 
Strategic objective: 
Returning to Top Line Growth
Performance:
• Underlying print circulation declines were down 4.8% for the  
full year; this was in line with plan. 
Strategic Objective  3
2013
2014
£55.5 million +2.8%
Reason for choice:
Measuring operating profit growth ensures our continuing focus on  
top line growth and ensuring strong cost disciplines as the business  
is managed to the right size during our transformation from a print  
to digital business. 
Strategic objective: 
Growing Profitability
Performance: 
• In 2014 the Group grew underlying operating profit by 2.8%.
• The continued tight management of costs has delivered an 
improvement in the Group’s underlying operating profit margin  
to 20.9% from 19.4% reported in 2013. 
Strategic Objective  5
Underlying operating profit (£m)
55.5m
54.0m 2013
2014 210.4m 20 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2013 2013
2014 2014 1.5% 26.7m
1.9% 21.2m
1.5 per cent +0.4pp 26.7 million + 25.9%
Reason for choice:
This KPI measures the number of employees involved in accidents 
within our printing and publishing operation. This statistic measures the 
effectiveness of our health and safety procedure and is a key part of our 
control environment.
Strategic objective: 
N/A
Performance:
• For the fourth year in succession, we have reduced the number of 
total accidents.
• After achieving 33 months without any ‘lost time’ accidents, at our 
print sites, we experienced a lost time accident in October 2014. At 
our publishing sites, we experienced a lost time accident in February 
2014 after 18 months without any ‘lost time’ accidents.
• The number of employees involved in accidents in the Group’s 
printing and publishing operations in 2014 was 1.5%, compared to 
1.9% in 2013.
Strategic Objective: N/A
Reason for choice: 
Monitoring our audience volumes ensures we continue to deliver  
high quality content that resonates with our audiences. 
Strategic objective: 
Building Overall Audiences
Performance:
• Our overall audience growth was driven by our digital platforms, 
where we have continued the relaunch of our news websites  
and delivering high quality content online that resonates with  
our audiences.
• Our monthly digital audience growth in 2014 more than offset the 
print audience decline giving us an overall net audience growth  
of 25.9% year-on-year from December 2013 to December 2014.
• Digital audiences reached 16.1 million unique users in December 
2014, up 21.9% year-on-year.
Strategic Objective 
 1
 
*   Total December audience. Source Webtrends (Digital) and Matrix (Print).  
Internal Johnston Press analytic tools.
Year-on-year December audience  
(million unique users)*
2013
2014
302.0m
£184.6 million -38.9%
Reason for choice:
Reducing debt remains a management priority and focus. Over time 
lower levels of debt should allow the Group to return to paying dividends 
to ordinary shareholders, subject to the restrictions applying to our bond.
Strategic objective: 
Continuing to Pay Down our Debt
Performance:
• The Company announced on 23 June 2014 that it had successfully 
completed its Capital Refinancing Plan (announced on 9 May 2014). 
Refer further discussion in the Financial Review section, and Note 22 
to the accounts.
• We remain on track with our strategy of using cash generated and sale 
of non-core assets to reduce debt further.
Strategic Objective  6
Net debt (£m)
Employee health and safety – accidents 
Non-financial KPIs
Key Performance Indicators (continued)
 
Financial KPIs continued
184.6m 21 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
There are a number of potential  
risks and uncertainties which have 
been identified by the Company that 
could have a material impact on the 
Group’s long-term performance.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
Further Reductions in Print Advertising
Print advertising revenues could decline at a faster 
rate due to further migration of customer spending 
to online media and weak consumer confidence in 
some of the markets in which we operate.
Online migration of classified advertising means  
that even with the economic recovery in the UK, it is 
unlikely that these revenues will be fully recovered. 
Consumer confidence remains low in some of the 
markets in which we operate, and both national  
and local businesses spend on advertising may 
remain constrained.
The Group continues to develop its online 
advertising offering through partnerships, mobile 
apps and new verticals such as Digital Kitbag, The 
Smartlist and WOW247. It also continues to invest in 
its sales expertise to ensure both a more proactive 
and effective approach and that the sales offering is 
fully understood by sales staff and appropriate for 
customers’ needs. 
Newsprint Price and Supply Risk
Although paper prices have fallen over the course  
of the past 12 months future price rises represent a 
risk to the Group in terms of both supply and pricing 
of newsprint which, after staff costs, is the largest 
single expense incurred by the business.
In 2014 newsprint represented approximately 10% 
of the Group’s cost base. A significant increase in 
price would impact the Group’s profitability and a 
reduction in supply could impact the quantity of 
newspapers we distribute in the market, which could 
in turn have an impact on advertising revenues.
The Group carefully manages its consumption of 
newsprint through waste management, recycling, 
pagination and distribution of free titles. The Group 
also has some of the most efficient printing presses 
in the industry. Contracts are put in place with key 
suppliers to ensure security of supply and  
optimum pricing.
Failure to Monetise Increased Readership of our News Websites
This is an industry issue. Online and mobile 
advertising rates are lower than print and it is 
difficult to charge for accessing news online because 
free alternatives exist.
Readership continues to migrate to a digital 
environment where the advertising rates per reader 
are significantly lower. This is in part driven by 
demographic and societal change.
Our digital strategy focuses on building digital 
audiences and revenues through new platforms and 
enhancing the content available to readers and 
advertisers. There is considerable effort to maximise 
the advertising rates attained for digital inventory, 
and to sell more inventory at premium rates eg 
through the launch of 1XL. 
The principal risks and uncertainties described 
are not a complete list of all those risks 
identified but those that the Directors feel 
could have a significant impact on the Group 
and the general economic conditions in the 
markets in which we operate. By including 
risks within this section, the Directors make 
no prediction as to the particular likelihood 
of any event or set of events occurring. The 
business could also be affected by other risks 
not currently identified or considered to be 
significant. Other risks that remain the most 
important in terms of the overall performance 
of the Group, but also relate to issues over 
which the Group has no control, namely:
• Change in Gross Domestic Product;
• Change in the unemployment rate;
• Levels of property transactions;
• Levels of new car sales;
• Levels of consumer confidence; and
• Public sector spending.
In 2013, covenant compliance and interest  
rate risks were included as principal risks 
and uncertainties. Following the successful 
refinancing of the Group in 2014, these risks  
are no longer principal risks and uncertainties. 22 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Description of risk Impact Mitigation
Pension Deficit Funding
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is 
currently in deficit leaving the Group responsible for 
potential shortfalls, in particular driven by sustained 
low interest rates.
While working to reduce the pension deficit, the 
Group must balance this with the need to invest  
in the business and reduce the level of debt and 
resulting interest charges. See Financial Review  
for further information.
The Group entered into a revised arrangement with 
the scheme trustees during 2014 with increased 
contribution levels which are designed to address 
the deficit over time. These were agreed with the 
trustees concurrently with the refinancing and take 
account of Group cashflow forecasts. The scheme is 
closed to future accrual and pension exchange 
exercises have taken place to limit the level of 
pension increases, reducing the liability further. The 
Group is also working with the trustees and actual 
advisors to manage all controllable items.
Business Opportunities Constrained by Debt
The Group continues to operate with greater than 
optimal levels of gearing, hence reduction of debt 
over time remains a priority. However, this focus 
could lead to missed revenue opportunities if 
insufficient funds are left available for investment.
The Group may be unable to take advantage of 
opportunities to invest in its core business or 
complementary revenue streams thus impacting its 
long-term growth prospects.
The refinancing completed in 2014 provided greater 
financial stability for the Group together with access 
to funding to permit a degree of investment in its 
core business or complementary revenue streams.
Business Change
The Group is implementing two major projects to 
revise the organisation of its news rooms and its 
sales model which may cause disruption during  
the transition.
The implementation of key change initiatives could lead 
to disruption in our business which could affect quality 
of output and staff morale and industrial relations and 
impact advertising and circulation revenue.
The Group has developed a planned phased 
approach to implementing the changes including full 
communications with staff and Unions. The business 
has also updated its business continuity plan to 
cater for the changes.
Adequacy of Human Resources
Like most organisations there is an element of 
dependency on certain key individuals in the Group.
Should some of these key people leave the 
organisation there could be the loss of industry 
knowledge, supplier relationships, technical 
expertise and leadership.
The Group has put in place succession planning 
across the organisation and this is reviewed at least 
annually by the Executive Directors and by the 
Board. During 2014 continued effort was put into 
staff engagement, including staff surveys, improved 
staff communication and the on-going awards 
scheme. These initiatives will continue in 2014.
Lifestyle and Technology Changes Affect Newspaper Circulations
Newspaper circulations continue to decline due  
to increased availability of news through alternative 
media channels and reductions in the regularity  
of purchase. This change is in part driven by 
demographic and societal change.
The reduction in circulations can lead to reduced 
newspaper sales revenues as well as reduced 
audience for our advertisers.
The Group continues to promote loyalty schemes  
to encourage increased frequency of newspaper 
purchase and is seeking to increase subscription 
rates. In response to changing reader habits we are 
in the process of redesigning and relaunching our 
news websites tailored to mobile devices, increasing 
the frequency of updates and promoted news and 
mobile services. 
Slowdown in Rate of Digital Growth and Reduction in Advertising Rates for Mobile
The Group has experienced strong growth in its 
digital income streams in recent years. The rate  
of growth could slow if customers seek alternative 
routes to audiences served. The industry as a whole 
has seen a shift towards accessing digital content 
through mobile devices which generally attract  
lower advertising rates than the rates achieved  
for desktop devices.
A slowdown in digital revenue growth and/or 
reduction in advertising rates achieved could  
impact profitability and the carry value of assets.  
In addition, the Group adopts a long-term growth 
rate of 1% in assessing the valuation of publishing 
titles. In order to achieve this growth rate continued 
levels of growth in digital is required for the 
foreseeable future.
The Group continues to invest in improving its 
understanding of its audience and in growing its 
overall audience, as well as developing new products 
(e.g. Digital Kitbag) to enable customers to reach 
their targeted audience and enable the Group to 
continue to participate in growth in digital 
advertising spend. 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued) 23 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Delivering our Strategy
Throughout 2014 we focused on delivering  
our key audience and commercial development 
strategies, supported by digital product and 
market innovation. Our audience strategies 
concentrated on content improvement in 
print and improved digital engagement and 
differentiation, has led to overall average 
monthly audience growth of 11.4% from  
24.5 million to 27.3 million. 
The commercial strategy has focused on 
improving end-to-end service quality and  
design led advertising initiatives to improve the 
relevance of our service offerings and advertiser 
customer experience. On-going development 
of our Media Sales Centre has focused on 
improving service quality and efficiency.
Audience Development
Print quality improvement has been driven 
through our content improvement plan and 
enabled through increased sharing of high 
quality content. This has been facilitated by  
the ‘Great Sharing Hub’ and our three 
centralised design hubs, providing smarter  
and faster newspaper design.
During the year, our design hubs have 
broadened their remit considerably to become 
important providers of editorial content to  
the business. 
As well as frequent Group supplements, the 
hubs now produce many pages of new, feature 
and lifestyle material which can be used in titles 
across the Group. These pages are accessed 
through a central website portal – called Great 
Content – and placed on the page without the 
need for editing (made possible through the 
use of common page designs). A new single 
Weekend section has been developed to 
replace the multitude of approaches in our daily 
titles’ Saturday editions, featuring better content 
and clearer design, curated entirely by the hubs.
Great Content is also home to the work of many 
of our columnists whose work can appear in 
multiple titles, as well as a live feed of shareable 
content written by reporters and feature writers 
in the Group. This emphasis on ‘create once 
– use many times’ is a key part of the Group’s 
Print Content Improvement Project and 
‘Newsroom of the Future’ strategy.
The design hubs are now leading the 
development of visual storytelling in editorial, 
both online and in print. Designers are creating 
central repositories of infographic resources 
and working with editors to produce new  
ways of explaining content to readers with 
evolving demands.
Their design skills, honed for print, are  
also being adapted for digital long-form-
storytelling platforms – a great example  
being the Scottish Independence Referendum 
which repurposed Scotsman content into a 
dynamic online package featuring a variety  
 of multimedia elements.
Photographic services were outsourced in 
2014, providing an enhanced service while 
reducing costs.
Digital Product and  
Market Development
In 2014 we launched improved platforms for 
our Jobstoday.co.uk business, which continued 
to strengthen its digital performance, including 
the launch of the new Smartlist specialised 
recruitment service. 
Our WOW247.co.uk entertainment platform 
continued to grow, nearing 500,000 unique 
users per month during peak months of 
festivals in the UK. Development and expansion 
of this business will continue in 2015. 
Our newsrooms now have real-time data on 
web site usage that is helping them create the 
right content for digital platforms based on the 
interests of the audience. 
We also launched redesigned web sites for  
2015 which will position our business for the 
significant anticipated growth in mobile usage  
in 2015. We experienced accelerating mobile 
traffic throughout 2014 and are now in a strong 
position to exploit this trend. 
This emphasis  
on ‘create once – 
use many times’  
is a key part  
of the Group’s 
Print Content 
Improvement 
Project and 
Newsroom of the 
Future strategy. 
Operational Review
Jane Barlow/The Scotsman: Commonwealth Games opening ceremony in Glasgow 24 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In 2014 we signed an agreement with Sky  
to sell their Sky AdSmart solution, which  
is a unique proposition to deliver targeted 
television advertising. This initiative supports 
our advertisers to target the customers more 
precisely, combining Sky household data and the 
power of television with JP advertiser relationships.
Commercial Development
Design-led advertising was initiated to provide 
customers with improved advertising services 
and the ability to commission a coherent, 
professionally designed, multi-channel 
campaign. For smaller, less frequent  
advertisers, template designs have been 
developed to provide customers with a range  
of standard creative solutions together with  
a simplified booking process and focus on 
reducing advertising errors. In addition, these 
template advertisements provide benefits in the 
newsrooms as advertising is more predictable 
and to standards formats, sizes and shapes. 
Both initiatives lead to an enhanced final 
product in print or online with modern, 
professional adverts improving the look  
and feel of the final product.
The Media Sales Centre continues to 
deliver significant growth and had revenue 
improvements throughout 2014.
All four combined classified categories 
(Employment, Public Notices, BMDs, Other 
Classified) saw year-on-year growth of 7%  
with a 20% year-on-year improvement in  
digital revenues, on an underlying basis.
Group investment in the new digitally led 
outbound recruitment team saw a significant 
return in 2014 with the Employment category 
performing +3.4% year-on-year, on an 
underlying basis. This team will be well 
positioned to take full advantage of the strong 
recruitment market going into 2015. In Other 
Classified, several new product launches in the 
A5 magazine market and a focus on our digital 
products saw this category grow year-on-year 
for the first time in over five years. The new 
digital recruitment platform, the sales of mobile 
display inventory and the consolidation of digital 
birth, marriage and death announcements  
and Public Notices all contributed to the 29% 
year-on-year improvement in digital revenues 
across the media sales centre.
We monitor very closely to how we are rated by 
two of our key stakeholders: our customers and 
our staff. We are rated by our customers using 
the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and have just 
completed our fourth staff satisfaction survey. 
We have been encouraged by improvement in 
some of our NPS scores. 
Staff engagement through 2013/2014 had a 
positive impact on the overall performance of 
the Media Sales Centre in particular. In 2014 the 
mean average score for engagement improved 
markedly on the previous year. Four of the key 
indicators were staff recognition, job satisfaction, 
line management support and living the values, 
all of which contributed to the result. 
Operations and Production
The Group’s printing business operates out of 
three sites in Portsmouth, Dinnington and Carn. 
With the continuing reduction of press availability 
in the industry the Group has strengthened 
its position in the contract print market. The 
Group’s state of the art presses continue to 
perform at optimum quality and produce print 
products with increasing efficiency. 
Operational Review (continued)
Sarah Washbourn/Sheffield Star: Runners 
complete The 5k Fun Foam Run at Weston 
Park, Sheffield Steve Riding/Yorkshire Evening Post: Kallum Watkins scores a try for Leeds Rhinos 25 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Major customers include Local World, Tindle 
Newspapers, Times Educational, Guardian 
Media Group, Trinity Mirror, as well as many 
niche publications. The print sites are well 
placed geographically to meet publisher’s 
distribution requirements with integrated 
logistics services. 
 
A full review of the Group’s logistics operations 
was undertaken in 2014 with the majority of  
the delivery routes now being outsourced to  
a single supplier specialising in the distribution 
of time sensitive products. This initiative has 
significantly improved the efficiency and 
timeliness of product delivery to market and 
substantially reduced costs.
In 2014, the Group appointed a Chief Creative 
Officer with a brief to greatly improve the 
Company’s creative capability and digital 
advertisement product innovation. Our 
Customer Service Department has also been 
consolidated so that all customer interactions 
for any digital or print product can be handled 
by a single point of contact, improving the 
customer experience.
With the continued strong growth in our  
digital audience it has been vital to continue 
to improve the infrastructure on which the 
Group’s websites rely. In 2014, a number of 
substantial upgrade programmes have been 
completed including the roll-out of a ‘Content 
Delivery Network’ to all websites and the 
introduction of a new storage platform.
Following the completion of the Mobile 
Journalist project in 2013, a number of 
enhancements to the Group’s remote  
working systems were made during 2014  
with the aim of further improving the ability  
of Editorial staff to work from the heart of  
their local communities.
Work to further improve the quality and delivery 
speed of reporting and analytics data continued 
throughout 2014. A new system for analysing 
the behaviour of website visitors has been 
implemented across all of the Group’s websites. 
This system allows journalists to see the 
audience engagement level of each and every 
article that is published throughout that article’s 
entire life-cycle. These metrics can then be used 
to make real-time decisions on how to improve 
engagement and increase traffic volumes.
Property and Estate
We have continued to review our property 
portfolio to identify markets and centres that 
have accommodation which no longer meets 
the requirements of the business. During 
2014 we disposed of 23 freehold properties 
and removed ourselves from 15 leases (net 
of relocations). These include significant 
relocations including The Scotsman, to new 
offices in Edinburgh, and the remaining digital 
and accounts teams to new fit-for-purpose 
offices in central Peterborough. Overall we have 
reduced the total number of properties within 
the portfolio from 188 at the start of the review 
in 2012 to 150 at the end of 2014, with nearly 
half of all staff either having relocated or having 
seen investment in their environment.
Although a great deal of progress has been 
made during 2014, the projects will continue  
as the portfolio is rationalised further with an 
expectation of the overall number of properties 
eventually falling below 100.
Scott Merrylees/The Yorkshire Post: The Queen is greeted by crowds 
of well-wishers at Chatsworth House  26 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In 201 4 we achieved a statutory operating 
profit of £ 1 0.7 million; underlying operating 
profit grew by 2.8% year -on-year to £55.5 
million, and underlying profit before tax 
increased from £8.9 million to £29.9 million. 
Financial Review
The Group also completed its refinancing, raising £360.5 million from a placing  
and rights issue and bond offer . 
Introduction
This Financial Review, based on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, provides commentary on the Group’s performance during  
the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (2013: 52 weeks).
Comparison of Statutory to Underlying Performance
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015
Statutory  
£m
Exceptionals
1
 
£m
53 week effect 
£m
Other
2
 
£m
Underlying
5
 
£m
Total continuing revenues 268.8 – (2.9) – 265.9
Operating costs
3
(252.6) 44.7 1.5 1.5 (204.9)
EBITDA
4
16.2 44.7 (1.4) 1.5 61.0 
Depreciation and amortisation (5.5) – – – (5.5)
Operating profit 10.7 44.7 (1.4) 1.5 55.5 
Net finance costs
6
(34.6) 9.1 – – (25.6)
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations
6
(23.9) 53.8 (1.4) 1.5 29.9 
Tax 8.6 (11.4) – – (2.8)
(Loss)/profit for the period from continuing operations (15.3) 42.4 (1.4) 1.5 27.1
Operating profit margin from continuing operations 20.9%
52 weeks ended 29 December 2013
Statutory 
£m 
Exceptionals
1
 
£m
53 week effect 
£m
Other
2 
£m
Underlying 
£m
Total continuing revenues 290.0 (10.0) – (1.8) 278.2
Operating costs
3
(527.9) 309.5 – 1.9 (216.5)
EBITDA
4
(237.9) 299.5 – 0.1 61.7 
Depreciation and amortisation (7.7) – – – (7.7)
Operating (loss)/profit
6
(245.7) 299.5 – 0.1 54.0 
Net finance costs (45.8) 0.7 – – (45.1)
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (291.4) 300.2 – 0.1 8.9 
Tax 75.7 (71.4) – – 4.3 
(Loss)/profit for the period from continuing operations (215.7) 228.8 – 0.1 13.2
Operating profit margin from continuing operations 19.4%
¹ Exceptional items are set out in Note 6 to the financial statements. 
²  Other adjustments reflect the impact of pension plan admin expenses recognised due to the adoption of IAS19R (Note 24), share based payments (Note 31) and disposed titles  
as well as the impact of the termination of the News International (NI) printing contracts in 2013.
³  Operating costs include cost of sales and are stated before depreciation and amortisation.
⁴  EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
⁵  In October 2014, the Letterbox Direct business was outsourced. There has been no adjustment made to the Underlying results in 2014, but an adjustment will be reflected in 
2015 comparators for underlying purposes.
⁶  Calculated on unrounded numbers. 27 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Basis of Presentation
In preparing commentary on performance,  
the financial impact of a number of significant 
accounting and operational items affecting the 
results have been adjusted for in arriving at the 
underlying results discussed in this Financial 
Review. A reconciliation from the statutory to 
underlying results is provided below along  
with a description of the nature of the 
adjustments made.
In the first half of 2014 the Group disposed 
of its Republic of Ireland business, which 
comprised 12 titles and revenues of £2.8 million 
in the 3 months until disposal. As this business 
has been reported as discontinued, the results 
are not included in the comparison of statutory 
to underlying performance table. Comparatives 
have been restated accordingly.
2014 was a 53 week trading period, and the 
underlying results have been adjusted to exclude 
the impact of the extra week and the narrative 
has been focused on underlying performance. 
Exceptional Items
Exceptional items, totalling £53.8 million 
(2013: £300.2 million), include £24.5 million of 
publishing title impairment, and property and 
asset held for sale write-downs, £21.1 million 
on restructuring and other costs, £9.1 million  
of financing costs resulting from the refinancing 
and a £0.9 million gain on sale of property. 
For additional discussion refer to Note 6 to 
the financial statements and further detailed 
explanation of Exceptional items provided 
within the Financial Review section. 
53 Week Adjustments to 
Reflect ‘Underlying’ Business
The effect of the 53rd week of trading in 2014 
has been included as an adjustment to  
the underlying results with the revenue 
adjustments equating to the final week of 
revenue of £2.9 million, and an estimate  
made for the final week of production and 
other operating costs of £1.5 million.
Other Adjustments to Reflect 
‘Underlying’ Business 
The detail of the Other adjustments made are 
as follows:
• In 2014, £1.5 million of other adjustments 
were made to reflect the underlying 
business, including £0.8 million of pension 
plan admin expenses recognised due to  
the adoption of IAS19R (Note 24); and  
£0.7 million of share based payments 
charges (Note 31).
• In 2013, £1.8 million is included as an 
adjustment to underlying revenues, and 
£1.9 million to underlying operating costs. 
– Three titles disposed of during 2013, an 
adjustment for revenues of £0.9 million 
and associated production costs of £0.3 
million have been removed from the 
underlying results.
David King
Chief Financial Officer
Performance Review of Continuing Operations
Statutory Underlying¹
53 weeks ended 3 January 2015
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
change 
£m
change⁴ 
%
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
change 
£m
change⁴ 
%
Advertising revenue
Print advertising 138.1  150.4  (12.3) (8.2%) 136.9  149.9 (13.0) (8.7%)
Digital advertising 29.1  24.1  5.0 20.7% 28.8  24.0 4.8 20.0%
Total advertising revenue 167.2  174.5 (7.3) (4.2%) 165.7  173.9 (8.2) (4.7%)
Non-advertising revenue
Newspaper sales 79.1  82.1 (3.0) (3.7%) 77.9  81.8 (3.9) (4.8%)
Contract printing
3
 12.8  21.2 (8.4) (39.6%) 12.6  10.3 2.3 22.3%
Other 9.7  12.2 (2.5) (20.5%) 9.7  12.2 (2.5) (20.5%)
Total other revenues 101.6  115.5 (13.9) (12.0%) 100.2  104.3 (4.1) (3.9%)
Total continuing revenues 268.8 290.0 (21.2) (7.3%) 265.9  278.2 (12.3) (4.4%)
Operating costs
2
(258.1) (535.6) (277.5) 51.8% (210.4) (224.2) (13.8) (6.2%)
Operating profit/(loss) 10.7 (245.7) 256.4 (104.4%) 55.5  54.0 1.5 2.8%
Operating profit/(loss) margin 20.9% 19.4%
¹  Underlying results excludes Exceptional items (Note 6) and includes adjustments made to remove the 53 week effect, reflect the impact of pension plan admin expenses 
recognised due to the adoption of IAS19R (Note 24), share-based payments (Note 31) and disposed titles as well as the impact of the termination of the News International printing 
contracts in 2013. 
²  Operating costs include depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
³  Contract print revenues earned in the nine months since disposal of the Irish business to Iconic Newspapers on 1 April 2014 were £0.8 million.
⁴  The % change variance has been calculated based on unrounded numbers. 28 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Underlying Print and Digital Advertising Revenue Analysis
Full year underlying Print Digital
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
%  
change
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
%  
change¹
2014  
£m
2013 
£m
%  
change¹
Property 22.5 24.4 (7.8%) 21.2  23.5 (10.0%) 1.3  0.9 52.0%
Employment 20.5 19.8 3.4% 12.0  12.3 (2.0%) 8.5  7.5 12.3%
Motors 14.5 14.5 (0.1%) 12.8  13.6 (5.8%) 1.7  0.9 88.2%
Other  40.4 42.3 (4.6%) 33.1  36.0 (8.1%) 7.3  6.3 15.4%
Display 67.8 72.9 (7.0%) 57.8  64.5 (10.4%) 10.0  8.4 18.8%
Total underlying revenue 165.7 173.9 (4.7%) 136.9  149.9 (8.7%) 28.8  24.0 20.0%
Financial Review (continued)
Underlying Print and Digital Advertising Half-Yearly Revenue Analysis
Full year underlying First half Second half
2014 
52 week 
period 
£m
2013 
52 week 
period 
£m
%  
change
26 week
period 
£m
2013 
52 week 
period 
£m
%  
change¹
2014 
26 week 
period 
£m
2013 
26 week 
period 
£m
%  
change¹
Property 22.5  24.4 (7.8%) 12.2  13.2 (8.1%) 10.3  11.2 (7.4%)
Employment 20.5  19.8 3.4% 10.8 10.4 4.4% 9.7  9.4 2.4%
Motors 14.5  14.5 (0.1%) 7.3  7.4 (1.8%) 7.2  7.1 0.3%
Other  40.4  42.3 (4.6%) 20.6  21.8 (5.8%) 19.8  20.5 (3.3%)
Display 67.8  72.9 (7.0%) 34.0  36.2 (5.8%) 33.8  36.7 (8.2%)
Total 165.7  173.9 (4.7%) 84.9  89.0 (4.6%) 80.8  84.9 (4.9%)
– A £0.9 million revenue adjustment was 
made for the loss of a printing contract 
with News International in 2013, together 
with a cost adjustment of £0.3 million. 
(Refer to the 2013 Annual Report for 
details on the calculation basis).
– £0.8 million adjustment for pension plan 
expenses (Note 24); and 
– £0.5 million share based payments  
(Note 31). 
Advertising Revenue 
Total advertising revenues in 2014 were  
£167.2 million, a statutory decline of 4.2% from 
the previous year. The underlying decline was 
4.7% after adjusting for the effect of 53 trading 
weeks in 2014 and disposing of a number of 
smaller titles in 2013. On an underlying basis,  
the decline in total advertising revenues was 
4.6% in the first half and 4.9% in the second half. 
Property 
2014 remained a difficult year for our property 
category. Property prices grew in most of the 
regions in which we operate, however the 
market remained challenging for Estate Agents, 
our core advertising base, with volumes and 
sales commissions not matching the pace of 
price rises. The property category decline was 
7.8% year-on-year in 2014, with January to June 
declines of 8.1%, reducing to a decline of 7.4% 
in the second half of the year. Digital advertising 
grew 52.0%, albeit from a low base.
Employment
In our employment category the ‘revenue 
tipping point’ was reached, as digital revenue 
growth of 12.3% year-on-year outweighed the 
print revenue declines of 2.0% to achieve an 
overall growth of 3.4% in this category. This was 
driven by further investment in sector specific 
recruitment products, such as the ‘Accountancy 
List’. Our employment category was our 
strongest performing category over the year 
and generated £20.5 million in 2014. While  
the Employment market remains strong, our 
improving performance in this category and 
changing mix from print to digital is expected  
to continue into 2015. 
Motors
Overall the motors category generated £14.5 
million of revenue in 2014, broadly flat on prior 
year. In the second half of the year motors 
achieved a tipping point, off the back of a first 
half year decline of 1.8%. The print category 
declined 5.8% with digital growing by 88.2%. 
Other 
The ‘Other’ category includes Entertainment, 
Public Notices, Birth, Marriages and Deaths 
(BMDs) and Other Classified, DealMonster and 
other digital income. This combined category 
generated £40.4 million in revenue, an annual 
decline of 4.6%, with print declining 8.1% and 
digital growing by 15.4%. 
Display
Display advertising remains our core advertising 
category and helps to build brand awareness 
for our local and national advertisers. Overall 
display advertising generated £67.8 million 
in 2014, an annual decline of 7.0%, following 
softening national retail advertising in the lead 
up to Christmas.
Audience Growth
Our aggregate audiences have continued  
to grow year-on-year, our average monthly 
audience for the year was 27.3 million up from 
24.5 million in 2013, a growth of 11.4%. A key 
driver for this growth was our digital audience 
which grew by 35.8% from an average in 2013 
of 12.3 million to an average of 16.7 million in 
2014. Refer to the Market trends section for 
further details. 
Non-Advertising Revenue
Newspaper sales generated statutory revenues 
of £79.1 million in the year against £82.1 million 
in 2013, a decline of 3.7%. The underlying 
decline was 4.8% after taking account of the  
53 week effect and adjusting for three disposed 
titles in 2013.
Statutory contract printing revenue was down 
39.6% year-on-year almost exclusively a result 
of the termination of the News International 
contract in 2013. On an underlying basis 
revenues improved by 22.3% as a result of the 
full year effect of new print contract wins, and 
the Iconic contract following the disposal of the 
Irish titles.
¹  The % change variance has been calculated based on unrounded numbers. 29 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Operating Costs
Statutory operating costs, excluding exceptional 
items, were reduced to £213.4 million from 
£226.1 million in 2013, a £12.7 million year-on-
year reduction. 
On an underlying basis, after adjusting for 
week 53 and other adjustments (closure of 
titles, stripping out the costs associated with 
the termination of the News International print 
contract, share-based payments and pension 
plan expenses), operating costs decreased by 
£13.8 million to £210.4 million (2013: £23.6 
million year-on-year cost saving). This cost 
saving was achieved after continued investment 
in the digital business.
Operating Profit
In 2014 the Group posted its first statutory 
operating profit since 2012, reporting a statutory 
operating profit of £10.7 million, a £256.3 million 
improvement on 2013. Underlying operating 
profit grew by 2.8% year-on-year, to £55.5 million 
from £54.0 million. We have benefited from a 
reduction in depreciation. The depreciation cycle 
has reached its low point in 2014, and will rise in 
2015 off the back of digital investment in 2013 
and onwards.
Despite underlying profit growth, the trading 
environment in 2014 remained challenging. 
Total underlying Group revenues were down 
£12.3 million to £265.9 million, a decline of 
4.4%. The revenue declines were mitigated by 
cost reductions, with underlying operating costs 
reducing from £224.2 million to £210.4 million, 
a year-on-year underlying reduction of 6.2%. 
Our gross margin remains strong and grew 
from 19.4% to 20.9% on an underlying basis  
for the year.
Exceptional Items
In addition to the trading results discussed 
above, a number of items have been identified 
as exceptional either due to the size or nature of 
the item. Total exceptional operating expenses 
from continuing operations were £44.7 million 
(2013: £309.5 million). Refer to Note 6 – 
Exceptional Items and Note 10 – Finance costs 
for further information on the exceptional items. 
The exceptional items comprise: 
• £24.5 million of impairments and write-
downs on publishing titles, property and 
assets held for sale was recorded in 2014 
(2013: £270.8 million).
• £10.9 million on restructuring and other 
costs designed to reduce staff costs  
and enable operating efficiencies  
(2013: £32.0 million).
• £4.6 million for one-off retention and 
incentivisation plans for senior managers, 
one-off strategic performance bonus for 
Executive Directors and the Value Creation 
Plan for the Executive Directors (2013: £nil).
• £3.3 million net charge on pension related 
expenses including the PPF levy of £2.0 
million (2013: £6.3 million). 
• £2.3 million on professional fees and 
aborted and other disposal costs  
(2013: £0.5 million).
• A £0.9 million gain was recorded on the 
sale of press equipment and two significant 
property sales (2013: £0.2 million).
Exceptional financing costs totalling £9.1 million 
have been recognised in 2014, relating to the 
refinancing of the Group. The exceptional 
financing costs, which were largely reported  
at the half-year, comprise:
• £7.1 million of term debt issue costs 
representing the remaining term debt issue 
costs after amortisation at the date  
of repayment; and
• £11.1 million of refinancing fees relates to 
legal and professional fees associated with 
the recent refinancing that were attributable 
to the equity and bond issue, the new 
revolving credit facility, the repayment of 
former lending banks and noteholders and 
the new pension framework agreement; less 
• £9.2 million interest accrual release, which 
includes the release of the Payment-In-Kind 
(PIK) accrual of £25.7 million less £6.4 million 
PIK payment and £10.1 million ‘Make-Whole’ 
interest paid due to early debt repayment  
to Noteholders.
Exceptional revenue of £10.0 million was 
recognised in 2013, in relation to the termination 
of the News International contract. There is no 
exceptional revenue reported in 2014.
Operating Costs
Statutory Underlying
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m £m
%  
change
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m £m
%  
change
Operating expenses (213.4) (226.1) (12.7) 5.6% (210.4) (224.2) (13.8) 6.2%
Exceptional operating expenses¹ (44.7) (309.5) (264.8) 85.6% – – – –
Total operating costs (258.1) (535.6) (277.5) 51.8% (210.4) (224.2) (13.8) 6.2%
¹  Refer to the Exceptional items section on for further details on these items.
Steve Riding/The Yorkshire Post: Cyclists are cheered on as they compete in the Yorkshire stage of the Tour de France  30 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Review (continued)
All exceptional items involved cash outflows  
for the Group in 2014 other than the 
£24.5 million of write-downs on publishing 
titles, property, plant and equipment and assets 
held for sale and the £2.0 million gain on debt 
extinguishment included within the £9.1m of 
exceptional finance costs. Further details are 
included in the cash flow statement and notes 
and in Note 6 to the financial statements.
Finance Income and Costs
Net finance costs for the 53 week period ended 
3 January 2015 were £34.6 million (including 
exceptional finance costs), a decrease of £11.2 
million or 24.4% year-on-year, primarily due to 
the refinancing of the Group. The reduction in 
finance costs can be attributed to a £8.6 million 
reduction in loan interest charges, with interest 
costs reducing from £39.8 million in 2013 to 
£31.2 million in 2014, £8.3 million of one-off 
refinancing costs incurred, a £5.0 million fair 
value mark-to-market gain on borrowings and  
a £5.7 million decrease in other finance costs 
including pension finance costs. Note the mark 
to market reflects movements in the bond price 
relative to par.
Refer to Note 2 – Significant accounting  
policies and Note 22 – Borrowings for  
further information.
Loss Before Tax
The Group’s loss before tax from continuing 
operations was £23.9 million (2013: 
£291.4 million). The significant difference 
between 2014 and 2013 was the exceptional 
expense recognised in 2013 of £300.2 million 
(2013: £300.5 million reported exceptional 
items has been restated for discontinued 
operations and the adoption of IAS19R and 
restatement of pension accruals). 
Tax Rate
The statutory tax credit of £8.6 million (2013: 
£75.7 million tax credit) comprises a current tax 
credit of £0.7 million (2013: £0.7 million charge) 
and a deferred tax credit of £7.9 million (2013: 
£76.4 million tax credit). 
The tax credit of £8.6 million for the period 
was primarily attributable to the recognition of 
the tax benefit arising on the impairment write 
down on intangible publishing title assets of 
£6.0 million and the release of a tax provision  
of £0.6 million. 
The Group’s effective tax rate was 35.9% for 
the 2014 financial year and 26.0% for its 2013 
financial year. The 21.5% basic tax rate applied 
for the 2014 period was a blended rate due 
to the tax rate of 23.0% in effect for the first 
quarter of 2014, changing to 21.0% from 
1 April 2014 under the section 6 of the Finance 
Act 2013. Refer to Note 11 in the financial 
statements for further detail.
Earnings Per Share  
and Dividends 
Basic loss per share from continuing operations 
was 0.44p, compared with a loss per share of 
90.79p in 2013. 
The rights issue and subsequent share 
consolidation distorts the EPS metrics. 
For information, underlying and proforma 
calculations are presented in the table on  
the next page.
Proforma underlying earnings equate to net 
underlying profit of £27.1 million (28 December 
2013: £13.2 million) less preference share 
dividends of £0.15 million (2013: £0.15 million).
Proforma fully diluted EPS has been calculated 
based on the closing number of shares in issue 
of 105.9 million (refer to Note 27) and deducting 
the number of shares held by the Company’s 
Employee Benefit Trust of 0.5 million (refer 
Note 43). Proforma fully diluted EPS assumes 
the maximum potential dilutive impact and the 
maximum number of shares the Group could 
be called upon to issue to satisfy the full vesting 
of VCP and employee share and deferred 
bonus schemes. 
Net financing costs
Statutory
 H1 2014 
£m
H2 2014
£m
Full year 2014
£m
Full year 2013
£m
Interest on bond (2.3) (10.0) (12.3) –
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (PIK)¹ (16.9) 0.4 (16.5) (35.6)
Amortisation of term debt issue costs / RCF (2.3) (0.1) (2.4) (4.2)
Total operating finance costs (21.5) (9.7) (31.2) (39.8)
Total exceptional finance costs³ (9.1) – (9.1) (0.7)
Total finance costs³ (30.5) (9.7) (40.2) (40.5)
Net finance expense on pension liabilities/assets² (1.8) (1.6) (3.4) (5.5)
Fair value (loss)/ gain on bond (0.6) 5.6 5.0 –
Fair value (loss) / gain on hedges and retranslation of foreign debt 1.7 0.1 1.8 (0.2)
Total IFRS and other finance costs (0.7) 4.1 3.4 (5.7)
Investment income – 2.2 2.2 0.4
Total net financing costs (31.2) (3.4) (34.6) (45.8)
¹  H1 2014 includes interest on bank overdrafts and loans of £11.6m, PIK interest of £5.3m, RCF interest fee £0.2m partially offset by overpayment refund £0.6m.
²  The adoption of IAS19R and restatement of pension accruals has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses.
³  Calculated on unrounded numbers. 31 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Financing 
The Company announced on 23 June 2014  
that it had successfully completed its Capital 
Refinancing Plan (announced on 9 May 2014). 
Gross proceeds of £140.0 million were received 
by the Company in connection with the 
Placing and the Rights Issue, and further to the 
announcement made by the Company on  
14 May 2014, gross proceeds of £220.5 million 
were received from the offering of £225.0 
million 8.625% senior secured notes due  
2019. The notes were issued at a discount  
of £4.5 million. 
All amounts previously outstanding were  
repaid and or cancelled in full and, as at 23 June 
2014 the Company paid in total £332.9 million 
including the residual balance of PIK interest 
and Make-Whole, and the interest accrued to 
23 June 2014 amounting to £5 million.
In addition, under the Capital Refinancing Plan 
the Company entered into a four year and 
six months (expiring 23 December 2018) £25 
million New Revolving Credit Facility which 
currently remains undrawn. 
Professional and legal fees associated with the 
refinancing have been incurred, totalling £21.1 
million. The fees relate to £9.2 million of equity 
related costs (refer to Note 28 – Share premium), 
£7.1 million of bond issuance costs written off, 
£4.0 million relating to legal and professional fees 
attributable to the bond issue, the repayment 
of lending banks and noteholders and the new 
pension framework agreement. The £0.8 million 
fee for the revolving credit facility has been 
capitalised. Refer to Note 10b – Finance costs for 
a breakdown of the items charged to Exceptional 
finance costs, (refer to Note 6 – Exceptional items. 
Cashflow and Net Debt
Net cashflow generated from operating 
activities was £7.8 million (2013: £51.7 million), 
including £6.3 million of annual pension 
contributions, £8.2 million of one-off pension 
contributions, £10.6 million of redundancy costs 
and payables of £9.7 million. The Group also 
received £10.0 million from News International 
for the termination of the print contract in 2013. 
After adjusting for these one-off items, the 
Group generated cashflows from operations of 
£30.6 million (2013: £34.7 million). Refer to Note 
29 for further details. 
The Group maintains tight control over capital 
expenditure with £8.7 million spent (refer 
to Capital expenditure section on page 32 
for further details), while proceeds received 
from the disposal of surplus assets (primarily 
property sales, surplus press equipment) were 
£8.0 million. The net cash consideration from 
the sale of the Irish business was £5.9 million.
Cash generated through the issuance of bonds 
and capital injection from the placing and 
rights issue totalled £360.5 million. This was 
used to repay bank borrowings and loan notes 
totalling £326.5 million. Cash interest payments 
of £27.0 million were made, £21.1 million paid 
on refinancing fees (refer to Note 10 b), and 
a further £1.9 million to the Johnston Press 
defined benefit pension trust as part of the 
refinancing (included within the total pension 
funding contributions within Note 29). 
Following the refinancing, our interest charges 
on gross debt are 8.625% (2013: 11.7%, 
average interest rate). The Group’s net debt 
position has improved significantly compared  
to previous periods with fair value net debt of 
£184.6 million at 3 January 2015 (2013: £302.0 
million), a reduction of £117.4 million from the 
prior year. Excluding the mark-to-market on 
the bond and day one discount, totalling £9.6 
million, the Group’s net debt was £194.2 million 
at 3 January 2015 (2013: £304.4 million).
Excluding the mark-to-market on the bond 
and day one discount, totalling £9.6 million, 
the Group’s net debt was £194.2 million at 3 
January 2015 (2013: £304.4 million).
Discontinued Operations
As disclosed at the half year, on 1 April 2014  
the Group announced and completed the 
disposal of the Republic of Ireland titles to  
Iconic Newspapers, for cash consideration of 
£7.1 million (proceeds net of disposal costs was 
£5.9 million). The assets had been written down 
at 28 December 2013 in anticipation of the 
disposal and no further profit or loss has been 
recorded in the current period for the disposal. 
Refer Note 14 for further details.
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-Current Assets 
Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’, the 
results and cash flows of this ‘disposal group’ 
are reported separately from the performance 
of continuing operations at each reporting date 
and comparatives have been restated.
The net profit from discontinued operations  
for the period ended 3 January 2015 was  
£0.2 million, including results from trading  
£0.1 million and net income of £0.1 million 
arising under the transitional services 
agreement (TSA). As part of the disposal, a TSA 
was agreed between the Group and Iconic 
Newspapers. The TSA provides for the provision 
of services such as pre-press, human resources, 
payroll, collections and information technology 
for varying periods of time. 
Refer Note 12 in the financial statements for 
further information.
Net Asset Position
At the period end, the Group had net assets of 
£199.9 million, an increase of £99.6 million on 
the prior year. The movement in the net asset 
position from the prior year includes: £108.0 
million reduction in borrowings following the 
Group restructuring; £22.9 million reduction  
in trade and other payables largely due to a 
reduction in restructuring provisions held at  
the end of 2013. These were partially offset  
by a £11.7 million increase in the deficit on the 
defined benefit plan as the actual return on 
assets was lower than expected and a £27.0 
million reduction in publishing title intangible 
assets following the sale of the Irish publishing 
titles and the further impairment of publishing 
titles by £21.6 million, offset by the deferred tax 
liability which has reduced by £12.0 million due 
to intangible asset write-downs and pension 
deficit increase.
Pensions
At 3 January 2015, the Group’s defined benefit 
pension scheme had a deficit of £90.0 million 
(including IFRIC 14) as measured under IAS19 
Employee Benefits (Revised). This compares  
to a scheme deficit of £78.3 million as at 28 
December 2013. The increase of £11.7 million 
in the scheme deficit is due principally to a fall  
in the net discount rate applied to the scheme 
liabilities and the recognition of an additional 
liability of £3.0 million as required under 
IFRIC 14 (refer to Note 24 ‘Retirement Benefit 
Obligation’ for further details).
The trustees of the Johnston Press defined benefit 
pension scheme and the Group concluded the 
pension scheme’s triennial valuation on  
31 December 2012 and agreed a schedule 
of cash contributions of £6.3 million in 2014, 
£6.5 million in 2015 and £10.0 million in 2016 
Earnings per share (Continuing operations)
Underlying Proforma
Basic EPS Basic EPS Fully diluted
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 EPS 2013
Earnings (£m) 26.9 13.0 26.9 13.0 26.9 13.0
Number of ordinary shares (m) 3,520.0¹ 237.8¹ 105.4 105.4 120.7 120.7
EPS (pence) 0.76 5.46 25.57 12.38 22.33 10.81
¹  Weighted average number of shares. 32 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
increasing by 3% per annum with a final payment 
of £12.7 million in 2024. Refer to Note 24 
‘Retirement Benefit Obligation’ for further details.
IAS19 Employee Benefits (Revised) was adopted 
for the period ended 3 January 2015 with 
comparatives restated. The amendments to 
IAS19R have impacted the presentation of 
pensions related gains and losses in the income 
statement and statement of comprehensive 
income. For the restated period ended 28 
December 2013, using the same discount rate 
for assets and liabilities as required by IAS19R 
reduced the level of pension income that was 
recognised in the income statement leading to 
a higher net expense of £3.9 million. 
The Group is also subject to the Pension 
Protection Fund Levy (PPF). The levy is  
charged annually and runs from 1 April to  
31 March. The amount payable for 2014/2015 
is £3.2 million. The Group has entered into a 
flexible apportionment arrangement with the 
agreement of the Plan Trustees which will result 
in a decrease in the 2015/2016 PPF levy charge. 
The Group expects to see the full benefit of 
reduced levy charges in 2016/2017, when the 
increased pension contributions commence.
In 2015, the first £2.5 million of any levy 
reduction is paid to the deficit plan. The 
contribution levels agreed as part of refinancing 
potentially give rise to an IFRIC 14 fund surplus 
as contributions agreed are greater than the 
level of the deficit recorded. In practical terms 
the Group believes a degree of flexibility exists 
in negotiating with the pension trustees to 
reset contribution levels in the medium term 
to reflect changes in the funding position. 
Legal opinion has been obtained indicating no 
unconditional right to the repayment of the 
surplus under the rules however the Trustees 
have discretion and ‘may’ repay any surplus in 
certain circumstances. As at 3 January 2015, 
the Group was liable to an IFRIC 14 liability 
of £90.0 million which led to the additional 
£3.0 million liability recognition. Since June 2014 
the Plan has been invested in leveraged LDI 
funds which have provided protection against 
around 40% of the interest rate risk associated 
with the Plan’s liabilities. This has reduced the 
Plan’s exposure to declines in interest rates over 
the period invested.
Capital Expenditure 
In the financial periods ended 3 January 2015 
and 28 December 2013, the Group incurred 
capital expenditure of £8.7 million and 
£7.3 million respectively. Of this, £5.2 million 
was spent on infrastructure including  
leasehold improvements of £1.9 million  
(2013 infrastructure spend: £4.3 million)  
and £3.5 million on developing the digital 
platforms (2013: £3.0 million). 
Financial Reporting
The IFRS standard changes applicable in 2015 
are not expected to have a material impact  
on the financial statements of the Group in 
future periods. Additional details on changes  
in the standards are included in Note 2 to the 
financial statements. 
Factors Affecting Future 
Group Performance
The performance of the Group will continue 
to be affected by the economic conditions in 
our markets, cyclical conditions, structural and 
business specific circumstances and trends in 
employment, property transactions, new car 
sales and the levels of consumer confidence. 
However, the outlook for the Group will also 
depend on a number of other factors, including:
• growing new revenues (particularly digital)  
in the Group’s existing market segments;
• ability to adapt to customer requirements 
through new sales propositions and 
advertising channels;
• continually improving existing efficient 
operations through technology 
infrastructure and improved processes; and 
• further re-engineering of the cost base of 
the business.
Liquidity and Going Concern
Following the placing and rights issue, the 
Group now has gross debt of £225.0 million. 
Cash on balance sheet at 3 January 2015 was 
£30.8 million, and the Group has access to a 
£25.0 million revolving credit facility (RCF) which 
remains undrawn. The bond (Senior Secured 
notes) has a five-year maturity due 2019, and the 
Group’s RCF matures on 23 December 2018. 
The Group’s policy is to ensure it has committed 
funding in place sufficient to meet foreseeable 
peak borrowing requirements. 
Based on its review, and after considering 
reasonably possible downside sensitivities,  
the Board is of the opinion that the Group  
has adequate financial resources to meet 
operational needs for the foreseeable future, 
and have concluded that it is appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements on a going 
concern basis.
Financial Review (continued)
Colin Marshall/Westville House School: Young pupils find a unique way to mark Le Grand Depart in Yorkshire 33 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Johnston Press continues to  
strive to operate all its Group’s 
business activities in a responsible 
and sustainable manner . 
Our commitment to corporate social responsibility is evident in the development  
of our policies, procedures and positive key performance measures, all of which  
help to demonstrate our drive to generate value for our business.
Business Ethics 
As a responsible employer as well as a key 
player in the local and digital media industry,  
we are aware of the importance of ensuring 
we follow ethical and non-discriminatory 
policies and strategies when dealing with our 
employees, suppliers, subscribers, customers 
and shareholders; accordingly we operate our 
business in accordance with a code of ethics 
and have devised policies for dealing with  
a range of legal issues such as anti-bribery 
requirements, corruption and conflicts of 
interest. The interests of the environment as 
well as the future sustainability of the business 
also have an inevitable influence upon the 
ethical strategy adopted by the Group.
During 2014, we undertook to review some  
of our key policies and procedures for dealing 
with issues raised by readers. This included 
a review of staff training measures to ensure 
that we were prepared for the launch of the 
new press regulator; the Independent Press 
Standards Organisation (IPSO). Our new 
policies and procedures were successfully 
implemented across the Group and have 
already helped to ensure that the business 
as a whole is able to more effectively and 
consistently deal with relevant editorial  
issues. This was an important objective for  
the business in addressing its commitment  
to responsible and ethical journalism. 
Our commitment to our corporate social 
responsibility aims and considerations is 
also evident from our FTSE Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) ratings (see our 
FTSE ESG ratings profile as outlined on our 
website). The ESG ratings cover three main 
areas of concern and help investors to assess 
the sustainability and ethical impact of an 
investment in a company or business. 
Board Responsibility 
The Executive Directors hold responsibility  
for ensuring that the business addresses all 
issues relating to corporate social responsibility.  
They set the tone of the ethical strategy and 
measures adopted by the business and are 
assisted and guided by the Company Secretary. 
In particular, the Directors discuss and  
review the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Statement for the business; and monitor key 
developments in corporate environmental, 
social and governance issues with a view to 
responding to changes in legislation, regulation 
and best industry practices. Moreover, any 
relevant ESG risks are also regularly assessed 
by the Board when conducting an on-going risk 
analysis of the business.
Responsibility for the drafting, reviewing and 
compliance with the Group’s human resources 
policies sits with the Director of Human 
Resources who reports directly to the Chief 
Executive Office on such matters.
Diversity
The Board continue to support gender 
diversity and equality measures including 
when considering future appointments to the 
Board. The Board currently includes one female 
Non-Executive Director and the Nomination 
Committee recognise the importance of having 
due regard to the diversity of the Board when 
assessing the criteria for future candidates.
Throughout the Group, the Board and the 
Company are mindful of the benefits of a 
diverse workforce. Our Diversity Policy makes 
clear our commitment to equal opportunity, 
fairness and respect for all. We recognise and 
appreciate the differences of age, gender, 
gender reassignment, marital or family status, 
race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, religion 
and belief and sexual orientation. We firmly 
believe that diversity adds clear value to our 
business, employees, customers, suppliers, 
shareholders and the communities we serve. 
The benefits of our policy mean that we  
have a diverse workplace reflecting those 
communities, helping us to engage with, and be 
relevant to, them. The age and gender profiles 
for our workforce is shown in the table below. 
Gender
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Female 50.43 51.60 51.40
Male 49.57 48.40 48.60
Age Group
Under 30 20.17 18.40 19.60
30 to 39 28.02 28.40 28.80
40 to 49 26.19 26.20 25.30
50 to 59 20.72 20.90 20.30
Over 60 4.90 6.10 6.00
Car Fleet 
Although our car fleet is partly owned and partly 
leased, we have continued with the transition 
towards a fully leased fleet. Our current fleet is 
comprised of 74% leased vehicles and 26% cars 
owned by the Group. 
We have also continued to implement our 
policy of utilising, where possible, vehicles with 
lower fuel emissions; in 2014 we replaced 277 
of our vehicles with lower CO 2 emitting vehicles. 
We are also keen to pursue our strategy of 
providing driving training initiatives for our  
car drivers and aim to work with our car fleet 
insurers in order to support future training 
needs and objectives.
Corporate Social Responsibility 34 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
Community Involvement
Audiences are engaging with our brands in 
more ways than ever.
When our titles rally behind a local cause, 
charity or campaign, more people read about  
it, hear about it and are able to get involved  
with it quicker than ever before – thanks 
to social media tools such as Twitter and 
Facebook. Money can be donated to worthy 
causes at the click of a button, generosity  
can spread in a heartbeat, and in 2014 our 
campaigns yet again provided an invaluable 
service to the communities we work in. 
It is the responses of our readers and 
customers which serve as the most important 
indicator of our performance, and we are 
always delighted to receive external recognition 
of the expertise and talent within the Group. 
The Sheffield Star’s recognition by the Press 
Gazette for the ‘Heroes of Hillsborough’ feature, 
the response to The Yorkshire Post’s Loneliness 
Campaign (see below) and the impact of our 
Business Rates campaign to support small 
businesses (a collaborative effort supported  
by many of our titles) are just a handful 
of examples that highlight the on-going 
commitment we have to making a difference 
within our communities. 
It’s not just charities or those in need which  
can benefit from our involvement. Weather 
warnings, police appeals or emergency alerts 
can be shared immediately via our own social 
media outlets and websites and help to fulfil 
our pledge of being the number one provider  
of news and information services. 
Loneliness:
The Hidden  
Epidemic
In February The Yorkshire Post launched 
one of its most far -reaching campaigns, 
calling for action to help the thousands of 
people across the region suffering the 
misery of loneliness.
Its two main aims were for loneliness to be universally recognised  
as a health priority in its local communities and to encourage its 
readers to volunteer for support services.
Throughout the year the title delved into all aspects of loneliness, 
determined to bring the plight of the lonely in the region to 
prominence through a series of stories, interviews and profiles. 
The campaign received high-profile support from leading politicians, 
including Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg and Health Secretary 
Jeremy Hunt, charities including Contact the Elderly, Independent Age  
and Friends of the Elderly and Silver Line founder Esther Rantzen.
And in May the campaign was recognised by the Newspaper Society 
(now the News Media Association) when it won the Local Newspaper 
Week award for the newspaper campaign which had made the 
biggest difference to its community.
The campaign was also nominated alongside the country’s biggest 
national newspapers in the Older People in the Media Awards.
The awards recognise and reward the best examples of media 
coverage concerning older people’s issues and are run by the charity 
Independent Age.
The campaign is still ongoing and since its launch, four local 
authorities that have previously come under fire have pledged action 
in tackling loneliness and many of our readers have volunteered for 
support services.
In 201 4 our 
campaigns yet again 
provided an 
invaluable service  
to the communities 
we work in.  35 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
More than 80 of the Group’s daily and weekly titles all over the UK ran 
a series of special supplements chronicling the history of the war.
Over the course of five fortnightly supplements, every facet of the 
war was examined, from life in the trenches to the home front, to the 
many social and historic changes brought about by the conflict.
The armistice and legacy of remembrance were also a key focus 
of the Group supplement project and this gave Johnston Press the 
opportunity to partner with the Royal British Legion and its Scottish 
counterpart, Poppyscotland.
Every page of the supplement, which reached many thousands of 
readers, featured the RBL or Poppyscotland logos and many adverts 
promoting the work of the ex-servicemen’s charities were run in 
either the supplements, or the main papers.
In the fifth part of the supplement, which focused on the end of the 
war and its aftermath, a double-page spread was given over to the 
work of the charities in supporting ex-servicemen and women and 
the vital work of the annual poppy appeal.
Johnston Press has also made a sizeable donation to the RBL and 
Poppyscotland, signing over a proportion of the revenues from  
the project.
Reader response to the supplements was incredibly positive, with 
many people commenting how it has helped complement school 
curriculum work on the subject as well as being a fascinating read 
and a must-keep souvenir.
The local titles also used the group supplement as a springboard  
to launch their own localised coverage of the many events taking 
place around the country – from Scotland to the south coast and 
Northern Ireland – to mark the centenary.
The content from all the supplements became available on all 185 
Johnston Press websites and attracted many tens of thousands of 
page views.
Royal British  
Legion Partnership
At the going down of the sun and in the 
morning, we remembered them. Johnston 
Press was proud and honoured to create  
a unique partnership with the Royal British 
Legion and Poppyscotland as part of a 
project to mark the centenary of the 
outbreak of World War One.
Employee Involvement
We employ over 3,200 people (full-time 
equivalent) in the UK and our aim is to attract, 
retain and engage the best people. The 
Company wishes to be (and be seen as) a 
great place to work and a significant review of 
our culture, which started in 2013, continued 
to evolve in 2014. The YourSay all-staff survey 
launched in 2012, identified key areas for 
improvement and many of these changes were 
implemented during the year. Our internal 
communications channels were reviewed, 
ideas and feedback taken on board and, as a 
result, led by Ashley Highfield, we have fostered 
a more transparent and inclusive approach 
across the entire business. We plan to further 
build on these significant changes in 2015. 
Our expectations in terms of managers’ and 
employees’ behaviour and standards are set 
out in our Value Statements, Personnel Policies 
& Procedures, Employee Handbook, Codes  
of Conduct and Contracts of Employment.  
Our grievance and whistleblowing procedures 
allow any employee to report behaviour that  
is contrary to our policies or is in any way of 
concern to them. We recognise a number  
of trade unions at an operating company  
level. We also have employee forums for 
communication and consultation. A diverse 
workforce adds clear value for our employees, 
customers, shareholders and the communities 
we serve and we fully support the principle of 
equal opportunity for all. You can read more 
about our work on diversity on page 33. Key 
priorities, as we look to implement our new 
strategy, are identifying and developing 
leadership talent at all levels and succession 
planning. Our Disability Access policy is included 
in our Personnel Policies & Procedures manual. 
As part of our on-going property and health  
and safety audits and property maintenance 
programmes, we seek to provide suitable 
access and working environments to ensure 
that we do not discriminate against disabled 
employees or customers.  36 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Energy Consumption and Associated Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO 2 equivalent)
Consumption GHG Emissions (CO2 Equivalent Tonnes)
2014
 GHG Conversion 
Factor (2014)⁴ 2014 2013⁵ 2012⁵
SCOPE 1
1
Gas Combustion (Heating at Johnston Press premises) / (kWh) 9,005,603 0.18458 x 10³ 1,662 2,579 3,378
Oil Combustion (Heating at Johnston Press premises) / (litres) 28,914 2.93430 x 10³ 85 90 154
Commercial Vehicles (all Johnston press vehicles) / (km) 8,583,790 0.25090 x 10³ 2,154 2,487 2,855
Total SCOPE 1 3,901 5,156 6,387
Total SCOPE 1 – Per Million Pages Printed 156.0 206.2 182.5
SCOPE 2
2
Generation of Grid electricity used / (kWh) 19,467,311 0.53310 x 10³ 10,378 12,711 17,272
Total SCOPE 2 10,378 12,711 17,272
Total SCOPE 2 – Per Million Pages Printed 415.1 508.4 493.5
SCOPE 3
3
Business travel (road not including company vehicles) / (km) 4,821,649 0.20490 x 10³ 988 1,064 1,188
Business travel (air) / (km) 695,759 0.17276 x 10³ 120 119 226
Business travel (rail) / (km) 2,542,663 0.04904 x 10³ 125 113 119
Electricity for contracted printing (generation transmission  
and distribution) / (kWh) 1,758,232 0.53310 x 10³ 937 987 960
Gas for contracted printing / (kWh) 409,589 0.18458 x 10³ 76 95 92
Overall Total SCOPE 1, 2 and 3 16,525 20,245 26,244
Overall Total SCOPE 1, 2 and 3 Per Million Pages Printed 661.0 808.3 750.0
Notes:
¹  Scope 1 covers the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which Johnston Press is responsible. This means emissions from sources 
that are under the operational control of the company.
²  Scope 2 covers the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent resulting from the purchase of electricity by Johnston Press for its own use. In line with 
the latest guidance from Defra emissions from the generation of electricity used are included in Scope 2, whilst emissions associated with the transmission and distribution of 
electricity used are included in Scope 3.
³  Scope 3 covers other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. where the emissions are from sources that are not owned by Johnston Press and where the company does not have 
operational control.
⁴  UK Government Conversion Factors for Company Reporting have been used throughout.
⁵  Greenhouse gas emissions associated with electricity consumption have been restated for previous years to account for material changes to the conversion factors provided by  
the government for company reporting purposes.
All numbers in italics are based on un-audited data provided by contractors.
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
James Hardisty/The Yorkshire Post: Amelia Clayton, 4, rides past  
a wall of colour from the huge display of Rhododendrons  
in the grounds of Temple Newsam, Leeds 37 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Environmental Policy 
We aim to continue to ensure that our Group’s 
activities accord with sound environmental 
practices. Accordingly, we have continually 
sought to review the Group’s operations  
with a view to minimising any impact upon  
the environment.
Energy and Climate Change
The Group’s strategy towards reducing its 
overall energy consumption in relation to its 
operations has continued to prove effective 
with further reductions being affirmed again  
for this year.
The overall reduction in the Group’s energy 
usage can be attributed to further consolidation 
of our business premises, including a number 
of office moves into more energy efficient 
buildings, as well as the implementation 
of other energy efficiency incentives. The 
Group has progressed with the installation of 
Automatic Meter Reading systems for both  
gas and electricity throughout its premises, 
which will enable more accurate monitoring 
and eliminate estimated readings.
Consumption of Energy
On average we managed to further reduce 
consumption of gas this year by approximately 
35% and grid electricity consumption by 18% 
– helping to demonstrate the effectiveness 
of our commitment towards reducing energy 
consumption and continuing as a long-term 
year-on-year trend. We also continue to strive 
to ensure that our partners and third parties 
are able to assist with the provision of accurate 
data in relation to the assessment of the 
environmental impact of our activities. Such 
data helps to identify positive results as well as 
highlighting any potential areas of improvement 
and assists with the development of future 
strategy in relation to environmental issues.  
The Group established its Carbon Footprint 
Taskforce in 2008 and it was instrumental 
in taking the lead in the development of our 
environment policy; it is therefore anticipated 
that this body will again assist with the further 
promotion of energy efficiency and recycling 
measures in the coming years. 
Paper Supply and Waste 
Management
The Group continues to buy all its newsprint 
from sustainable sources and over 95%  
is supplied as 100% recycled newsprint.  
Virgin fibre is used in some products but this 
represents less than 5% of consumption. All this 
fibre is from sustainable renewable sources and 
carries FSC certification from the paper mills.
Newsprint is also supplied in the main from UK-
based paper mills in order to ensure that we 
keep the carbon footprints of the distribution 
services to a minimum. The majority of paper 
is supplied from paper mills in the UK that use 
100% recycled fibre recovered from curb side 
collection points and wholesaler returns. Some 
paper is also sourced from managed forests 
that are certified and regulated for paper 
making manufacture.
As a member of the Newspaper Industry 
Materials Committee, part of the Newspaper 
Publisher Association (NPA), the Group also 
participates in both environmental and  
energy saving initiatives in the manufacture  
and supply of materials needed for the 
production of newspapers. It also supports the 
Two Sides campaign, a pan European body 
responsible for the promotion and responsible 
use of paper products. This promotes the use 
of sustainable and reusable products in the 
newspaper industry.
In 2013, 83.5% of recycled fibre went into the 
production of newsprint in the UK and the 
Group always strives to ensure that its actual 
supply is higher than the government guidelines 
and the industry-wide statistics reported in  
this regard.
The Group recycles all its paper and non-paper 
waste stream through audited environmental 
companies. These processes have been in place 
for several years and are in accordance with the 
Environmental Protection Act and Hazardous 
Waste Regulations and are ISO 14001 
accredited. The Group also complies with the 
packaging waste regulations in the disposal of 
non-hazardous materials used in the packaging 
of its products.
Redundant IT equipment is collected for 
recycling in line with the relevant regulations. 
This process is carried out by our partners who 
are ISO 27001 and ISO 14001 compliant as well 
as being ADISA
2
 accredited. 
Health and Safety
The improvement of Health and Safety is a key 
priority and we are committed to providing 
safe and healthy working conditions for all our 
employees, visitors and contractors, and for our 
safety performance continues to be one of the 
lowest reported accident figures in our industry. 
For the fourth year running we have reduced 
the number of accidents – by 68% year-on-
year – and have also achieved lengthy periods 
without any reportable accidents. 
Our publishing sites have to date, achieved 18 
months without any ‘lost time’ accidents and 
our print sites achieved 33 months without 
a ‘lost time’ accident until October 2014. Our 
environment working charter has improved 
working conditions and general work areas and 
this has also played a part in achieving such 
impressive accident statistics. 
We believe that our focus on addressing the 
causes of accidents – and our insistence on 
Employees involved in accidents
2014 2013
Average FTE¹ 3,241 3,729
No. of employees involved in accidents 48 70
Publishing 1.1% 1.3%
Printing 0.5% 6.8%
Total 1.4% 1.9%
 
Employees involved in RIDDOR
*
 reportable accidents 1 1
Publishing 0.00% 0.03%
Printing 0.03% 0.00%
Total 0.03% 0.02%
Total Working Days Lost 21 10
*  RIDDOR is the reporting of injuries, diseases, and dangerous occurrences. 
¹  Restated to exclude discontinuing operations FTE.
²  The ADISA (Asset Disposal and Information Security Alliance) Industry standards have the primary objective of measuring a service providers capability for providing secure asset 
recovery and data sanitisation services to businesses. 38 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
adhering to best practice and procedures –  
has played a significant part in our improved 
performance in recent years. Although we 
are proud of this achievement, our work will 
continue to ensure every effort is made to 
maintain this record. Each Group company  
has a Health and Safety Committee, chaired  
by its publishing unit’s Managing Director –  
who ensures all actions are completed.  
This is monitored by the Group Health and 
Safety Manager. 
The Board, under the supervision of the Chief 
Executive Officer, has overall responsibility for 
health and safety and receives regular reports 
in this regard.
In addition, we have a Group Health and Safety 
Committee made up of representatives from 
key areas across the business. The Committee, 
in conjunction with the Group Health and 
Safety Manager, instructs and reviews audit 
visits, monitors compliance with Group policies, 
ensures those policies are kept up to date  
and encourages best practice.
The Group Health and Safety Manager 
coordinates independent audits of all our main 
sites and works closely with each of the site 
Health and Safety Officers to ensure effective 
performance, and this, once again, has helped 
all sites to improve their scores in our rolling 
programme of internal audit inspections. 
Our consistent reporting processes have now 
been in place for more than ten years, allowing 
performance over time to be measured. 
Ensuring that every accident is reported  
is a key part of our control environment. 
Approval
This strategic report was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 25 March 2015 and 
signed on its behalf by: 
Ian Russell
Chairman
25 March 2015
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
T our de France
On a sunny weekend in July the eyes 
of the world turned to Yorkshire as 
one of the largest sporting events 
arrived in ‘God’s Own County’.
The Grand Depart of the Tour de France was watched in 188 
countries and as cyclists weaved their way through the cities, towns, 
villages and hamlets of Britain’s largest county the sheer scale and 
spectacle was as breath-taking as the scenery. 
Millions of people turned out to watch the colour and fervour and 
relish in the extraordinary atmosphere as the competitors passed by. 
And our titles were there to capture every second of that one 
amazing weekend. 
‘Yorkshire Glory: The World Looks to us This Weekend’ was the 
headline of The Yorkshire Post and the flagship daily pulled out  
the stops. 
In the run-up to the event and on the weekend of Le Grand Depart 
the title brought out five supplements and published on a Sunday  
for the first time since the funeral of Princess Diana.
All the hard work that went into weeks of planning paid off. The 
Yorkshire Post added more than 12,600 to its average weekly sale 
with its coverage of the start of the Tour de France.
The paper also boosted sales by 8,349 sales on the first day of  
the race – an increase of 14.6% on the previous week. And across  
the week the series of supplements helped boost the overall 
performance by an extra 12,696 copies in total.
The Yorkshire Post website, which provided minute-by-minute 
coverage, saw a 62% uplift in visitor numbers and 131% uplift  
in page impressions over the Grand Depart weekend. 
Saturday’s paper included a special souvenir edition of the paper’s 
weekly magazine, while in the week beforehand there was a 68-page 
Tour de France-themed Yorkshire Vision glossy magazine.
The coverage, which culminated in a Sunday special edition  
featuring a spectacular image-led wraparound, has also proved  
to be a huge success and continues to sell. 39 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance
During a key year in the  
development of Johnston Press  
your Board oversaw further  
significant change across the Group. 
This report forms part of the Directors’ Report 
which can be found on pages 67 to 70. The 
Company has continued in its commitment to 
comply with the principles of the 2012 United 
Kingdom Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”) as published by the Financial Reporting 
Council (https://www.frc.org.uk/Our-Work/
Publications/Corporate-Governance/UK-
Corporate-Governance-Code-September-2012.
pdf). The 2012 edition of the Code applies for 
financial years starting on or after 1 October 
2012 and introduced further reporting 
requirements for premium listed companies.  
It is the Board’s view that throughout the period 
ended 3 January 2015 the Company has been 
fully compliant with the relevant main and 
supporting principles set out in the Code.  
The Board and Executive Management monitor 
compliance with the Code and details of the 
Group’s internal controls can be found on 
pages 45 to 46.
2014 once again saw very considerable change 
for Johnston Press and your Board has had a 
key role in its oversight. We have maintained 
our focus on key strategic topics and the risks 
associated with them during the transformation 
of the Company and its provision of local media. 
In particular the Board oversaw the complex 
capital restructuring which the Company 
completed in June 2014. This was followed 
by the sub-division and consolidation of our 
share capital in November 2014. Throughout 
this period the Company has consulted with its 
largest shareholders on a range of issues and 
intends to continue to do so. The refinancing 
also saw the Group implementing a new debt 
structure through the issue of a bond, and 
agreement of a new revolving credit facility.  
The relevant agreements governing these 
arrangements contain various requirements  
for the provision of information to holders of 
our debt. This report on corporate governance 
is intended to give shareholders some detail  
of the structures which the Company 
has operated under in the past year. We 
remain committed to the principles of good 
governance and, as a Board, seek to regularly 
review not only the effectiveness of our Board 
and committees but also the wider corporate 
governance framework within which we 
operate. We do so with the aim of ensuring that 
the Group as a whole is managed effectively 
and transparently. The report which follows 
provides more detail of the workings of the 
Board, including the matters reserved to it  
and to the evaluation process which we use  
to review (and where necessary improve)  
its effectiveness. 
The reporting environment has again 
evolved this year following the considerable 
development of 2013. Our remuneration policy 
was put to shareholders for the first time at 
the annual general meeting in 2014 and I am 
pleased to say that it received strong support 
from our shareholders. You can find details of 
remuneration policy, and our implementation 
of it, in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 49 to 66. 
The Audit Committee maintains its central role 
in monitoring the Group’s systems of internal 
controls and risk framework and a separate 
report on the work of the Audit Committee  
can be found on pages 47 to 48.
The views of our shareholders on governance 
issues are welcomed and play an important  
role in shaping our structures and our reporting 
of them. We aim to reflect their feedback and 
advice in our reporting.
We will continue to seek to ensure that the 
Board has an appropriate mix of skills and 
experience. This will remain a paramount 
consideration when recruiting new Directors  
to the Board at the appropriate time and is a 
key measure in ensuring that our governance 
structures remain appropriate for the Group. 
As I stated when I reported to you last year,  
the Group tries to reflect the communities 
in which we work and to have regard to the 
benefits of a diverse workforce and details of 
this, and many of our other community and 
social initiatives can be found in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report on pages 33 to 38.
Ian Russell
Chairman
25 March 2015 40 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Biography
Term of Office
Independent
External Appointments
Committee Membership and Other Roles
Board of Directors
Mark Pain
Non-Executive
Mark is a Chartered 
Accountant and former 
Group Finance Director  
at Barrett Developments 
plc and Abbey National 
Group plc. 
David King
Chief Financial Officer
David is a Chartered 
Accountant. Previously 
he was CEO of Time Out 
Group and Chief Financial 
Officer at BBC Worldwide.
Ian Russell, CBE
Chairman
A Chartered Accountant, 
Ian was previously the  
Chief Executive of Scottish 
Power following a career 
in finance with HSBC,  
Mars Limited and KPMG.
Ashley Highfield
Chief Executive Officer
Ashley was previously  
Vice President of Microsoft, 
Director of New Media 
and Technology at the BBC 
(where he oversaw the 
launch of the iPlayer)  
and Managing Director 
of Flextech (now Virgin 
Media) Interactive.
Joined the Board in 2007. Joined the Board  
in November 2011.
Joined the Board in 2009. Joined the Board 
in June 2013.
Not applicable. Not applicable. Yes. Not applicable.
Chairman of Remploy Ltd. 
Non-Executive Director 
of British Polythene 
Industries plc, the 
Mercantile Trust plc, 
British Assets plc and HICL 
Infrastructure Company 
Limited, adviser to Clyde 
Bergemann Power Group.
Non-Executive Director 
of William Hill plc and 
Governor of the British  
Film Institute.
Non-Executive Director 
of Spirit Pub Company plc, 
Yorkshire Building Society, 
Aviva Insurance Limited 
(a subsidiary of Aviva 
Group) and Chairman 
of London Square plc.
Trustee of Reach to Teach.
Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
Not applicable. Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and 
member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration 
Committees.
Not applicable. 41 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
S tephen van Rooyen 
Non-Executive
Ralph Marshall
Non-Executive
Kjell Aamot
Non-Executive
Camilla Rhodes
Non-Executive
Peter McCall
Company Secretary
Stephen has held a number 
of senior roles at Sky since 
joining in 2006, and is 
currently Chief Marketing 
& Digital Officer. He was 
previously Director of 
Strategy at Virgin Media  
and has also worked 
at News International 
and Accenture in both 
Australia and the UK.
Ralph is an Executive 
Director of Usaha Tegas 
Sdn. Bhd, the largest 
shareholder in Johnston 
Press plc.
Kjell was formerly the  
Chief Executive Officer 
of Schibsted ASA, the 
largest Scandinavian 
newspaper publisher.
Camilla was the former 
Chief Executive Officer of 
News Magazines Ltd and 
Managing Director of Times 
Newspapers and News 
Group Newspapers,  
News International.
Peter joined Johnston Press 
plc as Company Secretary 
and Corporate Counsel in 
2009. Previously Company 
Secretary of Kenmore 
Property Group Ltd 
and Deputy Company 
Secretary of British Energy 
Group plc.
Joined the Board in 2008. Joined the Board in 2013. Not applicable. Joined the Board in 2009. Joined the Board in 2010.
No. Yes. Not applicable. Yes. Yes.
Serves on the Boards 
of several companies 
including Astro All Asia 
Networks plc as Executive 
Deputy Chairman, KLCC 
REIT Management Sdn.
Bhd and others which are 
listed on the Bursa Malaysia 
Securities Berhad.
Non-executive Director  
of CVC Capital Partners.
No external  
appointments held.
No other  
appointments held.
Advisor to FSN Capital  
and Cexense (both based  
in Norway).
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
Member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration 
Committees. 
Secretary to the 
Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration 
Committees.
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. Member of 
the Nomination and Audit 
Committees.
Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. 42 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
The Role of the Board
The Board, in its commitment to effectively operate and lead the Company held ten Board meetings in 2014. Where necessary, the Chairman meets 
privately with the Non-Executive Directors before each scheduled Board meeting. If unable to attend a meeting, Directors are encouraged to give their 
views and comments on matters to be discussed to the Chairman in advance. Attendance at meetings throughout the year by each of the Directors is 
shown below. All Directors are encouraged to share the benefit of their knowledge and experience and the Board’s evaluation process assesses their 
contribution each year. 
Throughout the year the Board has played a key role in monitoring and evaluating the development of the Group’s Strategy. The Company’s business 
model is described on pages 10 to 11. The Board reviews the performance of management in meeting the agreed objectives and goals and monitors 
appropriate remuneration levels. The Group’s management development and succession plans are scrutinised by the Board to ensure that the skills 
and competencies of management correspond to the Group’s requirements. At least one Board meeting each year is wholly devoted to strategy and to 
the consideration of a plan for the long-term growth and development of the Group. This is reviewed and discussed as appropriate at the other Board 
meetings held during the year.
The Board’s primary task is to ensure that the Company (and its wider group of subsidiaries) have sufficient financial resources and talent in order to 
meet its core objectives by:
• reviewing and approving the overall Group strategy and direction;
• approving of the financial statements, as well as revenue and capital budgets; 
• setting, implementing and maintaining audit processes and risk management policies, to ensure the effective operation of the Company;
• the approval of material agreements and projects; and
• reviewing and approving of remuneration policies. 
In addition to the normal agenda at Board meetings, which is described below, the Directors usually consider one or more operational or special topics 
at each meeting. During the last 12 months such topics have included:
• the Company’s capital structure and refinancing of its debt;
• business risks;
• strategy for paid-for newspapers; 
• advertising revenues;
• display advertising;
• property portfolio;
• strategy for information technology;
• digital revenues and publishing;
• talent and human resource requirements;
• the Company’s final salary pension scheme;
• new product offers;
• disaster recovery plans;
• health and safety; and 
• presentations from heads of revenue generating units in relation to new business initiatives.
The authority of the Directors is specified in relevant legislation and in the Company’s Articles of Association which include powers concerning 
the issue and buy back of the Company’s shares, subject to the authority of its shareholders. At its Annual General Meeting in 2014 the Company 
did not seek authority to make purchases of its own shares. Board members also have respective commitments to the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. In 2014 there were four scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee, three meetings of the Nomination Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee held seven meetings.
 
Board Attendance
The following table indicates their attendance during the year:
Scheduled meetings
Board 
(10)
Remuneration 
Committee 
(7)
Audit 
Committee 
(4)
Nomination  
Committee 
(3)
Ian Russell 10 – – 3
Ashley Highfield 10 – – –
David King 10 – – –
Mark Pain
1
9 7 4 3
Ralph Marshall
2
8 – – 3
Camilla Rhodes 10 7 4 3
Kjell Aamot
3
9 – 4 3
Stephen van Rooyen
4
9 5 – 3
¹  Missed one Board meeting arranged at short notice due to a previously arranged business commitment.
²  Missed two Board meetings (including one arranged at short notice) due to previously arranged business commitments.
³   Missed one Board meeting arranged at short notice due to a previously arranged business commitment.
⁴   Missed one Board meeting due to a personal commitment and two Remuneration Committee meetings (one arranged at short notice) due to previously arranged  
business commitments. 43 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
During the year, the Company kept the membership of the Board and Committees under review. The Company believe that the current mix of 
individuals was appropriate throughout the year and that the Committees worked well. There were no changes to the composition of the Board during 
the year.
Board Responsibilities
The Board maintains a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for discussion and decision making, including future strategy, acquisitions 
and disposals, dividend policy, approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, capital expenditure in excess of certain limits, trading and capital budgets 
and Group borrowing facilities. At each meeting during the year, the Board considered and scrutinised management reports from the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. Following their respective appointments during the course of the year it also received reports from the Digital 
and Product Director and Group Managing Director. Each report addresses performance against a number of key strategic objectives as well as 
providing additional information regarding business performance and market and other key issues. The minutes of Board and Committee meetings 
are circulated to all Board members. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it. 
Day-to-day management of the Group, including implementation of strategy and operational decisions relating to digital and print publishing, online 
products, printing and human resources are delegated to management. The Executive Management Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors 
and other senior managers from across the Group meet weekly to review performance and consider operational issues.
The Board acknowledges the division of responsibilities for running the Board and managing the Company’s business. Ian Russell served as Non-
Executive Chairman throughout the year. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, for setting the Board’s agenda and ensuring 
that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues as well as ensuring effective communication with 
shareholders. It is also primarily his responsibility to promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-
Executive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. There were no significant 
changes to the external commitments of the Chairman during the year.
As part of their role, Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy. In addition to at least one Board 
meeting each year being dedicated to strategy, key strategic objectives are reported to the Board in the executive reports which they receive, and they 
are given regular reports and presentations on key strategic initiatives and issues. They satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and 
that internal controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible. The work and reports of the Audit Committee are used to assist the 
Board in this process. Through the Remuneration Committee they are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive 
Directors and, through the Nominations Committee, have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing, Executive Directors and in 
succession planning.
Mark Pain served as Senior Independent Director throughout 2014. The Senior Independent Director is available to address any concerns that 
shareholders may have that have not been resolved through the normal communication channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors. Throughout 
2014, the Audit Committee was chaired by Mark Pain, the Nomination Committee was chaired by Ian Russell, and the Remuneration Committee by 
Camilla Rhodes. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s Committees were reviewed by the Board during 2014 and the terms are displayed on 
the Company’s website. Membership of each Committee is detailed with the Directors’ biographies on pages 40 and 41.
Board Balance and Independence
Of the Company’s current eight Directors, two are Executive and the remainder Non-Executive, of whom four (Mark Pain, Camilla Rhodes, Kjell Aamot 
and Stephen van Rooyen) are regarded as independent. Throughout the year, the Company complied with the requirement of the Code, defined on 
page 39, that at least half of the Board (excluding the Chairman) should consist of independent Non-Executive Directors. Ralph Marshall was appointed 
to the Board as the nominee Director of Usaha Tegas which owns 10.63% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. He is therefore not regarded 
as independent. Details of each Director are provided on pages 40 and 41. The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during office hours and for at least 15 minutes prior to the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting at the place where that meeting is held.
Board Committees
The reports of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 47 to 48 and 49 to 66 respectively.
Nomination Committee
Reporting to the Board, the Nomination Committee’s duties include regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, seeking 
suitably skilled and experienced candidates as Non-Executive Directors with sufficient time to devote to the role, and overseeing all Board 
appointments. In doing so the Committee also considers the Company’s succession planning for Executive Directors and senior managers, to ensure 
that adequate plans are in place to protect against the loss of key staff, as well as reviewing the composition of the Board and its committees. In 
considering candidates to fill Board vacancies, the Nomination Committee has regard to the benefits of, and the need to encourage, diversity, including 
gender within the Board’s membership and this is a specific consideration of the recruitment process and is included in the Committee’s terms of 
reference. The Company operates a diversity policy which commits it to equal opportunity, fairness and respect for all and opposes discrimination on 
grounds of gender, gender reassignment, age, marital or family status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, religion or belief or sexual orientation,  
or other factors that are immaterial to a person’s ability to do their job. The Board does not presently set measurable objectives for diversity amongst 
Board members. Once the requirements of a vacant role have been determined, the Committee may appoint external recruitment consultants to 
assist with the search who will also consider diversity in identifying suitable candidates. External recruitment consultants engaged for this purpose have 
no other connection with the Company. The Committee reviewed the Company’s diversity policy during 2014 and will continue to monitor this matter. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.  44 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance (continued)
Induction and Professional Development
The Company has a detailed induction programme which it makes available for new Directors. This can be tailored to specific requirements and 
includes visits to a range of the Group’s operations where appropriate and meetings and discussions with senior management and advisers.
All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various 
Committees of the Board. The assistance of the Company Secretary is available to all Directors for all matters connected to their duties.
Directors receive regular reports from executive management and a monthly finance report from the Chief Financial Officer together with 
management accounts. They are also sent regular updates on industry-related issues.
Training
Director training is undertaken as required during the year including industry specific governance and technical issues. It is the Company’s policy that 
each Non-Executive Director should seek to visit at least two of the Group’s centres each year. During site visit they receive a presentation and a tour of 
the relevant business. Individual Directors also attend a range of seminars presented by professionals throughout the year. When the Non-Executive 
Directors meet without the Executive Directors present, the balance of skills on the Board (which includes training needs) is one of the standard topics 
for the Board to consider, both individually and collectively.
Board Performance Evaluation
Under the provisions of the Code, evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies (which does not include the Company) should be conducted 
externally every three years. Although the Company is not required to undertake such a review, the Board decided that it was appropriate to undertake 
an externally facilitated evaluation during 2014. Armstrong Bonham Carter was engaged to undertake the review which took place between September 
and November 2014. Armstrong Bonham Carter is independent of, and has no other connection with, the Company. The process involved the 
completion of detailed interviews with all Directors, the Company Secretary and several other member of the Executive Management Committee who 
attend the Board’s meetings. Interviews addressed:
• the Company’s aim, the development of strategy, plans and targets;
• the suitability of the composition of the Board and the executive team in light of the aim and strategy, including a peer group review of each 
Director’s contribution to the Board’s effectiveness and the manner in which he or she makes that contribution;
• the adequacy of the financial resources and plans to successfully implement the Company’s strategy and achieve its aims;
• the suitability of the operational resources and plans to successfully implement the strategy and thus achieve the aim;
• the effectiveness of communications with employees, shareholders and other stakeholders;
• the effectiveness of the Group’s performance measurement systems;
• the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems;
• whether the Company’s remuneration policy works in attracting, retaining and motivating the executive team to achieve the Company’s aims within 
approved levels of risk; and
• whether there are any issues concerning the Board’s procedures, processes and the resources available to it which are undermining the  
Board’s effectiveness.
In addition, there were detailed discussions with the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors concerning the effectiveness of each Committee, and 
in particular, those of which they are a member. 
The topics which the evaluation exercise addressed provided the Board with an external analysis of the performance of its key duties and identified a 
number of specific areas where change could be beneficial to the Company and to the conduct of the Board and/or one or more committee. These 
are being used to assist in the planning of the Board’s business. Although specific areas were identified for change, overall the process was positive and 
confirmed the effectiveness of the Board and relevant Committees as well as the contributions of individual Directors. As a separate measure, the Non-
Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present at least annually to review his performance.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders. As part  
of this process, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make twice-yearly presentations to institutional shareholders and meet with 
shareholders to discuss any issues of concern and obtain feedback. In addition, shareholders can request a meeting with the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer throughout the year to highlight any significant concerns.
The Chairman personally contacts the leading shareholders in the Company on an annual basis to address any concerns and discuss any issues. The 
Board receive a report with regard to any discussion with shareholders and also have circulated to them the written feedback that follows the full-year 
and the half-year results presentations. Brokers’ reports and analysts’ briefings, when available, are included in the Board papers sent to the Directors 
in advance of meetings. The Board receives a quarterly update on the shareholder register with a summary of the main movements in shareholdings 
since the previous report. It also receives regular updates from the Company’s Broker, Panmure Gordon.
Members of the Board offer to meet with institutional shareholders to consider Corporate Governance matters. All the Non-Executive Directors are 
prepared to meet with shareholders to understand their views more fully or to address concerns. 
The Company also has certain obligations concerning the provision of information to providers of its debt and will liaise with agents representing those 
parties when appropriate.
Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting. It is the policy of the Board that all Directors should attend the 
Annual General Meeting and be available to answer shareholders’ questions unless unable to do so. The Company uses the Annual General Meeting  
to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation. All Directors, other than Mr van Rooyen (who had pre-existing business 
commitments) attended the Annual General Meeting in 2014. In 2014, the notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers were sent  
to shareholders more than 20 days before the meeting. 45 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Share Capital
Information on the Company’s share capital is provided in Note 27 of the financial statements.
Board Re-election
Under the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after their 
appointment and thereafter to re-election every three years. The Company is not currently a member of the FTSE 350 index of companies and 
is therefore not required to comply with the provision of the Code which requires all directors of companies in that index to be subject to annual  
re-election. However, the Board considers that it is appropriate that all Directors who wish to continue in office stand for annual re-election (as they  
did in 2013 and 2014), and accordingly the Board has recommended that resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
for the re-election of all of the current Directors who have all indicated that they wish to continue in office. The Nomination Committee have, following 
the formal evaluation process described above, considered the performance of each of those Directors who wish to stand for re-election at the 
2014 Annual General Meeting and are satisfied that those individuals’ performance continue to be effective and that they have demonstrated a clear 
commitment to their roles. 
Separately during the course of the year, the Non-Executive Directors met without Ian Russell to review his performance as Chairman and were 
satisfied that he continues to provide the necessary leadership and effectiveness for the role and has demonstrated an on-going commitment to it.
Financial Reporting
The Board is committed to presenting appropriate information about the Group’s financial position by complying with best practice and all standards 
issued by the International and UK Accounting Standards Boards relating to the disclosures which are included in this Annual Report.
Internal Control
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks  
the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and 
which is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 (the Turnbull Guidance). The Board is responsible for 
the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Code, the Board regularly assesses the principal risks facing the Company and reviews the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and system of internal control. The revised Code requirements (issued in September 2014) are being integrated into 
the Company’s current risk management process to enable the appropriate Board reviews to be undertaken in 2015 to allow continued compliance. 
The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and is based principally 
on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any 
significant weaknesses or emerging issues are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board has also performed 
a specific assessment prior to the completion of this Annual Report. This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during 
the period covered by the report including the work of the Finance Department. The Audit Committee assists the Board (which maintains responsibility 
in this regard) in discharging its review responsibilities.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has 
determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate. The key elements of the 
on-going continuous process during the period under review have been:
• Formal Board reporting on a monthly basis of the Group’s performance and on any emerging risks and issues. The monthly management accounts 
break down the results of the Group’s operations into its two reportable segments. All significant variations against budget and the previous year 
are fully examined. The day-to-day responsibility for managing each of the Group’s operations rests with experienced senior executives and the 
Group has a clear organisational structure which includes appropriate delegation of authority (which is the subject of a review in early 2015). The 
Executive Directors ensure that regular contact is maintained with all senior executives. The follow issues are amongst those reserved to the Board:
– Formal Board approval for capital expenditure over £500,000 and for other investment decisions. 
– Formal Board approval of the annual budget for the forthcoming financial year. This includes detailed and comprehensive budgets covering 
each operating business.
– Formal Board reporting of the key functional departments’ future strategy as part of the operational topics considered at Board meetings during 
the year.
– Review by the Audit Committee (with subsequent reporting to the Board) on a six-monthly basis of the work performed by the Finance 
Department and Internal Audit with respect to internal financial controls, the programme for which is agreed in advance. This work is supported 
by the Group’s financial accounting centre which ensures a consistent and compliant approach to the processing of transactions and ensures a 
uniform control process across the Group’s operations. 
During 2013 the Company undertook an externally facilitated review of its risk management including an assessment of its key risks and the systems  
of assessing and monitoring them. The conclusions of that review formed the basis for a detailed internal review of risk during 2014. The Group’s key 
risks are regularly considered by the Executive Management Committee and members of that Committee have responsibility for individual risks. The 
Board is provided with regular updates in respect of these. The Audit Committee has an oversight and monitoring role in relation to risk management 
and reviews the form of internal controls which the Company operates. It reports its findings to the Board on a regular basis following its meetings.  
The Board maintains ultimate responsibility for the monitoring and management of risk throughout the Group. Due to the changing nature of the 
Group and in order to ensure that resources are properly deployed to identify, monitor and mitigate risk, a new Head of Internal Audit and Risk was 
appointed during 2014. 46 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Steps are taken on an on-going basis to embed best practice into all the Group’s operations and to deal with areas of improvement which come to 
management’s and the Board’s attention.
In addition, senior management set policies, procedures and standards as detailed in the Group’s policy guidelines. These are reviewed and revised  
on an annual basis and tailored versions have been issued to the businesses in the specific locations where applicable. 
The guidelines include policies on:
• finance including cash/treasury controls and authorisation levels;
• trading;
• customer service;
• commercial and competition;
• technology;
• property management;
• human resources including pension administration, disability and health and safety; 
• environmental issues and energy management;
• legal and regulatory compliance; and
• business continuity. 
A key governance requirement of the Group’s financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable. 
The preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts requires the co-ordination of information from throughout the Group to a demanding timetable 
which runs in parallel with the formal audit process undertaken by Deloitte LLP. The report has been prepared by the Company’s management and 
then reviewed by the Audit Committee and subsequently the Board. In order to provide comfort to the Audit Committee and the Board, contributors 
to the report have been provided with guidance as to the requirements on the Company. The content of the report is subject to a verification exercise 
and to review by senior management. The Board has reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and the reports of management regarding its 
preparation and believes that the explanation and disclosures set out on pages 1 to 38 provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. Accordingly, having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought to its attention 
during the year into account, each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides shareholders with the requisite information for evaluating the performance and current strategy of the Company. 
Corporate Governance (continued) 47 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
The Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee’s terms of reference include 
all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee 
and are approved by the Board. A copy of the current terms of reference is available on the Company’s website.
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance and 
reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls and the Group’s internal control and risk management systems and making 
proposals to the Board as to the need, or otherwise, for changes to those systems;
• making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment  
of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors;
• reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
• reviewing (with subsequent reporting to the Board) of the conclusions of the Group’s external auditor in its annual audit and review of the half-year 
results. These reviews include discussion of any control weaknesses or issues identified by the auditors;
• developing and implementing the Group’s policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account 
relevant guidance regarding provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm; 
• reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other 
areas; and
• monitoring the risk assessment process involving all senior managers of the Group’s businesses in addition to the Executive Directors. The Group’s 
risk matrix is reviewed on a regular basis throughout the year by both the local operational and senior management. Risks are examined at regular 
executive meetings both locally and at Group level. These risk assessment sessions are held at each operation and will evaluate and address the 
risks identified. The results of these assessments are addressed in the Executive Directors’ reports to the Board. During 2014, the areas which 
senior management considered included Group strategy, customer care metrics, talent, newsprint, banking covenants, national advertising sales, 
display advertising, revenue growth and digital strategy, management resources, newspaper sales and property.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed 
and making recommendations on the steps to be taken. The Committee’s Terms of Reference permit it to oversee the selection process for appointing 
new auditors should it determine, or it becomes necessary, to do so.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Committee is normally comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mark Pain, a Chartered Accountant, who is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial 
experience and expertise for that role, and fulfils the requirement that the Committee includes at least one financially qualified member. All Audit 
Committee members are expected to be financially literate. Camilla Rhodes and Kjell Aamot, both of whom hold or have previously held board and/or 
executive management level posts in major media organisations, are also members. Details of each Director can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed at regular intervals by the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a 
member of the Audit Committee. 
Meetings
The Audit Committee is required to meet not less than three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Group’s financial calendar. The 
agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members. Each Audit Committee 
member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee meetings are attended by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Head of Finance at the invitation of the Committee and 
by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk (with effect from November 2014) and the Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, with 
minutes being circulated to all Committee members. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are also invited to attend if required to do so by the 
Committee. Towards the close of relevant meetings, all executives (with the exception of the Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit and 
Risk) leave in order for the Committee to have appropriate discussion with the external auditor (who also attends by invitation). The Audit Committee 
Chairman also has one or more private meetings with the external audit partner during the course of the year to discuss any relevant issues.
The Committee meets once during the year with the Company’s external auditor to discuss and agree the audit programme for the forthcoming 
year, together with any proposed non-audit work. Any significant non-audit work by the auditor is approved by the Committee in advance of any 
engagement letter being signed.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties
Two of the scheduled meetings in 2014 were held during the year-end audit and one was held during the interim review. Two of the meetings during 
2014 considered reports on the Group’s system of internal controls. These, together with the changes to the system effected this year, are described in 
the Internal Control section.
A fourth meeting took place in November 2014 when the Committee carried out a review of the Group’s key business risks and amendments to its 
system of reviewing and monitoring risk. The Committee is actively involved in the on-going review of risk and internal controls by the main Board. For 
additional information see the section on Internal Control on page 45.
Report of the Audit Committee 48 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In considering the financial statements for the period ended 3 January 2015, the following significant issues were addressed: 
• carrying value of publishing titles; 
• press valuations; 
• pension liabilities; and
• presentation of exceptional items.
Papers in relation to each of these topics were presented to the Audit Committee by management and also provided to the Auditors for their 
consideration and opinion. They were subsequently discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee who made a final recommendation on their 
treatment to the Board as part of its process of approving the Company’s financial statements. 
Other matters considered included structural reorganisations, business reorganisations, disposal of the Group’s business in the Republic of Ireland, 
property (including assets held for sale) and certain technical updates. 
External Auditor
At the meeting to review the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee formally considers the non-audit services provided by the Group’s external 
auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process. It is the Company’s policy that any non-audit work to be performed by the auditor, where fees on 
a cumulative basis exceed £50,000 in any financial year, must be approved by the Audit Committee. The Group’s policy requires that services and/or 
advice that require auditing are not undertaken by the external auditor. If non-audit fees for a financial year exceed the audit related fees for a year, 
then Board approval must be given.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed the:
• arrangements for ensuring the external auditor’s independence and objectivity;
• external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan;
• robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
• content of the external auditor’s reporting on internal control.
During 2014 the Company has used several professional firms for different projects. The Republic of Ireland taxation compliance and advisory work 
was undertaken by a professional firm other than the Group’s auditor.
The Committee oversaw the appointment of Deloitte LLP in 2002 and has a primary responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment and  
removal of auditor. The Committee conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process as part of its work during the year.  
The Committee reviewed the auditor’s plan for the year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner and key audit staff, the arrangements for 
day-to-day management of the audit, if there were any conflicts of interest and the extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor. The Company’s 
auditors may be engaged to undertake non-audit work in limited circumstances when it is considered beneficial, in the opinion of the Committee, 
that their knowledge and/or expertise are deployed by the Company. Non-audit related services provided in 2014 consisted of professional advice in 
relation to the Group’s capital refinancing plan, taxation compliance services, other taxation advisory services and pension scheme audit services with 
total fees of £452,000 (see Note 7). The advice was provided by partners and staff who had no involvement in the audit of the financial statements. The 
Committee is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external audit is safeguarded. The Committee has considered the likelihood of a 
withdrawal of the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
The Committee has recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor. On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the 
Directors will be proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP at the Annual General Meeting in 2015. In making that recommendation, the Committee 
considered the performance of the external auditor in previous years and took account of their knowledge of the Group and of the fact that the  
Group remains in a considerable period of change, through which continuity of auditor was felt to be important. The audit partner rotated at the 
commencement of the 2012 interim review and will continue to rotate every five years, subject to Deloitte LLP’s ongoing appointment. Although the 
Company has no current plans to retender the contract for audit services it reserves the right to do so and will comply with a requirement to retender 
such contract to which it is or may be subject in the future.
Report of the Audit Committee (continued) 49 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Annual Statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the period ended 3 January 2015. As well as complying with the reporting 
requirements of the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, it gives me the opportunity to update shareholders on Remuneration Committee 
activities during the year, explaining how we have approached the remuneration of our most senior executives and how this supports the key short 
and long-term priorities for your Company. 
Following a comprehensive review of remuneration last year, we are not proposing any changes to the Remuneration Policy that was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM. Although not required by the regulations, the substantive terms of the Remuneration Policy report are reproduced for 
ease of reference. Therefore, this report is split into three parts: (i) this Annual Statement, (ii) the Remuneration Policy Report and (iii) the Annual Report 
on Remuneration which will be put to an advisory shareholder resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
This has been a busy and important year for Johnston Press and consequently a busy year for the Committee. We continue to make good progress in 
the implementation of our strategic growth plans, albeit against a difficult background for our industry and the economy generally, where recovery has 
been mixed in the areas in which we operate. In determining remuneration, we have to balance the expectations of shareholders with the need to 
retain and incentivise our key people resources. We explain below the Committee’s activities during the year and our reasoning behind the steps we 
have taken and the remuneration elements now in place or planned. 
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is approaching the end of its ten-year life and the Committee would like to extend its life by a further four years.  
The terms of the original PSP which was approved by shareholders in 2006 will remain unchanged. There will be a separate resolution at the 2015 
AGM to approve the extension of the Plan. 
Key Remuneration Activities and Decisions
The main activities of the Committee since last year are summarised below, with further detail in the appropriate sections of the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. 
• The Value Creation Plan (VCP) was introduced and awards were granted. Approved at last year’s AGM, the VCP is designed to align the senior team 
with shareholders by giving executives a stake in the future success of the Company. Awards were accordingly made to the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer and six members of the senior team. There were no other share-based awards granted to the senior team during the year, 
other than to satisfy prior commitments made to the Chief Executive on recruitment. 
• The Committee assessed the performance of the Company against the targets set for 2014, assessed the individual performance of the members 
of the Executive Management Committee (EMC), including the Executive Directors; and determined annual bonuses for the EMC for 2014.
• Bonus targets and metrics for the 2015 annual bonus plan have been set. 
• Awards made in 2011 under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) to a number of senior managers, including the Chief Executive, were tested for vesting. 
• The base salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed. 
• The Committee considered remuneration trends in the market generally to inform remuneration decisions and also kept up to date with 
developments in corporate governance to ensure we remain both competitive and compliant.
• Finally, we anticipated and debated proposed changes to Directors’ remuneration within the agreed policy, including the proposed extension of the 
existing PSP for a further four years. 
Business Priorities and Context and Remuneration Outcomes for 2014
A key activity for 2014 was the strengthening of the balance sheet, through refinancing and capital restructuring, which was successfully completed in 
mid-year. This has transformed the Company’s financial position and given it a sound foundation for the future. Against a continued difficult trading 
environment, the Company has made good operational progress which is confirmed by the following performance against KPIs.
• While EBITDA decreased, underlying profit rose from £54.0 million to £55.5 million.
• Digital Revenues grew from £24.0 million to £28.8 million, an increase of 20%, on an underlying basis.
• Aggregate digital audience grew by over 30%.
• Net Debt fell from £302.0 million to £184.6 million, a reduction of 39%.
• Audience satisfaction was maintained.
• Total underlying operating costs reduced by £13.8 million, a reduction of 6.2%.
As we disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, the 2014 annual bonus for Executive Directors comprised two elements. The core bonus was based 
on the most relevant operational outputs, including EBITDA, Digital Revenue and Audience Growth targets as well as satisfaction measures. Reflecting the 
performances set out above, bonuses equivalent to 49% and 53% of the maximum potential were payable to the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer respectively. Performance against these targets for bonus purposes is detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration section. 
The importance of strengthening the balance sheet was reflected in the inclusion in the 2014 annual bonus plan of an additional one-off bonus 
element for the Executive Directors which was payable based on strategic, balance sheet strength factors as we disclosed in last year’s report. In the 
Committee’s view, and after considering input from the Company’s financial advisers, a successful outcome was delivered: a high yield bond of 
£220.5 million was raised (net of the £4.5 million day one discount), plus £140 million of equity; the Company’s cost of capital was significantly reduced; 
savings of nearly £19 million in accruing Payment-In-Kind payments were made; and a revision to the pension scheme refinancing was agreed with the 
plan Trustees. The Committee believes this is a positive result and provides the Company with a sound platform for future growth. Consequently, this 
element of the bonus was approved in full for the Executive Directors. This results in total bonus for the Chief Executive of 118.5% of salary and of 
103.1% for the Chief Financial Officer. Half of the full bonus payable will be deferred into shares for three years.
November 2014 marked the third anniversary of Mr Highfield’s appointment as Chief Executive. At the time of joining and in order to secure his 
appointment, the Company granted Mr Highfield a PSP award of 125% of salary, as permitted under the PSP plan rules. Reflecting the 171% return  
to shareholders during the three year performance period, which gave the Company a top quartile ranking against other Media peers, the TSR 
performance metric applying to 50% of the awards was met. However, the 50% relating to EPS growth was not met and these awards lapsed. The 
annual report on remuneration, in line with the new reporting regulations, places a value on the vested awards of £644,758 and gives a total single 
figure of total remuneration for the year of £1,649,000. 50 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
While the new reporting regulations have made the link between performance and take home pay clearer, I think it is useful to provide some additional 
context particularly as the single figure total is not the actual remuneration that Mr Highfield received in respect in 2014. The PSP is a long term plan 
and, therefore, the November 2014 vesting recognises Mr Highfield’s efforts over the last three and a half years rather than 2014 alone; the strong 
share price performance during the period from grant through until the date of vesting has produced a PSP vesting value which is two and a half times 
bigger than the original value of the TSR shares at grant (c.£250,000 rather than £645,000); the subsequent PSP awards have been made on lower 
percentages of salary and well within the 125% of salary individual limit in the plan rules; and, at the time of this report, Mr Highfield has not exercised 
these awards - when he does so, 50% of these shares (after the sale of some to meet tax obligations) will be required to be held by Mr Highfield until 
he meets a holding with a value of 200% of salary under the Company’s Share Ownership Guidelines. In addition, as mentioned earlier, £241,000 of the 
single figure value apportioned to annual bonus will be deferred in shares and these will not vest until 2018 and are subject to continued employment.
The Committee is comfortable that the incentive outcomes over the relevant performance periods reflect the level of performance achieved in what 
has been a challenging and difficult external environment.
Policy for 2015
We are committed to ensuring that rewards for Executive Directors are closely aligned to the interests of shareholders through having all our incentive 
arrangements linked to challenging performance targets, focused on growing earnings, generating shareholder returns and ensuring the long-term 
success of the business. This objective continues. 
We undertook a comprehensive review of remuneration in 2013 and the changes recommended were approved at the 2014 AGM. No changes to the 
Policy are proposed for 2015. We set out below details of how the policy is to be applied in 2015:
• The Committee has decided to increase the Chief Executive’s base salary to £430,000 and the Chief Financial Officer’s to £275,000 with effect  
from 1 January 2015. In determining these reviews, we took into account each executive’s individual performance and contribution, salaries in 
comparable companies and the range of salary increases in the rest of the Company. For the Chief Financial Officer, the increase reflected the fact 
that we purposefully positioned his salary on appointment below market levels and the 2015 salary reflects his strong performance and increased 
experience in the role since appointment.
• The maximum bonus potential reverts to 120% for the Chief Executive and 100% for the Chief Financial Officer. Bonus measures are broadly similar 
but no longer include the additional element specifically related to the 2014 strategic objectives. In line with the Policy, half of the total bonus 
earned and payable in March 2016 in respect of 2015 performance will be deferred in shares for three years, vesting in 2019.
• It is planned that future long-term incentive awards will be made under the PSP, retaining the same performance measures – relative TSR and  
EPS – as existing awards. 
• As the PSP will expire next year, the Company is seeking to extend the plan for a further four years without any change to the approved individual 
limits. This proposed extension does not require a new Remuneration Policy vote but there will be a separate resolution to approve the PSP’s 
extension. The extended plan will be reviewed at our next policy review (which is scheduled for 2017). 
Shareholder Feedback
The Committee will continue to encourage dialogue with the Company’s shareholders and we will consult with major shareholders ahead of any 
significant future changes to the remuneration policy. We were delighted that the 2013 Remuneration Policy received an 89% vote in favour and that 
our Annual Report on Remuneration received more than 99% support. Thank you for your continued support.
Yours sincerely
Camilla Rhodes
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report sets out the remuneration policy operated by the Group in respect of Executive Directors and has been 
prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the “Act”) 
and also in accordance with the requirement of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. The policy has been developed taking into account 
the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied in relation 
to the current financial year and future financial years. The Remuneration Policy was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) held on 27 June 2014, and, received shareholder approval. The ‘Effective Date’ of the policy was the date of the AGM, held on 27 June 
2014. Although not required by the regulations, the substantive terms of the approved Policy are reproduced here for ease of reference. Details that 
were specific to 2014 or earlier years (including the Remuneration Scenario chart) have been updated, where required, to report the current position. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations. The parts of the Annual Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in that report. The Annual Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report are not subject to audit.
  
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Annual Statement (continued) 51 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
The Committee’s Remuneration Policy aims to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the highest calibre needed to maintain the Group’s strong 
position in its varied markets, to drive the future success of the business and to reward them for delivering long-term value to shareholders. 
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance-related. Executive 
Directors may earn annual bonus payments together with the benefits of participation in share schemes and these arrangements are described below.
The Committee reviews the performance criteria attached to short and long-term incentives each year and their appropriate mix to ensure that they 
are aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives and future direction.
The Committee has also considered the structure of the Directors’ remuneration packages from a risk perspective. It remains satisfied that the 
packages, which include a base salary, an annual bonus (with a significant element paid in shares, receipt of which is deferred) and long-term 
incentives, do not encourage inappropriate risk taking. Risk is taken into account when setting the targets under variable incentive schemes. This is 
done by ensuring that a mix of metrics is used and targets, while stretching, are realistic, attainable, for the long-term benefit of the Company and 
achievable without taking inappropriate business risks.
In reviewing the remuneration policy, the Committee has the discretion to take into consideration (amongst other factors) corporate performance on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues. The Committee is satisfied that ESG risks are not raised by the incentive structure through 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The next table sets out a summary of each element of the Executive Director’s remuneration packages, the policy for how these are operated and their 
link to the Company’s strategy.
 
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Base salary To attract and retain 
high-calibre 
individuals.
 
Reflects an 
individual’s 
experience, role and 
performance.
Salaries are normally reviewed 
annually or when an individual 
changes position or 
responsibility. Any changes  
as a result of the annual salary 
review normally take effect 
from 1 April. The Committee 
reserves the right to review 
salaries at other times if/when 
appropriate. 
In deciding appropriate levels, 
the Committee takes into 
account:
• the commercial need  
to do so;
• the market rates for similar 
positions in companies of 
comparable size and 
complexity and appropriate 
media companies; 
• the role, experience 
responsibility and 
performance (individual 
and company); and
• increases applied to the 
broader workforce.
Salaries are benchmarked 
periodically and are set by 
reference to companies of 
a similar size and complexity.
No maximum applies.
Salary levels will be eligible for 
increases during the three- 
year period that the 
Remuneration Policy operates 
from the effective date.
Generally, annual increases 
will be in line with employee 
increases but higher increases 
may be awarded on occasion 
where an individual is 
promoted or has been 
recruited on a below market 
rate or where there have been 
material changes to individual 
responsibilities or in the size 
or complexity of the business.
Performance and Development Process.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 52 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Benefits To aid retention and 
remain competitive in 
the market place.
Benefits, which are in line  
with the market offering in 
comparable companies,  
may include a car (or car 
allowance), telephone, health 
insurance, long-term illness 
cover, and life assurance.
Temporary relocation or other 
related expenses may be 
offered, as required.
Executives may participate  
in the all-employee HMRC -
approved Save As You Earn 
(SAYE) option scheme or 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
Market competitive levels  
and reflects the costs of  
some benefits provided by 
third parties.
Awards are made up to the 
HMRC individual SAYE and SIP 
limits. The Company makes no 
commitment to offer SAYE or 
SIP participation in any year.
Not applicable.
Pensions To aid retention and 
remain competitive in 
the market place.
The Company may contribute 
into the Johnston Press 
Retirement Savings Plan 
(JPRSP), a private pension or 
pay a salary supplement in 
lieu of pension.
The Company may make 
pension contributions of up to 
25% of basic salary and match 
any individual contributions up 
to a maximum of 5% of salary.
Only base salary is 
pensionable.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus To motivate 
executives and 
incentivise the 
achievement of key 
financial and strategic 
targets over the year 
without encouraging 
excessive risk taking.
The additional bonus 
potential for 2014 
was to motivate and 
reward the significant 
additional effort 
required to achieve 
significant financial 
benefits following a 
successful capital 
raising that provides 
a strong platform for 
future growth.
The Committee considers and 
approves the measures and 
targets at the start of each 
year and ensures they are 
aligned with business strategy 
and are sufficiently stretching.
In setting the appropriate 
financial parameters, the 
Committee takes into account 
the Company’s internal 
budgets and, where 
applicable, analysts’ 
expectations for the 
forthcoming year. The targets 
applying to financial measures 
are (where possible) based on 
a sliding scale.
Bonus payment is determined 
by the Committee after the 
year end by assessing the 
extent to which targets have 
been achieved.
The Chief Executive’s 
maximum bonus opportunity 
is 120% of salary and the 
Chief Financial Officer’s is 
100% of salary.
For 2014 only, a higher 
maximum applied. The  
Chief Executive Officer’s 
opportunity was 180% of 
salary and the Chief Financial 
Officer’s opportunity was 
150% of salary.
The bonus may be based on the 
achievement of an appropriate mix  
of challenging financial, strategic or 
personal targets.
Financial measures, which typically 
account for the majority of the bonus 
opportunity, may include measures such 
as EBITDA targets (or other measures of 
profit), revenue, cash flow performance 
and debt reduction targets.
For financial metrics, a range of targets 
is set by the Committee, taking into 
account factors such as the internal and 
external business outlook for the year.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report (continued) 53 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Annual bonus 
(continued)
The Company’s policy (unless 
special circumstances apply)  
is that 50% of any bonus is 
deferred in shares for three 
years under the provisions  
of the Company’s Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan. Deferred 
shares vest after three years 
subject to continued 
employment and not being 
under notice of termination.
Clawback provisions apply to 
bonuses payable to Executive 
Directors. This allows the 
Company to require the 
repayment of amounts of 
bonus in certain specified 
circumstances, including a 
material misstatement of the 
Group’s financial position, 
error in assessing the size of 
the bonus or discovery of an 
act of gross misconduct.
The Committee, in its 
discretion, acting fairly and 
reasonably, may alter the 
bonus outcome if it feels that 
the payout is inconsistent with 
the Company’s overall 
performance taking account 
of any factors it considers 
relevant. The Committee will 
consult with leading investors 
before any exercise of its 
discretion to increase the 
bonus outcome.
For 2014 only, an additional 
bonus applied. The additional 
bonus is subject to the same 
deferral and clawback 
provisions as set out above.  
In determining payout for  
this element, the Committee 
has sought the input of the 
Company’s financial advisers, 
where necessary and 
appropriate.
For financial metrics:
• nothing is payable for performance 
below a minimum level of 
performance; and
• the amount payable for threshold 
performance may vary depending on 
the metric. Typically, but not in all 
cases, up to 25% is payable for 
achieving a threshold target and this 
rises until full bonus is payable for a 
higher, more demanding target.
Non-financial metrics and personal 
targets, such as Audience Growth 
numbers, Customer/Advertisers 
Satisfaction and Employee Satisfaction/
Engagement, may also be included.
2014 additional bonus
Payout of the additional bonus 
opportunity was at the discretion of the 
Committee, which considered the 
following success factors:
• an appropriate reduction in the 
Company’s cost of capital;
• avoiding Payment In Kind interest 
accrual;
• establishing a healthy and sustainable 
balance sheet; and
• providing a solid platform for  
future growth.
See Note 1. 54 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Performance 
Share Plan
Incentivises Executive 
Directors and 
selected senior 
executives to achieve 
superior financial 
performance and 
long-term 
shareholder returns.
To facilitate share 
ownership and 
provide further 
alignment with 
shareholders.
To attract, motivate 
and retain key talent.
The Company operates a 
Performance Share Plan (PSP). 
Under this plan annual awards 
(structured as nil cost options 
or conditional awards) are 
granted. The rules of the plan 
also allow awards to be 
structured as forfeitable  
share awards.
These awards vest after three 
years subject to the 
achievement of stretching 
performance conditions 
measured over a period of 
three years and continued 
employment.
The level of grant is reviewed 
annually (subject to the PSP 
individual limit) taking into 
account overall remuneration, 
the performance of the 
Executive Director and the 
Company’s share price.
Clawback provisions apply 
which permits the Company 
to claw back vested awards in 
the event of a material 
misstatement, error in 
assessing performance 
conditions or discovery of an 
act of gross misconduct.
The value of dividends, to the 
extent they are paid, will 
accrue on vested awards 
during the vesting period.
Under the PSP, awards with a 
face value of no more than 
125% of salary (or 150% of 
salary in exceptional 
circumstances) may be made 
in any year.
PSP awards vest after three years 
subject to the satisfaction of challenging 
performance criteria including relative 
TSR and/or EPS growth.
• Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is 
measured against an appropriate 
comparator group. 25% of this part  
of the award vests at median, with 
100% vesting for upper quartile 
performance with straight-line vesting 
in between. For this part of the award, 
no vesting can occur unless the 
Committee is satisfied that the 
underlying financial performance  
of the Company has achieved an 
appropriate level of improvement.
• A portion is subject to earnings per 
share (EPS) growth targets over a 
three year period. No part of this 
award will vest unless a threshold 
level of performance is achieved.  
25% of this part of the award vests  
for threshold rising up to full vesting 
for a more demanding target.
In determining the target range for any 
financial measures that may apply, the 
Committee ensures they are challenging 
by taking into account current and 
anticipated trading conditions, the 
long-term business plan and external 
expectations.
Normally the EPS performance period 
for future awards commences from  
the start of the financial year in which 
the award is made. For TSR, the 
performance period starts from the 
date of the award.
The Committee may introduce  
other measures, or replace TSR  
and EPS, to support the long-term 
business strategy.
The Committee will consult with major 
investors before making any changes  
to measures.
See Note 2.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report (continued) 55 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
2014 Value 
Creation Plan 
(VCP)
To support the next 
phase of the 
Company’s 
turnaround strategy 
through the 
alignment of 
management and 
shareholder interests 
by incentivising 
significant share price 
growth post-
refinancing.
The VCP was approved at the 
2014 AGM. The granting of 
awards under the Plan was 
subject to the Remuneration 
Committee being satisfied a 
successful refinancing had 
taken place.
Awards may only be granted 
during one year following the 
approval of the VCP.
Awards are structured as 
premium priced options that 
vest three years following the 
completion of the refinancing.
The ‘premium’ hurdle is 18% 
above the Base Price, 
calculated as the average 
30-day share price directly 
after the completion of 
refinancing. (This was 195p, 
when recalculated to take 
account of the Company’s 
subsequent share sub-
division and consolidation, 
and the option price is 
therefore 231p.)
The value of the option on 
vesting for participants is 
dependent on the extent to 
which the average share price 
during the last 30 days of the 
three-year performance 
period exceeds the premium 
price hurdle.
The option gain will be 
crystallised on the third 
anniversary following the 
completion of the refinancing 
and the ‘gain’ will be released 
in two equal tranches, with 
half vesting on the third and 
half on the fourth anniversary, 
subject to continued 
employment.
The Committee may decide to 
satisfy the option as a share 
appreciation right by providing 
free shares that have a market 
value on vesting equal to the 
gross gain realised under the 
option on the third 
anniversary of the date of 
completion of refinancing, 
thereby reducing the number 
of shares required to satisfy 
the award.
The premium priced options 
are over a total of 7.5% of the 
shares in issue following 
completion of the refinancing, 
with the CEO receiving 40% 
and the CFO 20% respectively 
of the total allocation. Lower 
allocations were granted to 
other selected senior 
executives.
A hurdle has been applied (being the 
premium exercise price). This was set  
at 18% higher than the 30-day average 
share price directly after completion  
of refinancing.
Executives will only benefit to the extent 
this level of return has been generated 
for shareholders.
No awards will vest or awards may  
be scaled back if, in the Committee’s 
opinion, there has not been a 
commensurate improvement in the 
Company’s financial position at the end 
of the three-year performance period.
See Note 3. 56 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Ashley 
Highfield’s 
matching 
awards
To secure the 
recruitment  
of Ashley Highfield.
Under the terms of his 
contract, Ashley Highfield 
purchased Company shares 
out of his own monies prior to 
the payment of bonus in 2013 
and received a match of PSP 
awards on a 2-for-1 basis.
He may invest a portion of his 
cash bonus payable in 2014 (in 
respect of 2013 performance) 
and receive a matching award 
on a 2-for-1 basis; the value of 
matching awards is on a gross 
of tax basis.
Save for the opportunity 
described above, no further 
matching awards may be 
granted under the terms of 
his contract.
Matching awards vest after 
three years subject to the 
achievement of performance 
targets and continued 
employment. Matching 
awards will also normally only 
vest to the extent that the 
related ‘matched’ investment 
shares have been retained 
until the time of vesting.
The value of Matching Shares 
awarded in 2014 could not 
exceed 60% of Mr Highfield’s 
2013 salary (on a gross of  
tax basis).
A 2-for-1 match applies on  
the cash bonus invested. In 
aggregate, the maximum face 
value of PSP (including 
matching awards) cannot 
exceed 125% of his salary  
in any financial year.
As per PSP awards.
Share 
Ownership 
Guidelines
To align interests of 
management and 
shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer are required 
to build up shares to the value 
of 200% and 150% of salary 
respectively.
Executive Directors are 
required to retain 50% of 
shares which vest under 
executive share plans, after 
allowing for sufficient sales of 
shares to meet tax obligations, 
until the required holding has 
been achieved.
Only shares owned outright 
will count towards the 
guideline.
n/a. n/a.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report (continued) 57 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Non-
Executive 
Directors
To attract and  
retain high quality 
and experienced 
Non-Executive 
Chairman and 
Directors.
Fees are paid quarterly and a 
part may be paid in shares as 
well as cash.
The Board determines the 
fees of the Non-Executive 
Directors within the limits set 
by the Articles of Association. 
They are based upon 
recommendations from the 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
(or, in the case of the 
Chairman, based on 
recommendations from the 
Remuneration Committee and 
the Chief Executive).
The level of fees of the 
Non-Executive Directors 
reflects the time commitment 
and responsibility of their 
respective roles. Their fees are 
reviewed from time to time 
against broadly similar UK 
listed companies and 
companies of a similar size. 
Additional fees may be 
payable for the chairmanship 
of committees and for holding 
the Senior Independent 
Director position.
In exceptional circumstances, 
additional fees may be 
payable to reflect a substantial 
increase in time commitment 
of the Non-Executive 
Chairman and Directors.
Current fees are set out  
in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
None.
Notes:
¹  In terms of annual performance targets, EBITDA reflects the Company’s objective of increasing earnings and ultimately shareholder value and revenue targets incentivise top  
line growth.
²   Total Shareholder Return is an important benchmark of the success of the business and provides a strong alignment with the returns received by shareholders. The EPS measure 
ensures a focus on long-term profitability which the Committee believes is a driver of shareholder value.
³  The value of the award under the VCP is subject to a challenging share price hurdle, which has been set so as to incentivise the creation of significant shareholder value.
Annual Bonus Plan, PSP and VCP Discretions
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP and VCP according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules  
and HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation 
and administration of these plans. These include (but are not limited to) the following (albeit with the level of award restricted as set out in the policy 
table above):
• who participates in the plans;
• the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
• the size of an award and/or a payment subject to individual participation and dilution limits as approved by shareholders;
• the choice of performance measures for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan;
• discretion relating to the measurement of performance and level of vesting in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
• determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the 
appropriate treatment chosen;
• adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject 
of consultation with the Company’s shareholders. 58 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Legacy Arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current  
or former Directors, including awards made to the Chief Executive as part of the terms of his recruitment.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees
The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider Group when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.  
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary review  
for the Executive Directors. 
The annual Senior Leadership Bonus (SLB) plan operates across certain levels in the Group. For 2015, the bonus measures are identical for the 
Executive Directors and the rest of the Senior Leadership Team. Monthly and quarterly sales incentive schemes are in place to motivate direct 
advertising and newspaper sales teams, some ad-hoc local bonus plans (for junior level roles) operate across the Group and all employees are eligible 
to participate in the SAYE scheme (if offered).
Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees. This ensures that 
there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors given it is the Executive 
Directors who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence Company value creation. 
Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors
The Company’s policy results in a significant portion of remuneration received by Executive Directors being dependent on Company performance. The 
graph below illustrates 2015 reward scenarios for the Executive Directors under three performance scenarios: below Target, On-Target and Maximum. 
60%
60% 36%
32%
32%
26%
14% 38%
27%
12%
£550
£314
£520
35%
28%
£915
£1,496
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target
Chief Executive Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Maximum
Fixed Annual Bonus Long-Term Share Awards
0
500
1000
1500
2000
£’000
£864
Notes:
(i)  Minimum comprises fixed pay. Fixed pay is the sum of basic salary (as at 1 January 2015), benefits (2014 value) and 2015 pension. Fixed pay is constant across all three scenarios.
(ii)  For On-target it is assumed 50% of the 2015 maximum bonus opportunity is paid and 25% of PSP awards granted with a face value of 100% of salary vests. 
(iii)  For Maximum, it is assumed full bonus payment for 2015 is made and PSP vests in full.
(iv)  No account has been taken of any changes in the Company’s share price.
Recruitment and Promotion Policy
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director will be set in accordance with the Company’s approved policy as set out above, subject to such 
modifications as are set out below.
Salary levels for Executive Directors will be set in accordance with the Company’s remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre  
of the individual and his/her existing remuneration package. Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired 
salary positioning may be made over subsequent years subject to individual performance and development in the role. Benefits will generally be 
provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors, with relocation or other one-off expenses provided for if necessary.
The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with the Company’s approved policy detailed above. The maximum bonus potential for 
a new recruit is 120% of salary. For long-term incentives the individual PSP limit in face value terms is 125% of salary or 150% of salary in exceptional 
circumstances. Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual,  
and the point in the financial year that the individual joined the Board. 
In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be forfeited on leaving the previous 
employer), this would be provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares), timing and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting any existing 
performance criteria) of the remuneration being forfeited. Replacement share awards will only be made to the extent necessary. 
If used, they may be granted using the Company’s existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these 
schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules of the UKLA.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report (continued) 59 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms 
of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be set in line with the approved policy.
Service Contracts and Loss of Office
Ashley Highfield’s service contract is terminable by either party on 12 months’ notice. In line with the Company’s policy for new hires introduced in 
2013, David King’s contract requires six months’ notice by either party. Executive Directors’ service contracts will be available for inspection at the 
Annual General Meeting.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are terminable at will, subject to a three-month notice period. It is the Committee’s policy 
that any future Non-Executive Board appointments will be made on the same terms. A copy of the standard letter of appointment for the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors is displayed on the Company’s website in the Investor Centre section.
The contract dates and notice periods for each Executive and Non-Executive Director are as follows:
Date of Contract 
Notice period 
by Company
Notice period 
by Director
Ashley Highfield 27 July 2011 1 year 1 year
David King 16 May 2013 6 months 6 months
Ian Russell 20 March 2015 3 months 3 months
Camilla Rhodes 13 July 2012 3 months 3 months
Ralph Marshall 27 June 2014 3 months 3 months
Mark Pain 1 May 2012 3 months 3 months
Kjell Aamot 20 June 2013 3 months 3 months
Stephen Van Rooyen 22 May 2013 3 months 3 months
For Executive Directors, the Company may in its absolute discretion at any time after notice is served by either party, terminate a Directors’ contract  
by paying an amount in lieu of the notice period equivalent to basic salary and the value of contractual benefits, including pension.
Executive Directors’ contracts of employment may be terminated, at the option of the Company, by giving 12 months’ notice for Ashley Highfield and  
six months’ notice for David King. The Company may also terminate the Executive’s employment forthwith in certain circumstances including any 
serious breach of his obligations under the relevant contract of employment. The Executive Directors’ service contracts do not provide any entitlement 
to the provision of liquidated damages or any special provisions relating to a change of control. 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept up to two Non-Executive Director appointments outwith the Company provided that the Chairman’s permission 
is obtained. The Remuneration Committee decides whether any fees for such positions are retained by the Director. In addition, the Executive Directors 
are entitled to accept any positions connected with the newspaper industry or any business in which the Company holds an investment. 
Treatment of Incentives
If a participant ceases to be employed at any time before a bonus is due to be paid or is under notice of termination of employment at this time, then 
generally no bonus will be payable to that individual. If, however, the participant ceases employment, or is under notice of termination of employment, 
for a ‘good leaver’ reason, including – (i) death, (ii) injury or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of his employer, (iii) redundancy, (iv) retirement with 
the agreement of the Committee, (v) his office or employment being transferred out of the Group, or (vi) for any other reason if the Committee so 
decides, then the Committee has discretion to decide that the bonus (including any part that would have been deferred into a share award) shall 
continue to be paid to the participant after the end of the performance period, subject to a pro rata reduction. The Committee has discretion not to 
apply a pro rata reduction if it considers that to do so would be inappropriate in a particular case.
Generally, upon cessation of employment, outstanding awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan shall lapse. If, however, a participant ceases 
employment for one of the ‘good leaver’ reasons as set out above for the annual bonus plan or for any other reason if the Committee so decides, then 
the award will vest on cessation.
Generally, upon cessation of employment, outstanding awards made under the PSP or VCP shall lapse including in cases of summary dismissal.  
If, however, a participant ceases employment for one of the ‘good leaver’ reasons as set out above for the annual bonus plan (excluding retirement, 
redundancy, the sale or transfer of a business out of the Group for the VCP only) or for any other reason if the Committee so decides, then:
• For the PSP, the awards will vest on the normal vesting date, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and a pro rata reduction 
based on the period commencing on the first day of the performance period and ending on the date of cessation relative to the full performance 
period. The Committee however, retains the discretion to decide, in exceptional circumstances, that an award will instead vest on the date of 
cessation, subject to the achievement of performance conditions and a pro rata reduction. 
• For the VCP, awards will vest on the normal vesting dates and will be pro-rated based on the period from the start of the performance period to the 
date of cessation, relative to the full three-year performance period.
For both the PSP and VCP, the Committee retains the discretion not to apply a pro rata reduction if it considers that to do so would be inappropriate  
in a particular case. 
How Shareholder Views are Taken into Account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally. This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered 
as part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. 60 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Group
The Company does not actively consult with employees on Directors’ remuneration. However, the Committee reviews the remuneration policy and 
remuneration recommendations for other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider. Pay and benefits elsewhere in the 
Group are determined by senior management and approved by the Executive Management Committee. The Committee receives reports in respect of 
these reviews as part of updates in respect of remuneration across the Group. The Committee takes this into account when setting the remuneration 
policy for Executive Directors.
Unaudited Information
Implementation of Policy for 2015
Base Salaries
Base salaries for Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually by the Committee. In 2014 the review, initially scheduled for April, was delayed 
until the capital restructuring had been completed. 2014 increases were therefore deferred until July and could not be reported in last year’s report. 
The salaries reported here are therefore the result of increases for 2014 and 2015. 
Base salaries for the Executive Directors as at 4 January 2015 are £430,000 for Ashley Highfield and £275,000 for David King. 
In considering these reviews, we took into account each executive’s individual performance and contribution, salaries in comparable companies and the range 
of salary increases in the rest of the Company. In addition, in determining the new salary for the Chief Executive, the Committee took into account his strong 
performance in the role and his contribution since his appointment in 2011, his importance and experience, particularly in digital, which is vital to the delivery 
of the next stage of our strategy, the overall size and complexity of the Group and the fact his salary had not changed since his appointment in 2011. 
For the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee took into account that he had been recruited intentionally at a below-market salary: the current salary 
reflects his progress in the role, his increased experience and contribution, and the key part he played in the complex refinancing. These salaries will 
next be reviewed in 2016.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ Fees
The Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ fees were last reviewed in 2008 and have not been increased since then. The current fee levels at the 
start of 2015 are:
• Chairman’s fee of £130,000 p.a.; and
• Non-Executive Director base fee of £40,000 p.a.
Supplementary fees:
• Senior Independent Director – £7,500 p.a.;
• Audit Committee Chair – £7,500 p.a.; and
• Remuneration Committee Chair – £7,500 p.a.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees for 2015 will be payable quarterly.
The Company changed its policy in respect of the payment of fees such that future payments will be made in cash. In 2014, the Non-Executive 
Directors received 25% of their remuneration in shares and 75% in cash. 
Benefits and Pension
Benefits are provided in line with the information set out in the Policy Table.
Ashley Highfield receives, annually, a pension contribution of 25% of his base salary and is entitled to a match of any individual contributions 
up to 5% of salary.
David King receives a pension contribution of 12% of his base salary. 
Annual Bonus
For 2015, the annual bonus opportunity for Ashley Highfield is 120% of salary and for David King is 100% of salary. 
The following table lays out the performance measures that will apply for the Executive Directors along with the respective weightings (as percentages 
of salary). 
Ashley Highfield David King
Financial
EBITDA 48% 40%
Advertising revenue 36% 30%
Net debt reduction – 20%
Non-financial 
Audience engagement 12% 10%
Advertiser satisfaction 12% –
Reader satisfaction 12% –
Total 120% of salary 100% of salary
Should the minimum level target not be achieved for EBITDA, the amount payable in respect of other financial and non-financial KPIs shall be halved, 
irrespective of achievement of the relevant targets for those KPIs. 
Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration 61 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
The ratio of financial and non-financial measures has changed for the coming year: the CEO has a 70/30 mix and the CFO 90/10. The targets and 
individual objectives themselves are deemed to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed prospectively. However, the Committee will seek to 
provide retrospective disclosure of the financial and non-financial targets and performance against them in next year’s remuneration report.
Clawback provisions and deferral of bonus into shares will apply in accordance with the approved policy. 
Long-term Incentives
Performance Share Plan
Awards are expected to be made in 2015 under the Performance Share Plan to Executive Directors and will be made in accordance with limits set out in 
the Remuneration Policy. For 2015, the intention is to make an award with a face value of 100% of salary to each Director. Relative TSR and EPS growth 
metrics will apply; they are measured over three years and have equal weighting. For the TSR element, 25% of this part of the award vests at median to  
the peer group, with 100% vesting for upper quartile performance with straight line vesting in between. No vesting can occur unless the Remuneration 
Committee is satisfied that the outcome is commensurate with the underlying financial performance of the Company. The target for the EPS element had 
not been determined at the time the Report was being finalised. The Committee will set an EPS performance range that is sufficiently stretching and 
ambitious immediately before the grant of awards. The EPS targets will be set out in the stock exchange announcement following the PSP grant.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee
Camilla Rhodes has been Chair of the Committee since the 2013 AGM. The members of the Committee throughout 2014 are listed in the table below. 
All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors. No Director plays a part in any decision making directly relating to their own 
remuneration.
The members of the Committee and their year of appointment to the Committee were:
Name
Year of 
appointment
Camilla Rhodes (Chair) 2010
Mark Pain 2010
Stephen van Rooyen 2013
During 2014, the Committee met on seven occasions. At those meetings base salaries of Executive Directors were reviewed, the targets and quantum 
of annual performance related bonuses for Executive Directors were agreed, the vesting outcome of the Group’s long-term incentive schemes and the 
bonus payments in respect of 2013 were reviewed, as were awards to be granted under the Group’s VCP and the performance measures applying.
The Committee has the delegated responsibility for reviewing the Board policy on remuneration for the Executive Management Committee (which 
includes the two Executive Directors) and setting all aspects of remuneration, including the total remuneration package for all Executive Directors and 
the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee’s terms of reference set out the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and are available on the Company’s website and  
on request.
Advice to the Committee
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest (other than as a shareholder), conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships or 
day-to-day involvement in running the business. Other Directors attend meetings when invited by the Committee and the Company Secretary acts as 
Secretary to the Remuneration Committee. The Company’s Director of Human Resources also attends meetings by invitation. No Director plays a part 
in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year by New Bridge Street (NBS), a trading name of Aon plc. Neither NBS nor any other part  
of Aon plc provided other services to the Company during 2014. NBS attended two of the meetings of the Committee during the year and provided 
advice on a wide range of issues, including the design of the Value Creation Plan. Total NBS fees incurred for advising the Remuneration Committee in 
2014 were £106,000 excluding VAT. NBS also provided share plan implementation services to the Company. The terms of engagement between the 
Company and NBS are displayed on the Company’s website. NBS are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and are signatories to its 
Code of Conduct. The Committee monitors the relationship with external advisers on a regular basis and remains confident that NBS is independent 
and that no conflicts of interest exist.
Statement of Shareholder Voting at 2014 AGM
At last year’s AGM, the Remuneration Policy and 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from ordinary shareholders: 
Remuneration Policy and Report on Remuneration
Remuneration Policy 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration
Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast
For
1
3,343,238,480 88.79% 3,641,932,118 99.48%
Against 421,948,270 11.21% 18,970,564 0.52%
Abstentions
2
3,345,030 – 107,629,098 –
Total (excluding abstentions) 3,765,186,750 – 3,660,902,682 –
¹  Including discretionary.
²  Abstentions are not included in calculating percentages of votes cast for and against. 62 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Audited Information 
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director 
Name of Director
Fees/basic 
salary  
£’000
Benefits
3
 
£’000
Annual 
bonuses
1
 
£’000
Long-term 
incentives
2
 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Executive Directors
Ashley Highfield
4
2014 404 11 483 645 106 1,649
2013 400 12 80 – 100 592
David King
5
2014 255 11 268 – 31 565
2013 146 6 33 – 18 203
Non-Executive Directors
Ian Russell 2014 130 – – – – 130
2013 130 – – – – 130
Ralph Marshall 2014 40 – – – – 40
2013 40 – – – – 40
Mark Pain 2014 55 – – – – 55
2013 55 – – – – 55
Camilla Rhodes 2014 47 – – – – 47
2013 45 – – – – 45
Kjell Aamot 2014 40 – – – – 40
2013 40 – – – – 40
Stephen van Rooyen 2014 40 – – – – 40
2013 23 – – – – 23
Notes:
¹  Annual Bonus includes cash and deferred elements. The deferred element is not subject to performance conditions and vests after three years. The 2014 figures, includes a one-off 
further opportunity payable to the Executive Directors for meeting the strategic performance measure outlined in the ‘2014 Annual Bonus Outturn’ table below.
²  Ashley Highfield was granted a PSP award on joining the Company in November 2011. Vesting was subject to two conditions. The earnings per share (EPS) condition (half the award) 
was not met and this part of the award lapsed in full. The other half was subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) condition, measured over three years compared to a group of 
companies in our sector. Over this period the Company’s TSR of 171% was sufficient to rank the Company in the upper quartile of the peer group and this part of the award vested in 
full. 363,244 shares vested on 11 November 2014. On that date the share price (adjusted for the subsequent consolidation) was 177.5p. The single figure value for 2014 reflects an 
uplift from strong share price performance over the vesting period.
³  Benefits for the Executive Directors include healthcare insurance, car allowance, telephone and life assurance. 
⁴  Ashley Highfield’s 2014 salary review was delayed until the completion of the refinancing. His salary was increased to £408,000 with effect from 1 July 2014. 
⁵  David King commenced employment on 16 May 2013 and assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2013. Base salary, benefits and pension reported for 2013 are  
the period from 1 June 2013 to 31 December 2013. His bonus relates to the period from the commencement of employment. David King’s 2014 salary review was delayed until  
the completion of the refinancing. His salary was increased to £260,000 with effect from 1 July 2014. The 4% increase reflects his strong performance in the role since joining the 
Company and his initial salary being positioned purposefully at below mid-market levels.
2014 Annual Bonus Outturn
The 2014 Annual Bonus Plan for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer was based upon the following measures. If the specified EBITDA 
minimum is not reached, the bonus opportunity for all other measures is halved.
% of salary
Ashley 
Highfield
David  
King
EBITDA 45% 40%
Digital revenue 15% 15%
Audience growth 45% 40%
Advertiser satisfaction 7.5% 2.5%
Staff satisfaction 7.5% 2.5%
Strategic 60% 50%
Maximum bonus potential 180% 150%
Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration (continued) 63 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Bonus due
Measure Result Outcome
Ashley 
Highfield David King
EBITDA £61.0 million 95% of target. The EBITDA minimum of £60.7 million was achieved 7.5% 7.1%
Digital Revenue £29.1 million 94% of target. Threshold was set at £28.6 million. 6% 6%
Audience Growth 16 million + 110% of target; maximum for bonus was 15.7 million online views/month. 45% 40%
Advertiser satisfaction 59% Target was 60%. 0% 0%
Staff satisfaction No 
improvement
Target was 10% improvement. 0% 0%
Strategic Met in full The Committee determined that this element of the 2014 bonus was met in full.  
In making its decision, it received input from its financial advisers. The following factors 
were considered:
• Successfully raising a high yield bond of £220.5 million and obtaining the target credit 
rating. Also receiving approval from shareholders and raising £140 million of equity. 
Together, ensuring a more uncertain outcome was avoided.
• Successful negotiation of a cost-effective covenant reset of existing debt facilities  
until maturity in September 2015.
• The Company’s cost of capital was significantly reduced. The interest rate reduced 
from 11.7% to 8.625%.
• Savings of nearly £19 million in accruing Payment-In-Kind payments were made  
by completing the refinancing before December 2014.
• A successful negotiation with the Pension Trustees to revise the deficit funding 
scheme including reducing the initial contributions under the scheme was achieved. 
In addition, the Trustees agreed to subordinate the deficit to the incoming senior 
debt structure.
• Successful management of a complex debt and equity process, ensuring that the 
final transaction was an interconditional and fully underwritten structure. In addition, 
the transaction was completed within a very tight timeframe given the number  
of different work-streams requiring attention.
• Profits in line with expectations were delivered despite the distraction of the 
refinancing process in the first half of the year.
The Committee strongly believes that the Company has avoided an uncertain future  
and now has a solid platform for future growth under a stable and talented senior 
leadership team. 60% 50%
Total 118.5% 103.1%
Accordingly, the following bonus payments will be made in respect of 2014 performance:
Ashley Highfield David King
Cash Deferred Cash Deferred
£241,740 £241,740 £134,030 £134,030
Long-term Incentives Vesting in Relation to Performance Ending in 2014
Awards made to Ashley Highfield in 2011 under the Performance Share Plan were subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions over three years, 
with 50% of the total award based on each. The Earnings Per Share condition was not met and no element of this part of the award vested. The other 
half was subject to a TSR condition, measured over three years compared to a group of companies in the media sector (excluding FTSE 100 
companies). Over this period, the Company’s TSR of 171% was sufficient to rank the Company in the upper quartile of the peer group (a ranking of 
third against the 18 other peers) and this part of the award vested in full. Accordingly, half of the 2011 award vested, namely 363,244 shares vested 
(post consolidation). The share price on the date of vesting was 3.55p (equivalent to 177.5p post consolidation). 64 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Share Awards Granted in 2014
Scheme
Basis of  
award  
granted
Shares 
Awarded
1
Face value  
of award
2
Maximum 
vesting  
(% of face 
value)
Percentage vesting for  
threshold performance
Vesting  
period
Ashley Highfield VCP 40%  
of total  
for Plan
3,176,315 £6.19m n/a No awards will vest unless 
the premium price of 231p 
is met – an 18% premium 
to award price
After three years, subject 
to share price and 
continued employment, 
with 50% vesting at that 
time and 50% after a 
further year
David King VCP 20%  
of total  
for Plan
1,588,157 £3.1m n/a No awards will vest unless 
the premium price of 231p 
is met – an 18% premium 
to award price
After three years, subject 
to share price and 
continued employment, 
with 50% vesting at that 
time and 50% after a 
further year
Ashley Highfield Deferred 
Share 
Bonus 
Plan
3
50%  
of 2013 
annual 
bonus
20,565
3
40,000 n/a n/a. Deferred bonus, 
subject to continued 
employment
Awards will normally vest 
to participants on the third 
anniversary of the payment 
of the cash element of the 
relevant bonus subject to 
continued employment
David King Deferred 
Share 
Bonus 
Plan
3
50%  
of 2013 
annual 
bonus
8,569
3
16,667 n/a n/a. Deferred bonus, 
subject to continued 
employment
Awards will normally vest 
to participants on the third 
anniversary of the payment 
of the cash element of the 
relevant bonus subject to 
continued employment
Ashley Highfield PSP Matching 
shares at 
2:1 based 
on 50% of 
2013 
bonus
50,078 80,000 100% 25% under TSR element
25% under EPS element
Performance measured 
over three years. Awards 
will vest on the third 
anniversary of grant, 
subject to performance 
and continued 
employment
¹  Where applicable, share award numbers have been rebased following the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary share capital on 13 November 2014. For DSBP awards, numbers of 
options are based on a share price of 194.5p being the share price on 15 July (the date of payment of the cash element of bonus) (adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital on 13 November 2014).
²  Face value of VCP awards based on a share price of 195p being the share price on 22 September (the date of grant) (adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital on 13 November 2014). 
³  Grants of awards under the DSBP remain outstanding (see note under vesting period) and will be made as soon as possible in 2015 at the values shown in the table above.
The VCP awards were made in the form of premium priced options as described in the Remuneration Policy report. The CEO and CFO were 
respectively granted awards over approximately 3% and 1.5% of the share capital. The ‘premium’ hurdle is 18% above the Base Price, calculated as the 
average 30-day share price directly after the completion of refinancing. This was 3.9127p (195.6p when recalculated to take account of the Company’s 
subsequent share sub-division and consolidation), and the option price is therefore 231p. Awards which vest will represent the value of any gain over 
the premium hurdle. Executives will only benefit to the extent this level of return has been generated for shareholders.
The PSP awards granted to Ashley Highfield were granted on 12 December 2014 in the form of nil cost options and are subject to two equally weighted 
performance conditions, relative TSR and EPS growth. These ‘matching’ awards were an entitlement under the terms of his service agreement. These 
are the final matching awards that will be granted to him under the terms of his contract.
The relative TSR performance condition measures the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator group comprising the FTSE All-Share  
Media companies (excluding any FTSE 100 companies) as at the date of grant. For a ranking below median, none of this element of the award will vest. 
For a median ranking 25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above 
upper quartile.
The EPS range for the award is based on EPS growth over the three financial years: 2014 to 2017. 25% of this part of the award vests for EPS growth of 
0% p.a. and full vesting for achieving 6% p.a. or better, using 2013 as the base year. The Committee is satisfied that the above target range is sufficiently 
stretching in light of internal and external expectations.
Deferred share bonus plan awards are granted in the form of nil cost options.
Outstanding Share Awards
The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors’ outstanding awards under the Performance Share Plan (PSP), Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(DSBP) and the Value Creation Plan (VCP), including those awarded made in 2014 and shown in the previous table. The number of shares and the 
share prices shown have been adjusted, where applicable, for the Rights Issue and share consolidation that took place in 2014. 
Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration (continued) 65 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Name of Director Type of award
1
Date of award
Rebased 
share price at 
grant (pence)
2
Number  
of shares at  
29 December 
2013
3
Lapsed during 
the period
Exercised 
during the 
period
Number of 
shares at  
3 January 
2015
4
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
Ashley Highfield PSP (recruitment award) 11/11/11 68.9p 726,488 363,244 – 363,244 11/11/14 10/11/15
Ashley Highfield PSP 14/09/12 79.13p 482,506 – – 482,506 14/09/15 13/09/16
Ashley Highfield DSBP 06/06/12 92.1p 14,377 – – 14,377 15/03/15 14/03/17
Ashley Highfield PSP (matching shares) 21/12/12 208.99p 12,488 – – 12,488 21/12/15 20/12/16
Ashley Highfield DSPB 22/05/13 225.14p 42,196 – – 42,196 15/04/16 14/04/18
Ashley Highfield PSP 05/06/13 250.79p 138,759 – – 138,759 05/06/16 04/06/17
David King PSP 05/06/13 250.79p 69,379 – – 69,379 05/06/16 04/06/17
Ashley Highfield VCP 22/09/14 231p – – – 3,176,315 23/06/17 23/06/18
David King VCP 22/09/14 231p – – – 1,588,315 23/06/17 23/06/18
Ashley Highfield PSP (matching shares) 12/12/14 159.75p – – – 50,078 12/12/17 11/12/18
Ashley Highfield DSBP
5
15/07/14 194.5p – – – 20,565 15/07/17 14/07/19
David King DSBP
5
15/07/14 194.5p – – – 8,569 15/07/17 14/07/19
¹  Outstanding awards under the Performance Share Plan are subject to three-year EPS and TSR conditions, each with equal weighting.
²  Share prices at grant have been recalculated to take account of the rights issue and share capital consolidation undertaken by the Company during 2014.
³  Number of shares as at 29 December 2013 have been recalculated to take account of the rights issue and share capital consolidation undertaken by the Company during 2014.
⁴  Number of shares as at 3 January 2015 are figures for outstanding awards after adjustments to take account of the rights issue and the share capital consolidation.
⁵  Awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan are in respect of 50% of 2013 annual bonus, deferred into shares; share grants were not made in 2014 because of prolonged restricted 
period, but will be made as soon as possible in 2015 at the values shown in the table above. Numbers of options are based on a share price of 194.5p being the share price on 15 July 
(the date of payment of the cash element of bonus) (adjusted for the consolidation of the Company’s ordinary share capital on 13 November 2014).
Table of Directors’ Share Interests
The share interests of each person who was a Director of the Company during the year as at 3 January 2015 (together with interests held by his or her 
connected persons) were as follows:
Legally 
owned
1
PSP awards
Deferred Share Bonus 
awards
2
SAYE VCP
Total legally 
owned at  
3 January 
2015
% of salary 
held under 
Shareholding 
Policy
 3
28 December 
2013 Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested
3 January 
2015
% salary at 
3 January 
2015
Executive Directors
Ashley Highfield 1,016,270 683,831 363,244 77,138 – 4,703 – 3,176,315 – 152,847 59.0%
David King – 69,379 – 8,569 – – – 1,588,315 – 11,000 6.64%
Non-Executive Directors
Ian Russell 4,161,040 – – – – – – – – 248,902 n/a
Ralph Marshall 738,067 – – – – – – – – 39,837 n/a
Mark Pain 695,318 – – – – – – – – 34,148 n/a
Camilla Rhodes 470,410 – – – – – – – – 22,747 n/a
Kjell Aamot 667,288 – – – – – – – – 59,725 n/a
Stephen van Rooyen 47,154 – – – – – – – – 9,768 n/a
¹  Figures for shares legally owned as at 28 December 2013 represent actual holdings prior to the rights issue and share capital consolidation. Directors’ made individual choices regarding 
their shareholding during the rights issue and these are explained in the prospectus published by the Company on 9 May 2014 and subsequent announcements. As a consequence it is not 
possible to “rebase” their holdings as at 28 December 2013 to demonstrate the impact of the rights issue and share capital consolidation on their individual holdings.
²  Figures for Deferred Share Bonus Plan Awards include awards referred to in note 5 of the table of Outstanding Share Awards on page 65. Grants of awards under the Deferred Bonus 
Plan for 2013 bonus remain outstanding and will be made as soon as possible in 2015.
³  Holdings expressed as % of salary based on share price at 02.01.2015 of 166p.
There has been no change in shareholding since the end of the year up to the date of this report. No Director sold any shares during 2014.
Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of shares which vest under executive share plans, after allowing for sufficient sales of shares  
to meet tax liabilities, until a holding to the value of 200% and 150% of salary has been achieved by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer respectively.
Payments for Loss of Office
There were no payments for loss of office made to Executive Directors in 2014. 
Payments to Past Directors
Mr Cammiade ceased employment with the Company on 31 March 2013. Payments for loss of office he received are provided in last year’s Report  
on Directors’ Remuneration. Mr Cammiade was treated as a good leaver for the Company’s share schemes with awards subject to performance and 
pro-rating where applicable. 970,473 awards held by Mr Cammiade under the Company’s Performance Share Plan made in 2011 vested. Mr Murray 
ceased employment with the Company on 31 May 2013. Payments for loss of office he received are provided in last year’s Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration. Mr Murray was treated as a good leaver for the Company’s share schemes with awards subject to performance and pro-rating where 
applicable. 833,697 awards held by Mr Murray under the Company’s Performance Share Plan made in 2011 vested. Figures quoted for awards vesting 
to Mr Cammiade and Mr Murray include adjustments for the rights issue, but not the share capital consolidation. Post consolidation these awards 
would have represented 19,409 and 16,673 awards respectively. 66 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Unaudited Information
Change in Remuneration of the Chief Executive
This table shows the change in value of salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer and other employees from 2013 to 2014.
Base salary
% change
Taxable 
benefits 
% change
Bonus 
% change
CEO 2% 0% 604%
Salaried employees 2% 0% 183%
For comparison purposes, salaried employees include all those, excluding sales employees, who are eligible for an annual performance bonus.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on employee pay in 2014 compared to 2013. 
2014  
£m
2013  
£m % change
Dividends – – –
Employee remuneration costs 108 131 (18%)
*
* The main reason for the fall in employee spend is due to a fall in headcount and a reduction in redundancy costs.
 
Total Shareholder Return Chart and Chief Executive Officer’s Single Figure Remuneration History
The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with that of the performance of the FTSE Small Cap and the FTSE All Share Media 
sector. As a member of both indices, the Committee believes these are relevant to compare the Company’s performance against.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
FTSE All Share Media
FTSE Small Companies
Johnston Press
2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2012
The six-year single figure of remuneration history for the Chief Executive is shown in the table below. In line with reporting requirements, this table will 
grow to a ten-year history:
Financial year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
2
Single figure remuneration (£’000) Ashley Highfield – – 115.0 702 592 1,649
John Fry
1
696.5 705.0 593.5 – – –
Annual bonus outcome Ashley Highfield – – 32.5% 39.6% 16.7% 65.5%
(% of maximum bonus) John Fry 53.3% 58.4% 36.4% – – –
LTIP vesting outcome Ashley Highfield – – – – – 50%
(% of maximum) John Fry – – – – – –
¹  John Fry, the previous Chief Executive, stepped down as Director and CEO on 31 October 2011 and Ashley Highfield commenced employment on 1 November 2011.
²  The higher single figure value for 2014 reflects the first vesting opportunity for Mr Highfield under the PSP. As disclosed earlier, 50% of the awards vested and the figure reflects  
an uplift from strong share price performance (171% TSR) over the vesting period.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Camilla Rhodes
Chair, Remuneration Committee
Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
This graph compares the TSR performance of Johnston Press PLC, assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR performance of the FTSE Small Cap over the period  
31 December 2008 to 3 January 2015. The other points plotted show the TSR performance at intervening financial year-ends. 67 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Johnston Press plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in Scotland with the registered number 15382. Johnston Press plc’s 
registered office is Orchard Brae House, 30 Queensferry Road, Edinburgh, EH4 2HS. 
The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 3 January 2015. References to ‘Johnston Press’, the ‘Group’, and the 
‘Company’, ‘we’ or ‘our’ are to Johnston Press plc or to Johnston Press and its subsidiary companies where appropriate.
Pages 39 to 71, inclusive, of this Annual Report comprise the Directors’ report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with relevant 
company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 34 to the financial statements. An indication of likely developments in 
the business of the Company and details of research and development activities are included in the Strategic Report.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. By 
their nature, these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in 
the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by those 
forward-looking statements. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements are reasonable as they can be affected by a wide range 
of variables. The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and 
Accounts and will not be updated during the year. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Dividends
No interim dividend was paid and the Directors recommend no final dividend for the period. The 13.75% preference dividend was not paid in either 
June 2014 or December 2014.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company (AGM) in 2014 a special resolution was passed to approve a reduction of the Company’s share 
premium account by such an amount to eliminate the accumulated deficit of approximately £133 million on the Company’s Income Statement and 
create distributable reserves for the Company going forward (the “Reduction”) was approved by shareholders. The Reduction will also need to be 
approved by the Court of Session in Scotland and the Company is in the process of seeking that approval. The Company is in the process of 
responding to issues raised by the Reporter appointed by the Court with a view to subsequently obtaining court approval.
Creating distributable reserves in this way will give the Company greater flexibility going forward and will allow it, amongst other things, to pay dividends 
to holders of its ordinary shares (subject to the provision of its borrowings facilities) as well as lawfully to holders of the Preference Shares (which it is 
required to do in June and December every year under its Articles of Association). It will also enable the Company to be able to fund the purchase of 
shares by the Company’s Employee Share Trust to settle outstanding awards under the Company’s Employee Share Plans.
Share Capital and Capital Structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the period are shown in Note 27. 
The Company’s issued ordinary share capital was 105,877,777 shares at 3 January 2015. During the period, as part of its capital refinancing plan completed 
on 23 June 2014, the Company undertook (a) a placing of 13,676,149 new ordinary shares and 83,363,448 existing shares; (b) a rights issue (on a 6.52:1 
basis) of 4,589,637,232 new ordinary shares which also involved the sub-division of each existing ordinary share of 10 pence into a new ordinary share of 
1 penny and one deferred share of 9 pence. On 24 October 2014 the company announced a sub-division and consolidation of its ordinary share capital 
which consisted of: (i) a sub-division of each existing ordinary share of one penny into one intermediate ordinary share of 1/50 pence each and one 
second class deferred share of 49/50 pence each and (ii) immediately thereafter a consolidation of every 50 intermediate ordinary shares of 1/50 pence 
into new ordinary shares of one penny each. The share capital reorganisation was completed on 13 November 2014. As part of the refinancing completed 
on 28 August 2009, the Company issued warrants over 5.0% of its issued share capital to the Group’s lenders, exercisable at any time over the five-year 
period ending 27 August 2014 (the “First Issue Warrants”). As part of the refinancing completed on 24 April 2012 (i) the exercise period for the First Issue 
Warrants was extended to 30 September 2017 (the “Warrant Expiry Date”), (ii) the Company issued further warrants over just under 2.5% of its issued 
share capital to the Group’s lenders at that time (the “Second Issue Warrants”) and (iii) the Company undertook that on or before 30 September 2012, and 
subject to receiving all necessary shareholder approvals, authorisations and powers, it would issue further warrants over just under an additional 5.0% of 
its issued share capital as at 23 April 2012 to the Group’s lenders at that time (the “Third Issue Warrants”). The Third Issue Warrants were subsequently 
issued on 25 September 2012. Each of the First Issue Warrants, Second Issue Warrants and Third Issue Warrants (together the “Warrants”) were adjusted 
in 2014 in accordance with their terms to take account of the capital refinancing plan and share capital re-organisation. Each Warrant comprises the right 
to subscribe for 0.15338 ordinary shares at a price of 197.45 pence per ordinary share at any time prior to the Warrant Expiry Date. During the period 
4,833,738 Warrants were exercised resulting in the issue of 4,833,738 ordinary shares. Both the capital refinancing plan and capital reorganisation 
referred to at (a), (b) and (c) above constituted Adjustment Events under the terms of the relevant Warrant Instruments. At the balance sheet date 
30,359,979 warrants were outstanding which, in aggregate, equates to a right to subscribe for 4,656,598 ordinary shares. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. The redeemable cumulative preference shares carry 13.75% interest but do not carry voting rights other than when dividends payable in respect  
of such shares are in arrears. The percentage of the issued nominal value of the ordinary shares is 0.91% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles 
of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. With regard to the appointment  
and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the United Kingdom Corporate Governance Code issued by  
the Financial Reporting Council, the Companies Acts and related legislation. The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The powers of Directors are described in the Articles of Association and in a schedule of matters reserved for approval of the Board, 
which are summarised in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 46.
Directors’ Report 68 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Substantial Shareholdings
So far as the Directors are aware the only holders of 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the Company and any other major shareholders, 
other than Directors, as at the date of this report are as follows:
% Holding
Ordinary 
shares of 1p 
each number
PanOcean Management Ltd 10.63 11,254,934
Orbis Investment Management Ltd 9.02 9,548,856
Schroder Investment Mgt 7.35 7,779,832
BlackRock Investment Mgt 6.63 7,015,995
Artemis Investment Management LLP 5.63 5,956,655
River & Mercantile Asset Mgt 5.45 5,768,394
Standard Life Investments 4.03 4,263,913
Tindle Newspapers Limited / Sir Ray Tindle 3.79 4,008,761
Deutsche Bank 3.22 3,410,224
All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since 3 January 2015 can be found at our corporate website:  
www.johnstonpress.co.uk/investors.
Directors and their Interests
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, each Director is subject to retirement every three years and to election at the first Annual General 
Meeting after their appointment. In 2014, all the Directors who wished to continue in office offered themselves for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting. All Directors who wish to continue in office will offer themselves for re-election in 2015. As a consequence, Ian Russell, Ashley Highfield, David 
King, Mark Pain, Kjell Aamot, Ralph Marshall, Camilla Rhodes and Stephen van Rooyen will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at 3 January 2015 had the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
Ordinary shares of 1p each 
% of  
share  
capital
3 January 
2015
Ian Russell 0.24 248,902
Ashley Highfield 0.14 152,847
David King 0.01 11,000
Ralph Marshall 0.04 39,837
Mark Pain 0.03 34,148
Camilla Rhodes 0.02 22,746
Kjell Aamot 0.06 59,724
Stephen van Rooyen 0.01 9,767
In addition to the shareholdings shown above, which are all held beneficially, and the share options as shown on page 65, Ashley Highfield and David 
King held interests in 475,816 (2013: 12,707,321 (not rebased for share capital consolidation)) shares at 3 January 2015 by virtue of their status as 
potential beneficiaries of the Johnston Press plc Employee Share Trust.
Since 3 January 2015, no Director has purchased shares through the Share Incentive Plan.
No Director had any material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
Directors’ Liability 
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), the Company has insurance cover for the Directors against liabilities in relation to the Group.
 
Employee Involvement
It is the policy of the Group to encourage and develop all members of staff to realise their maximum potential. Wherever possible, vacancies are  
filled from within the Group and adequate opportunities for internal promotion are created. The Board is committed to a systematic training policy  
and the Company has a comprehensive training and development programme creating the opportunity for employees to maintain and improve  
their performance and to develop their potential to a maximum level of attainment. In this way, staff will make their best possible contribution to  
the organisation’s success. The Group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair 
discrimination on the grounds of race, age, nationality, religion, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender or gender reassignment, marital 
status or disability. It is also the policy of the Group, where possible, to give sympathetic consideration to disabled persons in their application for 
employment with the Group and to protect the interests of existing members of the staff who are disabled.
Directors’ Report (continued) 69 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Going Concern 
A full description of the Group’s business activities, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and borrowing position, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Report, particularly the Financial Review on pages 26 
to 32 and in the notes to the financial statements on page 81. 
Financing Policy and Derivatives
The Group’s policies are set out in Notes 21 to 23 and Note 33. These also include details of financial instruments and derivatives.
Change of Control
In the event of a change of control the Revolving Credit Facility with various banks will be cancelled in full and all outstanding loans will become 
immediately due and payable. In addition, holders of Senior Secured Notes due 2019 issued pursuant to the Notes Indenture will have the right to 
require the Group to repurchase all or any part of the Notes issued. Group’s lenders have the option to declare all amounts outstanding repayable  
on demand.
Environmental Policy
The Board acknowledges that environmental protection is one of the Group’s business responsibilities. It aims for a continuous improvement in the 
Group’s environmental performance and to comply with all relevant regulations. A documented environmental policy to monitor performance and  
to take action where appropriate is in force.
Political Contributions
There were no political donations made and no contributions made to non-EU political organisations.
Close Company Status
So far as the Directors are aware the Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Electronic Voting 
The Company has made provision for shareholders to vote electronically on the Resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting and full 
instructions are included on the Form of Proxy, issued to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Special Business 
It is intended that five resolutions (resolutions 13 to 17) will be proposed as are set out under special business in the notice of this year’s Annual 
General Meeting. The first two of these resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and the others as special resolutions. The full text of each 
resolution will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be distributed to shareholders shortly.
Resolution 13 is to renew authority under The Johnston Press Performance Share Plan 2006 (the “Plan”) and make certain amendments to it. The Plan 
was originally approved by the Company’s shareholders on 28 April 2006 and is due to expire on 28 April 2016. The Company is seeking shareholder 
authority to renew the Plan for an additional four years to enable the Company to continue to operate the Plan and grant awards under it until 
28 April 2020. 
In order to comply with institutional investor and corporate governance best practice, the Company is also seeking shareholder approval to amend the 
dividend equivalent provision such that any dividend equivalent payment will be calculated by reference to dividend record dates occurring between 
the date of grant of an award and the date of vesting of an award rather than by reference to dividend record dates occurring during the relevant 
performance period. The Company is also seeking shareholder approval to extend the exercise period within which awards that are structured as 
options may be exercised, from 12 months following vesting to the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The purpose of the next resolution (Resolution 14) is to renew the Directors’ authority to allot shares in the Company. Paragraph (i) of Resolution 14 
seeks authority to allot shares, and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal 
amount representing approximately 33.33% of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company. The second part of Resolution 14 will also 
allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph (i) of this resolution, ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount representing approximately 66.67 per cent of the Company’s 
existing ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2015. The Directors anticipate using this power in connection with employee share schemes or on 
conversion of existing warrants, and the authority, if approved, will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2016.
The third resolution, Resolution 15 (which is the first of the three special resolutions), relates to the power given to the Directors to allot equity 
securities for cash without the statutory pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) applying. In accordance with best practice 
guidelines, this authority is limited to allotments representing in total up to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share capital and to allotments in 
connection with a rights issue. Your Directors will have due regard to institutional guidelines in relation to any exercise of this power, in particular the 
requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any non-pre-emptive cash issue pursuant to this authority which exceeds 7.5% 
of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling three year period. This power, which accords with normal practice, currently expires on the date of 
this year’s Annual General Meeting. The purpose of the resolution is to renew this power for a further year. 70 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Resolution 16 will, if passed, give authority for the Company to make purchases of its own ordinary shares in the market. The Directors have no 
immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only if they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and that  
an improvement in earnings per share would result. This Resolution specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased 
(representing approximately 10% of the Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital) and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may 
be bought.
Resolution 17 is to permit the Company to call general meetings (other than Annual General Meetings) on not less than 14 days’ notice as permitted by 
the Act. The Directors believe that having authority to do so may, in some circumstances, assist with the efficient discharge of the Company’s business. 
The Company intends to continue to provide as much notice as practicable of general meetings and would normally use this authority only where it 
would be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP, the auditor of the Company, have expressed their willingness to continue in office. Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
resolutions to re-appoint them as the Company auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM. 
Registered Ofﬁce
Orchard Brae House
30 Queensferry Road
Edinburgh 
EH4 2HS
Company Registration Number
SC015382
By order of the Board by:
Peter McCall
Company Secretary
25 March 2015
Directors’ Report (continued) 71 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Group and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue 
in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s and the Group’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial and corporate governance information included on the Company’s 
website (www.johnstonpress.co.uk). Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each Director in office at the date the Directors’ report is approved, confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
2. the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and 
3. the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board:
 
 
Ashley Highfield  David King
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
25 March 2015  25 March 2015
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 72 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Opinion on financial
statements of
Johnston Press plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 3 January 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the 53 week period then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Financial Position, the Group Cash Flow Statement, 
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 
to 44. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial 
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement contained on page 32 that 
the group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a 
guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Johnston Press plc 73 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Our assessment of risks of
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect  
on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Carrying value of publishing titles
The directors’ assessment of the value of 
publishing titles involves making assumptions 
about future revenue growth, cash generation 
and the applicable discount rate.
There are inherent uncertainties in the 
modelling of future cash flows which requires 
management to exercise judgement. 
Note 15 of the financial statements include 
details of the judgements made.
We challenged the key assumptions used in the directors’ impairment model for the publishing titles 
by focusing on the assumptions regarding future print advertising decline rates and future digital 
advertising growth rates. We determined whether the model was consistent with Board approval plans 
and we compared these rates to those of independent market analysts and also to recent historic 
experience. We also tested the integrity of the model.
We evaluated the discount rate used in determining the present values by reference to our internal 
valuation expert’s consideration of an appropriate market rate.
We assessed management’s continuing rationale for identification of the cash-generating units and 
challenged whether the logic behind this remains appropriate and also the appropriateness of the 
indefinite useful life assumption. 
We then evaluated the Group’s disclosures in Note 3 and 15 that convey the principal risks inherent in 
the valuation of the Group’s publishing titles.
Carrying value of the print presses 
There has been continuing decline in printed 
newspaper circulation and management 
considered this to be a relevant impairment 
indicator. Hence management carried out an 
impairment review to evaluate the carrying 
value of the presses.
There are inherent uncertainties in the 
modelling of future cash flows which require 
the exercise of management judgement 
which is detailed in Note 16 to the 
financial statements. 
We adopted an approach similar to that of the publishing titles whereby we have challenged the key 
assumptions in the model.
We have considered the print volume assumptions and the projected cashflows used in the model by 
reference to historic trends, Board approved forecasts and external data where available.
We have considered the appropriateness of the discount rate which is consistent with that used in the 
publishing titles and assessed various sensitivities derived by flexing the key assumptions.
We have also considered whether the disclosures in Note 3 and 16 appropriately convey the principal 
risks inherent in the valuation of the Group’s print presses.
Accounting for retirement benefit 
obligations
The net pension deficit on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet is £90.0 million. There is 
judgement involved in the valuation of the 
retirement benefit obligations, particularly in 
relation to determining the assumptions 
underlying the valuation of liabilities of 
the scheme. 
We evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the 
Group’s pension commitments prepared by the Group’s actuary by using our internal actuarial 
experts. Those assumptions include judgements such as discount rates, mortality rates, price inflation 
and rate of pension and salary increases. We have also considered the appropriateness and the 
calculation of the additional defined benefit obligation under the minimum funding requirement 
guidance of IFRIC 14.
This evaluation included benchmarking the assumptions against a relevant comparator group. We also 
analysed third party fund manager reports supporting the carrying value of the assets at 3 January 2015.
Classification of exceptional items
The disclosure of exceptional items in the 
Income Statement requires management to 
exercise judgement as to which items of 
revenue or expense should be disclosed 
separately on the face of the Income 
Statement and how those items are 
described elsewhere in the financial 
statements or in the Strategic Report.
We have challenged the appropriateness of the classification of exceptional items. We have examined 
each of the items presented on the face of the income statement and described in note 6.
We assessed the appropriateness of the separate disclosure in the context of IAS 1 and recent FRC 
guidance. We also considered whether there was a consistent application of policy period on period 
and how the presentation adopted by the directors impacted their judgement as to the strategic 
report and financial statements being fair, balanced and understandable.
Last year our report included one other risk which was not included in our report this year. During the year the directors successfully refinanced the 
Group and we no longer consider going concern to be one of the key significant risks.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 48.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an 
opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, 
and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 74 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Johnston Press plc (continued)
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it 
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or 
influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.05 million (2013: £1.00 million) which is below 5%  
of underlying pre-tax profit (2013: 7.5%) and below 1% of equity (2013: 1%). We have changed the 
percentage applied following emerging market practice and changing investor expectations. The figure 
was determined based on underlying pre-tax profit given the significant fluctuation in the level of 
exceptional items year-on-year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in 
excess of £21,000 (2013: £22,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, 
including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based 
on that assessment, our audit incorporated all trading businesses as well as the ultimate 
parent company. 
All our work was performed at a statutory level which includes all of the Group’s assets, revenue and 
profit before tax. Our audit work for the statutory audits was executed at levels of materiality applicable 
to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
All of our audit work was performed by one team, with no use of component auditors, and was led by 
the Senior Statutory Auditor.
Opinion on other matters
prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received  
and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate  
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of 
directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the company’s compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information  
in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report 
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 75 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Respective responsibilities
of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls 
and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent 
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit
of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Bell CA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
25 March 2015 76 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Income Statement 
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015
53 weeks to 3 January 2015
Restated
1, 2
 
52 weeks to 28 December 2013
Notes
Before 
exceptional
 items 
£’000
Exceptional
items
3
 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Before 
exceptional
 items 
£’000
Exceptional 
items
3
 
£’000
Total
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 268,823 – 268,823 279,978 10,000 289,978
Cost of sales (151,759) – (151,759) (164,134) – (164,134)
Gross profit 117,064 – 117,064 115,844 10,000 125,844
Operating expenses 5 (61,612) (20,204) (81,816) (62,025) (38,704) (100,729)
Impairment and write downs 5 – (24,535) (24,535) – (270,793) (270,793)
Total operating expenses (61,612) (44,739) (106,351) (62,025) (309,497) (371,522)
Operating profit/(loss) 7 55,452 (44,739) 10,713 53,819 (299,497) (245,678)
Financing
Investment income 9 2,209 – 2,209 393 – 393
Net finance expense on pension liabilities/assets
1
10a (3,330) – (3,330) (5,446) – (5,446)
Change in fair value of borrowings 10b 5,063 – 5,063 – – –
Change in fair value of hedges 10b (1,267) – (1,267) (1,691) – (1,691)
Retranslation of USD debt 10b 2,398 – 2,398 1,749 – 1,749
Retranslation of Euro debt 10b 531 – 531 (235) – (235)
Finance costs 10c (31,187) (9,046) (40,233) (39,808) (724) (40,532)
Total net financing costs (25,583) (9,046) (34,629) (45,038) (724) (45,762)
Share of results of associates 18 – – – 2 – 2
Profit/(loss) before tax 29,869 (53,785) (23,916) 8,783 (300,221) (291,438) 
Tax 11 (2,847) 11,427 8,580 4,359 71,367 75,726
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 27,022 (42,358) (15,336) 13,142 (228,854) (215,712) 
Net profit/(loss) from discontinued operations
2
203 33 236 1,113 (999)  114 
Consolidated profit/(loss) for the period 27,225 (42,325) (15,100) 14,255 (229,853) (215,598) 
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  Comparative income statement information has been restated to show the Republic of Ireland business as a discontinued operation due to its disposal on 1 April 2014.
³  Items which are deemed to be exceptional by virtue of their nature or size. Refer to Note 6 for further details.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended 
28 December 2013.
53 weeks to 3 January 2015
Restated
1, 2
 
52 weeks to 28 December 2013
Notes
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items Total
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items Total
From continuing and discontinued operations
Earnings per share (p)
Earnings (£m) 14 27.1 (42.3) (15.2) 14.1 (229.9) (215.8)
Weighted average number of shares (m) 14 3,520.0 3,520.0 3,520.0 237.8 237.8 237.8
Basic 0.77 (1.20) (0.43) 5.93 (96.67) (90.74)
Diluted 0.77 (1.20) (0.43) 5.93 (96.67) (90.74)
From continuing operations
Earnings per share (p)
Earnings (£m) 14 26.9 (42.4) (15.5) 13.0 (228.9) (215.9)
Weighted average number of shares (m) 14 3,520.0 3,520.0 3,520.0 237.8 237.8 237.8
Basic 0.76 (1.20) (0.44) 5.46 (96.25) (90.79)
Diluted 0.76 (1.20) (0.44) 5.46 (96.25) (90.79)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  Comparatives restated to show additional bonus and rights issues totalling 4,603,565,483 following the Group’s announcement on 23 June 2014 of the Capital Refinancing Plan and 
shortly thereafter a share consolidation of every 50 ordinary shares into one new ordinary share. Refer to Note 27 and the Financial Review section for further details. 77 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015
Revaluation
reserve 
£’000
Translation
reserve 
£’000
 Retained
earnings 
£’000
Total
£’000
Loss for the period – – (15,100) (15,100)
Other items of comprehensive loss
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes (net of tax)
2
– – (17,591) (17,591)
Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – (17,591) (17,591)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Revaluation adjustment (4) – 4 –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – (21) – (21)
Deferred tax on exchange differences – 7 – 7
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (4) (14) 4 (14)
Total other comprehensive loss for the period (4) (14) (17,587) (17,605)
Total comprehensive loss for the period (4) (14) (32,687) (32,705)
For the 52 week period ended 28 December 2013
Revaluation
reserve 
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Restated
1,2
 Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Loss for the period – – (215,598) (215,598) 
Other items of comprehensive (loss)/income
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes (net of tax)
1,2
– – 37,039 37,039
Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – 37,039 37,039
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Revaluation adjustment (46) – 46 –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – 500 – 500
Deferred tax on exchange differences – (188) – (188)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (46) 312 46 312
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period (46) 312 37,085 37,351
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the period (46) 312 (178,513) (178,247)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting policies section 
and Note 24 for further details.
²  Relates to actuarial loss of £17,560,000 (28 December 2013 restated: gain of £37,129,000) for the Johnston Press Pension Plan (refer Note 24), and a net actuarial loss of £31,000 (28 December 2013: 
£90,000) (refer Note 26) for two other pension related liabilities; the obligations for which are shown in accruals. The 2013 results have been restated for an incorrect over accrual relating to the 
Johnston Press Pension Plan. Refer to Note 24 for further details. 78 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Share-based
payments
reserve 
£’000
Revaluation
reserve
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
 £’000
Total
 £’000
29 December 2013 as previously reported 69,541 502,829 13,576 1,737 (5,312) 9,579 (494,867) 97,083
Effect of accruals reversal – PPF and Section 75 
(Note 24) – – – – – – 4,176 4,176 
Deferred tax impact on accruals reversal (Note 24) – – – – – – (835) (835)
29 December 2013 as restated 69,541 502,829 13,576 1,737 (5,312) 9,579 (491,526) 100,424
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – (4) – (14) (32,687) (32,705)
Recognised directly in equity:
Preference share dividends accrued (Note 13) – – – – – – (152) (152)
Share-based payments charge (Note 31) – – 907 – – – – 907
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – (25) – – – – (25)
Share capital issued (Note 27) 46,630 – – – – – – 46,630
Share premium arising (Note 28) – 84,873 – – – – – 84,873
Performance share plan exercised – – (77) – 77 – – –
Company share option plan exercised – – – – 29 – – 29
Release on exercise of warrants – – (601) – – – 601 –
Net changes directly in equity 46,630 84,873 204 – 106 – 449 132,262 
Total movements 46,630 84,873 204 (4) 106 (14) (32,238) 99,557 
Equity at the end of the period 116,171 587,702 13,780 1,733 (5,206) 9,565 (523,764) 199,981 
 
For the 52 week period ended 28 December 2013
Opening balances 65,081 502,818 18,959 1,783 (5,589) 9,267 (318,402) 273,917
Total comprehensive loss for the period 
(restated) – – – (46) – 312 (178,513) (178,247)
Recognised directly in equity:
Preference share dividends paid (Note 13) – – – – – – (152) (152)
Share-based payments charge (Note 31) – – 512 – – – – 512
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions – – 20 – – – – 20
Share capital issued (Note 27) 4,460 11 – – – – – 4,471
Release on exercise of warrants – – (5,541) – – – 5,541 –
Release of deferred bonus shares – – (374) – 374 – – –
Own shares purchased – – – – (97) – – (97)
Net changes directly in equity 4,460 11 (5,383) – 277 – 5,389 4,754
Total movements 4,460 11 (5,383) (46) 277 312 (173,124) (173,493)
Equity at the end of the period 69,541 502,829 13,576 1,737 (5,312) 9,579 (491,526) 100,424
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 79 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Group Statement of Financial Position
At 3 January 2015
Notes
3 January
2015 
£’000
Restated
1
28 December
2013
£’000
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets 15 514,324 541,360
Property, plant and equipment 16 53,334 54,181
Available for sale investments 17 970 970
Interests in associates 18 22 22
Trade and other receivables 21 2 6
568,652 596,539
Current assets
Assets classified as held for sale 19 1,301 6,625
Inventories 20 2,543 2,545
Trade and other receivables 21 37,677 36,718
Cash and cash equivalents 21 30,817 29,075
Derivative financial instruments 23/33 – 1,108
72,338 76,071
Total assets 5 640,990 672,610
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
1
21 46,908 69,837
Current tax liabilities 1,032 752
Retirement benefit obligation
1
24 6,489 5,700
Borrowings 22/33 – 8,553
Short-term provisions 26 2,087 1,796
56,516 86,638
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22/33 215,437 314,863
Retirement benefit obligation
1
24 83,512 72,634
Deferred tax liabilities 25 81,352 93,611
Trade and other payables 21 2 136
Long-term provisions 26 4,190 4,304
384,493 485,548
Total liabilities 441,009 572,186
Net assets 199,981 100,424
Equity
Share capital 27 116,171 69,541
Share premium account 28 587,702 502,829
Share-based payments reserve 13,780 13,576
Revaluation reserve 1,733 1,737
Own shares (5,206) (5,312)
Translation reserve 9,565 9,579
Retained earnings
1
(523,764) (491,526)
Total equity 199,981 100,424
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related balances. Refer to the Accounting policies 
section and Note 24 for further details.
The financial statements of Johnston Press plc, registered in Scotland (number 15382), were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on 25 March 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
Ashley Highfield  David King
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 80 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Cash Flow Statement 
For the 52 week period ended 3 January 2015
Notes
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000 
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
1
29 6,318 54,145
Income tax received/(paid) 918 (2,800)
Cash generated from discontinued operations 571 392
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,807 51,737
Investing activities
Interest received 49 16
Dividends received 2,160 377
Proceeds on disposal of publishing titles – 1,965
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 484 1,020
Proceeds on disposal of assets held for sale 7,612 2,677
Expenditure on digital intangible assets 15 (1,513) (3,033)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 16 (7,149) (4,320)
Disposal proceeds and investing activities of discontinued operations 12 5,882 1
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 7,525 (1,297)
Financing activities
Issuance of bonds 22 220,500 –
Placing and Rights Issue 27,28 140,022 –
Share exercises – option schemes, warrants
2
27,28 662 4,471
Dividends paid 13 – (152)
Interest paid (27,008) (24,803)
Repayment of bank borrowings (204,738) (26,586)
Repayment of loan notes (121,798) (6,473)
Refinancing fees (equity and debt issuance costs) (21,100) (514)
Purchase of foreign currency options (159) –
Cash movement relating to own shares held 29 (97)
Net cash used in financing activities (13,590) (54,154)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,742 (3,714)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 29,075 32,789
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 30,817 29,075
¹  Includes exceptional cash receipts of £nil milllion (28 December 2013: £10.0 million) due to the termination of the News International printing contract 2013.
²  Share option and share warrant exercises generated a net cash inflow of £658,000. Issue of share capital generated £594,000 and issue of share premium generated £64,000.  
Also includes proceeds from fractional shares of £4,000 (refer Note 28 for further details).
The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 81 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015
1. Basis of Preparation
Johnston Press plc (“Johnston Press” or “the Group”) is a public limited liability company incorporated in Scotland under the Companies Act 2006 and 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The registered office is Orchard Brae House, 30 Queensferry Road, Edinburgh, EH4 2HS. The principal activities 
of the Group are described in the Operational Review and Financial Review sections of the Strategic Report.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies preparing 
their accounts under IFRS.
These financial statements have been prepared for the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (2013: 52 week period ended 28 December 2013).
The significant accounting policies used in preparing this information are set out in Note 2.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the 2013 Annual Report, with the exception  
of a restatement of results relating to the adoption of IAS19R (refer Note 24) and to show the Republic of Ireland business as a discontinued operation 
due to its disposal of 1 April 2014 (refer Note 12). The financial statements have also been adjusted, where appropriate, by new or amended IFRS 
described below.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (discussed further in the Financial Review on page 26) and under the 
historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments, share-based payments and defined benefit pension 
obligations that are measured at revalued amounts or fair value at the end of each reporting period.
2. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Adoption of new or amended standards and interpretations in the current year 
The following new and amended IFRSs have been adopted for the 53 week period which commenced 29 December 2013 and ended 3 January 2015. 
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements
IAS 19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’  
(revised 2011)
Requires:
• all re-measurements of defined benefit obligations and plan assets to be included in 
other comprehensive income;
• pension scheme net finance expense to be measured using the discount rate applied 
in measuring the defined benefit obligation;
• unvested past service costs to be recognised in profit or loss at the earlier of when 
the amendment occurs or when the related restructuring or termination costs are 
recognised; and
• quantitative sensitivity disclosures.
Adopted retrospectively for the 53 week period commencing 29 December 2013. 
Refer Note 24 for quantification of 
this change.
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’
Establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements and requires 
additional disclosures about fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an 
entity is required to use fair value, but provides guidance on how to measure fair value 
under IFRS when it is required or permitted.
Adopted prospectively from 29 December 2013.
None; Additional disclosures 
provided in Notes 22 and 33. 82 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued)
2. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies (continued)
The following describes narrow scope amendments applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but which have been early 
adopted in the financial statements for the 53 week period commencing 29 December 2013 and ending 3 January 2015.
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements
Amendments to IFRS 10, 
IFRS 12 and IAS 27 – 
Investment Entities 
Defines an investment entity and introduces an exception to 
consolidating particular subsidiaries for investment entities. 
None.
Amendments to 
IAS 32 – Offsetting 
Financial Assets and 
Financial Liabilities 
Addresses inconsistencies in current practice when applying 
the offsetting criteria in IAS 32. The amendment clarifies 
offsetting when there is a legally enforceable right of set off 
and where settlement in intended on a net basis or to realise 
the asset and settle to liability simultaneously.
Refer Note 33(e) for Financial Asset and Liability disclosures 
and Note 21 for Trade Receivables and Payables. No 
offsetting of Debtor and Creditor balances with the same 
party takes place. 
Amendments to 
IAS 36 – Recoverable 
Amount Disclosures for 
Non-Financial Assets 
Clarifies the scope of certain disclosures about the 
recoverable amount of impaired assets. 
None; disclosures not required prior to IFRS13.
Amendments to 
IAS 39 – Novation of 
Derivatives and 
Continuation of Hedge 
Accounting 
Introduces a narrow-scope exception to the requirement for 
the discontinuation of hedge accounting the continuation 
where a derivative designated as a hedging instrument is 
novated from one counterparty to a central counterparty, as 
a consequence of new laws or regulations, if specific 
conditions are met.
None; Refer Note 23 – derivatives expired in the  
current period.
New and amended IFRS issued by the IASB but not yet effective for the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015
The following standards and interpretations are applicable to companies with periods beginning during 2014 and which were endorsed by the EU in 
December 2014. These will be mandatory for Johnston Press plc in the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted.
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements
IFRIC 21 Levies Clarifies how an entity should account for liabilities to pay 
levies imposed by governments. 
None; Refer Note 24 in relation to PPF and Section 75 
levies recognised in the income statement.
Amendments to 
IAS 19 – Defined Benefit 
Plans: Employee 
Contributions 
Introduces a narrow-scope amendment to simplify the 
accounting for contributions that are independent of the 
number of years of employee service eg, employee 
contributions that are calculated according to a fixed 
percentage of salary. 
None; Refer Note 24.
Annual improvements 
to IFRSs 2010-2012 
cycle
Minor amendments to IFRS 2, 3, 8, 13 and IAS 16 and 38  
and IAS 24.
None; Minor revisions taken into consideration when 
applying standards.
Annual improvements 
to IFRSs 2011-2013 
cycle 
Minor amendments to IFRS 1, 3, 13 and IAS 40. None; Minor revisions taken into consideration when 
applying standards. 83 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
New standards applicable to accounting periods beginning after 2015
Accounting standard Requirements Effective date
IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments (Issued 
24 July 2014)
*
 
IFRS 9 sets out the requirements for recognising and 
measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some 
contracts to buy or sell non-financial items. IFRS 9 will 
supersede IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement. 
Effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2018; the 
impact is yet to be assessed. 
IFRS 14 Regulatory 
Deferral Accounts 
(Issued 30 January 2014)
*
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts specifies the reporting 
requirements for regulatory deferral account balances that 
arise when an entity provides goods or services to customers 
at a price or rate that is subject to rate regulation.
Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and is 
not likely to be relevant to the Group. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with 
Customers
*
IFRS 15 (which replaces IAS 11 and 18 and SIC 31, IFRIC 13,  
15 and 18) provides a single, principles-based five-step model 
that should be applied to determine how and when to 
recognise revenue from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15’s core principle is that revenue is recognised to depict 
the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an 
amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
A five-step approach to revenue recognition is required:
• Identify the contract(s) with a customer.
• Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
• Determine the transaction price.
• Allocate the transaction price to the performance 
obligations in the contract.
• Recognise revenue when (or as) performance obligations 
are satisfied.
IFRS 15 also includes requirements for accounting for costs 
related to a contract with a customer. These are recognised as 
an asset if certain criteria are met.
The standard requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures 
in respect of revenue, contract balances, performance 
obligations, significant judgements and assets recognised 
from costs to obtain or fulfill a contract. 
Published May 2014, the standard is expected to be 
endorsed Q1 ‘15 and likely applicable to annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
A detailed assessment of the implications of the standard 
on the business will be undertaken particularly as it relates 
to digital marketing services contracts and longer term 
advertising agreements delivered across multiple platforms.
* Not yet EU endorsed.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
(together referred to as “the Group”) made up to the Saturday closest to 31 December each year for either a 52 or 53 week period. 
Accounting for subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date control is 
obtained or up to the effective date control is relinquished, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 84 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies (continued)
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values 
at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the Income Statement as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, including publishing titles, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, 
except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations’, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Investment in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence and is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint 
venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control 
over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Group financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
Investments in associates are carried in the Group Statement of Financial Position at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Discontinued operations
On 1 April 2014 the Group completed the disposal of the Republic of Ireland titles to Iconic Newspapers. In accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current assets 
held for sale and discontinued operations” the net results for the year are presented within discontinued operations in the income statement. For 
additional information refer to Note 12.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items include significant transactions such as the costs associated with restructuring of businesses along with material items including for 
example revenue received on the termination of significant print contracts, significant pension related costs, the disposal or exit of a significant 
property directly linked to restructuring and impairment of intangible and tangible assets together with the associated tax impact. The Company 
considers such items are material to the Income Statement and their separate disclosure is necessary for an appropriate understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance. These items have been presented as a separate column in the Group Income Statement.
Publishing titles
The Group’s principal intangible assets are publishing titles. The Group does not capitalise internally generated publishing titles. Titles separately 
acquired after 1 January 1989 are stated at cost and titles owned by subsidiaries acquired after 1 January 1996 are recorded at the Directors’ valuation 
at the date of acquisition. These publishing titles have no finite life and consequently are not amortised. The carrying value of the titles is reviewed for 
impairment at least annually with testing undertaken to determine any diminution in the recoverable amount below carrying value. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use is based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. Any 
impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is 
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the Group Income Statement given these assets are not carried at revalued amounts.
For the purpose of impairment testing, publishing titles are allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units. Cash generating units are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the value of publishing titles and 
then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. 
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets in respect of digital activities are amortised using the straight-line method over the expected life, of two to five years, over which 
those assets will generate revenues and profits for the Group and are tested for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently where there is 
an indication that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount.
Costs incurred in the development and maintenance of websites are only capitalised if the criteria specified in IAS 38 are met.
Valuation of share-based payments 
The Group estimates the expected value of equity-settled share-based payments and this is charged through the Income Statement over the vesting 
periods of the relevant awards. The cost is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The Black-Scholes calculations are based on a number of 
assumptions that are set out in Note 31 and are amended to take account of estimated levels of share vesting and exercise.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided 
in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. 
Print advertising revenue is recognised on publication and circulation revenue is recognised at the point of sale. Digital revenues are recognised on 
publication for advertising or delivery of service for other digital revenues. Printing revenue is recognised when the service is provided. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 85 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company 
are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated 
financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each period end, monetary assets and liabilities that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the close of business on the last working day of the period. Non-
monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value 
was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the 
period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except 
for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at historical cost in respect of which gains and losses are recognised  
directly in equity. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at exchange 
rates prevailing on the period end date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as 
expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of. 
Fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the 
closing rate.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment balances are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. In certain cases the amounts of 
previous revaluations of properties conducted in 1996 or 1997 or the fair value of the property at the date of the acquisition by the Group have been 
treated as the deemed cost on transition to IFRS. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, excluding land, at varying rates 
calculated to write-off cost over the useful lives. The principal rates employed are: 
Heritable and freehold property (excluding land) 2.5% on written down value
Leasehold land and buildings Equal annual instalments over lease term
Web offset presses (excluding press components) 5% straight-line basis
Mailroom equipment 6.67% straight-line basis
Pre-press systems 20% straight-line basis
Other plant and machinery including IT infrastructure 6.67%, 10%, 20%, 25% and 33% straight-line basis
Motor vehicles 25% straight-line basis
Assets classified as held for sale
Where a property or a significant item of equipment (such as a print press or property no longer required as part of Group operations) is marketed for 
sale, management is highly committed to the sale and the asset is available for immediate sale, the Group classifies that asset as held for sale. If the 
asset is expected to be sold within 12 months, the asset is classed as a current asset. The value of the asset is held at the lower of the net book value  
or the expected realisable sale value.
The Directors have estimated the sale values based on the current price that the asset is being marketed at and advice from independent property 
agents. The actual sale proceeds may differ from the estimate.
Provisions for onerous leases and dilapidations
Where the Group exits a rented property, an estimate of the anticipated total future cost payable under the terms of the operating lease, including 
rentals, rates and other related expenses, is charged to the Income Statement at the point where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations 
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. Where there is a break clause in the contract, rentals are provided 
for up to that point. In addition, an estimate is made of the likelihood of sub-letting the premises and any rentals that would be receivable from a 
sub-tenant. Where receipt of sub-lease rentals is considered reasonable, these amounts are deducted from the rentals payable by the Group under 
the lease and provision charged for the net amount.
Under the terms of a number of property leases, the Group is required to return the property to its original condition at the lease expiry date. The 
Group has estimated the expected costs of these dilapidations and charged these costs to the Income Statement. No discounting has been applied  
to the provision as the effect of the discounting is not considered material.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost incurred in bringing materials to their present location and condition 
comprises: (a) raw materials and goods for resale at purchase cost on a first-in first-out basis; and (b) work in progress at cost of direct materials, labour 
and certain overheads. Net realisable value comprises selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.  86 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies (continued)
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date in accordance with the terms of the purchase or sale contract and are initially 
measured at fair value, plus transaction costs.
Available for sale financial assets
Listed and unlisted investments are shown as available for sale and are stated at fair value. Fair value of listed investments is determined with reference 
to quoted market prices. Fair value of unlisted investments is determined by the Directors. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are 
recognised directly in equity, with the exception of impairment losses which are recognised directly in the Income Statement. Where the investment 
is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for 
the period.
Dividends on available for sale equity investments are recognised in the Income Statement when the Group’s right to receive the payment 
is established.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest. They are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. Other trade receivables are provided for on an individual basis where there is evidence that an amount is no 
longer recoverable.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each period end date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence 
that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment 
have been impacted. The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of 
trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Changes in the carrying 
value of this allowance are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities and funding structure may from time to time give rise to some exposure to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and 
foreign currency exchange rates. In prior periods the Group entered into a number of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these 
risks, including interest rate swaps and caps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange options and forward foreign exchange contracts. Further details 
of derivative financial instruments are given in Note 33. Derivative positions expired or were terminated prior to the period end.
The Group re-measures each derivative at its fair value at the period end date with the resultant gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss 
immediately. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a 
financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 
12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are 
not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in 
profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings
The borrowings of £225 million 8.625% senior secured notes due 2019 agreed as part of the June 2014 refinancing are recorded at quoted market fair 
value and classified as Level 1 according to IFRS 13. As the borrowings are shown at fair value the associated issue costs have been charged to the 
Income Statement (refer to Note 10c). The borrowings in previous periods were recorded at amortised cost.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 87 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. In the 
event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate benefit of incentives is 
recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Where the Group is a lessor, rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Operating (loss)/profit
Operating (loss)/profit is stated after charging restructuring or other exceptional costs but before investment income, other finance income, finance 
costs and the share of the results of associates.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date 
and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the period end date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax-based values used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, 
at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the relevant requirements of IAS 12 are satisfied. 
Retirement benefit costs
The Group provides pensions to employees through various schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the Income Statement as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to 
the industry-wide retirement benefit schemes in the Republic of Ireland are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the 
Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each period end date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are 
recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Past service cost is recognised immediately to 
the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to 
past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Where we have determined that we do not have the unconditional right to any surplus within the plan, and the present value of contributions exceeds 
the IAS 19 deficit, then the Company recognises an additional liability under the minimum funding obligations under IFRIC 14. 88 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3. Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, management has made the following judgements that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements (apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below).
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may 
differ from these estimates.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items include significant transactions such as the costs associated with restructuring of businesses along with material items including for 
example revenue received on the termination of significant print contracts, significant pension related costs, the disposal or exit of a significant 
property directly linked to restructuring and impairment of intangible and tangible assets together with the associated tax impact. The Company 
considers such items are material to the Income Statement and their separate disclosure is necessary for an appropriate understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance. These items have been presented as a separate column in the Group Income Statement.
Provisions for onerous leases and dilapidations
Where the Group exits a rented property, an estimate of the anticipated total future cost payable under the terms of the operating lease, including 
rentals, rates and other related expenses, is charged to the Income Statement at the point of exit as an onerous lease. Where there is a break clause in 
the contract, rentals are provided for up to that point. In addition, an estimate is made of the likelihood of sub-letting the premises and any rentals that 
would be receivable from a sub-tenant. Where receipt of sub-lease rentals is considered reasonable, these amounts are deducted from the rentals 
payable by the Group under the lease and provision charged for the net amount.
Under the terms of a number of property leases, the Group is required to return the property to its original condition at the lease expiry date. The 
Group has estimated the expected costs of these dilapidations and charged these costs to the Income Statement. No discounting has been applied to 
the provision as the effect of the discounting is not considered material. 
Valuation of share-based payments
The Group estimates the expected value of equity-settled share-based payments and this is charged through the Income Statement over the vesting 
periods of the relevant awards. The cost is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The Black-Scholes calculations are based on a number of 
assumptions and are amended to take account of estimated levels of share vesting and exercise.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the period end date that have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of publishing titles and print presses
Determining whether publishing titles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units (CGUs) to which these assets 
are allocated. Key areas of judgement in the value in use calculation include the identification of appropriate CGUs, estimation of future cash flows 
expected to arise from each CGU, the long-term growth rates and a suitable discount rate to apply to cash flows in order to calculate present value. 
The Group has identified its CGUs based on the seven geographic regions in which it operates. This is considered to be the lowest level at which cash 
inflows generated are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets and has been consistently applied in the current and prior 
periods. £21.6 million impairment loss has been recognised for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: £202.4 million). The carrying 
value of publishing titles at 3 January 2015 was £511.6 million (28 December 2013: £538.5 million). Details of the impairment reviews that the Group 
performs are provided in Note 15.
Determining whether print presses are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of each print site. The value in use calculation requires the 
Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the print sites and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value (Note 15).
Valuation of pension liabilities
The Group records in its Statement of Financial Position a liability equivalent to the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes increased 
where appropriate to include an estimate for the present value of agreed future contributions as required under IFRIC 14. The pension liability is 
determined with advice from the Group’s actuarial advisers each year and can fluctuate based on a number of factors, some of which are outside the 
control of management. The main factors that can impact the valuation include:
• the discount rate used to discount future liabilities back to the present date, determined each year from the yield on corporate bonds;
• the actual returns on investments experienced as compared to the expected rates used in the previous valuation;
• the actual rates of salary and pension increase as compared to the expected rates used in the previous valuation;
• the forecast inflation rate experienced as compared to the expected rates used in the previous valuation; and
• mortality assumptions.
Details of the assumptions used to determine the liability at 3 January 2015 are set out in Note 24.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 89 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
4. Business Segments
Information reported to the Chief Executive Officer for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is focused on the 
two areas of Publishing (in print and online) and Contract Printing. Geographical segments are not presented as the primary segment is the UK which is 
greater than 90% of Group activities.
5. Segment Information
a) Segment revenues and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment:
53 weeks period ended 3 January 2015
Restated
1 
52 weeks period ended 28 December 2013
Publishing 
£’000
Contract
printing 
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group 
 £’000
Publishing 
£’000
Contract 
printing 
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group 
 £’000
Revenue
Print advertising 138,087 – – 138,087 150,397 – – 150,397
Digital advertising 29,116 – – 29,116 24,112 – – 24,112
Newspaper sales 79,144 – – 79,144 82,086 – – 82,086
Contract printing – 12,804 – 12,804 – 11,206 – 11,206
Other 8,177 1,495 – 9,672 10,587 1,590 – 12,177
Total external sales 254,524 14,299 – 268,823 267,182 12,796 – 279,978
Inter-segment sales
2
– 36,727 (36,727) – – 39,436 (39,436) –
Exceptional items – – – – – 10,000 – 10,000
Total revenue 254,524 51,026 (36,727) 268,823 267,182 62,232 (39,436) 289,978
Operating (loss)/profit
Segment result before exceptional items 50,704 4,748 – 55,452 49,435 4,384 – 53,819
Exceptional items (44,478) (261) – (44,739) (245,406) (54,091) – (299,497)
Net segment result 6,226 4,487 – 10,713 (195,971) (49,707) – (245,678)
Investment income 2,209 393
Net finance expense on pension assets/liabilities (3,330) (5,446)
Net IAS 21/39 adjustments
3
6,725 (177)
Net finance costs (including exceptionals) (40,233) (40,532)
Share of results of associates – 2
Loss before tax (23,916) (291,438)
Tax 8,580 75,726
Loss after tax for the period – 
continuing operations (15,336) (215,712)
Profit after tax for the period – 
discontinued operations 236 114
Consolidated loss after tax for the period (15,100) (215,598)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details. 
²  Inter-segment sales are charged at standard internal charging rates.
³  Relates to changes in fair value of borrowings, changes in fair value of hedges, retranslation of USD and retranslation of Euro-denominated debt. 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 2. The segment result 
represents the (loss)/profit earned by each segment without allocation of the share of results of associates, investment income, finance costs (including 
in relation to pension assets and liabilities) and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer for the 
purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance. 90 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
5. Segment Information (continued)
b) Segment assets
3 January 
2015
 £’000 
28 December
2013
£’000 
Assets
Publishing 609,452 638,679
Contract printing 31,538 32,823
Total segment assets 640,990 671,502
Unallocated assets – 1,108
Consolidated total assets 640,990 672,610
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Group’s Chief Executive Officer monitors the 
tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment. All assets are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of derivative 
financial instruments.
c) Other segment information
53 weeks to 3 January 2015 52 weeks to 28 December 2013
Publishing
 £’000
Contract
printing
£’000
Group 
 £’000
Publishing
£’000
Contract
printing 
 £’000
Group
£’000
Additions to property, plant and equipment 7,044 105 7,149 4,320 – 4,320
Depreciation and amortisation expense (continuing) 3,869 1,638 5,507 4,108 3,644 7,752
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2,667 – 2,667 1,443 62,252 63,695
Net impairment of intangibles 21,568 – 21,568 202,427 – 202,427
6. Exceptional Items
Notes
53 weeks to
3 January
2015
 £’000
Restated
1,2
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
Revenue
Termination of printing contract – 10,000
Total revenue – exceptional items – 10,000
Operating expenses
Pensions
 Plan expenses 24 (380) –
 Pension protection fund contribution
1
24 (2,038) (6,347)
 Newspaper Society Pension Scheme 26 (873) –
Restructuring costs (10,896) (32,061)
One-off incentive plans (4,552) –
Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 869 199 
Other (2,334) (495)
Total exceptional operating expenses (20,204) (38,704)
Impairment and write down of:
Intangible assets (21,568) (202,427)
Property, plant and equipment (2,667) (63,695)
Assets held for sale (300) (4,671)
Total exceptional impairment (24,535) (270,793)
Total exceptional finance costs 10c (9,046) (724)
Net exceptional items (53,785) (300,221)
Taxation on exceptional items 11,427 71,367 
Total exceptional items after tax (42,358) (228,854)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  Comparative income statement information has been restated to show the Republic of Ireland business as a discontinued operation due to its disposal on 1 April 2014.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 91 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Revenue
In 2013, the Group recognised revenue of £10.0 million from the termination of a long-term printing contract with News International following its 
closure of News of the World in 2012. There is no exceptional revenue reported for the year ended 3 January 2015. 
Operating expenses – pensions
Plan expenses in 2014 comprise £0.4 million additional administration expenses incurred in connection with refinancing (2013: £nil). 
During 2014, the pension regulator has requested payment of Pension Protection Fund levy of £2.7 million for the year ending 31 March 2015 (2013: 
£3.1 million and £3.2 million for the years ending 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively). The pension levy was charged at the capped rate, 
reflecting historic high gearing. The charge has fallen to £2.7 million and is expected to reduce as reduced gearing and flexible apportionment is 
reflected in the levy assessment.
During 2014, the Group recognised a £0.9 million (2013: £nil) charge reflecting a commitment over the next 24 years to address the deficit of the 
Newspaper Society’s defined benefit pension scheme. Refer to Note 26 for further details.
Operating expenses – restructuring costs
Restructuring costs of £7.3 million relate to reorganisations designed to reduce costs largely carried out in 2013 but further continued in 2014 
(2013: £23.9 million). Other restructuring costs include early lease termination costs, empty property costs, dilapidations and dual-running office 
cost of £1.3 million (2013: £5.4 million), and other associated legal and consulting fees of £2.3 million (2013: £2.8 million).
Operating expenses – incentive plans
Costs include a bonus arrangement for the retention and incentivisation of senior managers (excluding Executive Directors) of £3.9 million which 
will be payable in March 2016 (2013: £nil). A one-off further bonus opportunity of £0.4 million will be made available to the Executive Directors 
(2013: £nil). A £0.2 million charge for the value creation plan was incurred in the year, following the completion of the capital refinancing plan  
(2013: £nil) (refer Note 31).
Operating expenses – gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment
In line with Group policy, disposal gains of £0.8 million were recognised in Exceptional Items during the period relating to two significant property 
disposals, which were held as Assets Classified as Held for Sale at 28 December 2013. Print press equipment was sold in the period with gains on 
disposal of £0.1 million (2013: £0.2 million). 
A net gain of £1.0 million from several property disposals were included in operating profit during the period; this is in line with Group policy.
Operating expenses – other
The Group incurred other operating expenses of £2.0 million (2013: £0.5 million) relating to one-off trade obligations and professional fees for 
corporate strategy review and aborted and other disposals. A £0.3 million charge has been expensed for significant legal fees arising from a dispute 
that will be settled in early 2015. 
Impairment of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale
An impairment of £21.6 million was required for intangible assets in the 2014 period (2013: £202.4 million) (refer Note 15). 
In the year, £2.7 million has been written down on property assets. There was no write-down on the 3 printing presses (2013: £63.7 million). 
A £0.3 million write-down of assets held for sale was charged in the year (2013: £4.6 million). 
Finance costs
Exceptional finance costs totalling £9.0 million (2013: £nil) includes the £9.2 million interest accrual release, and term debt issue costs written off in the 
period of £7.1 million, following the refinancing. Other refinancing fees of £11.1 million (2013: £0.7 million) charged to exceptionals in the period relate 
to legal and professional fees associated with refinancing that were attributable to the equity and bond issue, the new revolving credit facility, the 
repayment of lending banks and noteholders and the new pension framework agreement. Refer to Note 6c for further details.
Tax-effect of exceptional items
The Group has disclosed a £11.4 million tax credit (2013: £72.6 million) in relation to the total exceptional items of £54.3 million (2013: £300.2 million). 92 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
7. Operating (Loss)/Proﬁt
Notes
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
Operating (loss)/profit is shown after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 5,313 7,543
Exceptional write down in value of presses
1
16 2,667 63,695
Exceptional write down of assets classified as held for sale 19 300 4,671
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment:
 Operating disposals (1,110) (1,065)
 Exceptional disposals (869) (199)
Movement in allowance for doubtful debts 21 (695) (1,019)
Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 8 100,703 107,320
Redundancy costs 8 7,320 23,794
Auditor’s remuneration:
 Company and Group accounts 159 173
 Subsidiaries 240 240
Operating lease charges:
 Property 30 4,938 5,040
 Vehicles 30 1,752 1,887
Rentals received on sub-let property (91) (115)
Net foreign exchange gains (39) (148)
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 27,027 27,720
¹  Includes £1,500,000 relating to the Sheffield property which has a redundant press hall in its basement and £1,167,000 of redundant assets in Score Press Limited (2013: £63,695,000 
relates to write down of the presses).
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment – operating disposals
The Group operates a large portfolio of properties, and regularly exits and renews leases, as well as sale and leaseback of freehold properties. Profits 
of £1.0 million for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: £0.6 million) from property sales were included in operating (loss)/profit. 
There were 21 such sales for the period ended 3 January 2015. The Group expects to continue to realise profits from asset disposals for the 52 week 
period ended 2 January 2016.
Staff costs shown above include £2,566,000 (28 December 2013: £1,410,000) relating to remuneration of Directors. In addition to the auditor’s 
remuneration shown above, the auditor received the following fees for non-audit services.
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000
52 weeks to 
28 December
2013
 £’000
Audit-related assurance services 55 55
Taxation compliance services 55 68
Other taxation advisory services 37 5
Other services related to refinancing 305 6
452 134
All non-audit services were approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considers that these non-audit services have not impacted the 
independence of the audit process. In addition, an amount of £19,000 (28 December 2013: £19,000) was paid to the external auditor for the audit of 
the Group’s pension scheme. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 93 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
8. Employees 
The average monthly number of employees, including Executive Directors, was:
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
No.
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
No.
Editorial and photographic 1,133 1,407
Sales and distribution 1,504 1,627
Production 355 426
Administration 250 268
Average number of employees 3,242 3,728
Notes
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
Staff costs:
Wages and salaries 87,133 93,904
Social security costs 8,238 8,582
Redundancy costs 7,320 23,794
Other pension costs
1
 24 4,425 4,322
Cost of share-based awards 31 907 512
Total staff costs 108,023 131,114
¹  Other pension costs relates to Group pension contributions to the defined contribution scheme. 
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are included in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 62. 
9. Investment Income 
53 weeks to
3 January
2015
£’000
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
Income from available for sale investments 2,109 378
Income from other investments 51 –
Interest receivable 49 15
2,209 393
10. Finance Costs 
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000
Restated
1
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
a) Net finance expense on pension liabilities/assets
Interest on assets 19,376  16,781
Interest on liabilities (22,706)  (22,227)
Net finance expense on pension liabilities/assets (3,330)  (5,446)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting policies section for further details.
IAS19R replaces the finance cost on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets with a net finance charge, based on the 
defined benefit liability and the discount rate, measured at the start of the period (29 December 2013). Accordingly, a discount rate of 4.65% has 
been applied on both interest on assets and liabilities (28 December 2013: 4.50%).
b) IAS 21/39 items
All movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Income Statement. In the current period, this movement was a 
net charge of £1.3 million (2013: £1.7 million net charge). The retranslation of foreign denominated debt resulted in a net gain of £2.9 million (2013: net 
gain £1.5 million). This is a result of GBP appreciating against the US Dollar and the Euro currencies, 3.4% and 4.4% respectively, to 3 January 2015. The 
retranslation of the Euro denominated publishing titles held at fair value is shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 94 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10. Finance Costs (continued)
In addition, the fair value movement on the 8.625% Senior Secured Bonds 2019 resulted in a gain of £5.1 million and was based on quoted market fair 
value. Refer to Note 22.
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000
52 weeks to
28 December
2013 
£’000
c) Finance Costs
Interest on bond (12,290) –
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (11,163) (23,504)
Payment-in-kind interest (5,345) (12,148)
Amortisation of term debt issue costs (2,389) (4,156)
Total operational finance costs (31,187) (39,808)
Payment-in-kind interest accrual release
1
9,181 –
Term debt issue costs written off on previous repaid loan services
1
(7,145) –
Gain on debt extinguishment 2,036 –
Refinancing fees on new capital raising
2
(11,082) (724)
Total exceptional finance costs (9,046) (724)
Total finance costs (40,233) (40,532)
¹  The interest accrual release of £9.2 million includes a release of the PIK accrual of £25.7 million less £6.4 million PIK payment and £10.1 million Make-Whole interest paid due to early 
debt repayment. The term debt issue costs write off of £7.1 million represents the remaining term debt issue costs after amortisation at the date of repayment.
²  The £11.1 million refinancing fees relates to legal and professional fees associated with the recent refinancing that were attributable to the equity and bond issue, the new revolving 
credit facility, the repayment of lending banks and noteholders and the new pension framework agreement. These have been recorded in the Income Statement.
 
11. Tax
53 weeks to
3 January
 2015
£’000
Restated
1
52 weeks to 
28 December
2013 
£’000
Current tax
Charge for the period – –
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (665) 669
(665) 669
Deferred tax (Note 25)
Credit for the period (1,874) (13,738)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – (1,629)
Deferred tax adjustment relating to the impairment of publishing titles in the period (6,041) (41,667)
Credit relating to reduction in deferred tax rate to 20% (2013: 23.0%) – (19,361)
(7,915) (76,395)
Total tax credit for the period (8,580) (75,726)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 21.5% (28 December 2013: 23.25%) of the estimated assessable loss for the period. The 21.5% basic tax rate 
applied for the 2014 period was a blended rate due to the tax rate of 23.0% in effect for the first quarter of 2014, changing to 21.0% from 1 April 2014 
under the 2013 Finance Act. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdiction.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 95 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
The tax credit for the period can be reconciled to the loss per the Income Statement as follows:
53 weeks to
3 January
2015 
£’000 %
Restated
1
52 weeks to
28 December
2013
£’000 %
Loss before tax (23,916) 100.0 (291,438) 100.0
Tax at 21.5% (28 December 2013: 23.25%) (5,142) 21.5 (67,759) 23.3
Tax effect of items that are not deductible or not taxable in determining taxable profit (2,729) 11.4 6,794 (2.3)
Tax effect of investment income (321) 1.3 (88) –
Effect of other tax rates (81) 0.3 2,838 (1.0)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 358 (1.5) 2,508 (0.8)
Effect of reduction in deferred tax rate – – (19,361) 6.6
Adjustment in respect of prior years (665) 2.8 (658) 0.2
Total tax credit (8,580) 35.9 (75,726) 26.0
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
12. Discontinued Operations 
On 1 April 2014 the Group announced and completed the disposal of the Republic of Ireland titles to Iconic Newspapers, part of Mediaforce Limited, 
for a cash consideration of £7.1 million. The assets were written down by £8.0 million at 28 December 2013 in anticipation of the disposal and 
therefore no profit or loss has been recorded in the current period for the disposal.
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’, the results and cash flows of this ‘disposal group’ are 
reported separately from the performance of continuing operations at each reporting date and comparatives have been restated.
The net profit from discontinued operations for the period ended 3 January 2015 was £0.3 million. As part of the disposal, a transitional services 
agreement (TSA) was agreed between the Group and Mediaforce. The TSA includes services such as pre-press, human resources, payroll, collections 
and information technology for varying periods of time. Since the disposal, the Group has recognised income of £0.6m under the TSA. This income has 
been included in the net profit/(loss) from discontinued operations for the period.
Profit on disposal of operations
53 weeks to
3 January
2015
£’000
Publishing titles 5,406
Property, plant and equipment 267
Net assets disposed 5,673
Add: Disposal costs 1,369
Carrying value of disposed operations 7,042
Consideration satisfied by cash 7,042
Loss on disposal of Republic of Ireland titles –
Disposal proceeds and investing activities of discontinued operations
3 January
2015
£’000
Cash consideration (above) 7,042
Disposal costs (1,160)
Net cash consideration 5,882  96 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13. Dividends
53 weeks to
3 January
2015
£’000
52 weeks to
28 December
2013
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Preference Dividends 
13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares (13.75p per share) 104 104
13.75% ‘A’ Preference Shares (13.75p per share) 48 48
152 152
No ordinary dividend is to be recommended to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting making a total for the period ended 3 January 2015 of £nil 
(28 December 2013: £nil).
As disclosed previously in our 28 December 2013 Annual Report and agreed by the shareholders, the Group is in the process of undertaking a capital 
reduction (refer Note 43) which will allow the resumption of payment of dividends including the payment of preference dividends which has 
been accrued.
14. Earnings Per Share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the following losses and weighted average number of shares:
Continuing and discontinued operations
53 weeks to
3 January
2015
£’000
Restated
1
52 weeks to
28 December
2013
£’000
Earnings
Loss for the period (15,100) (215,598)
Preference dividend
2
(152) (152)
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share (15,252) (215,750)
Exceptional items (after tax) 42,325 229,853
Earnings for the purposes of underlying earnings per share 27,073 14,103
000’s
Restated
3
000’s
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share
3,4
3,519,924 237,756
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– warrants and employee share options – –
– deferred bonus shares – –
Number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 3,519,924 237,756
Earnings per share (p)
Basic (0.43) (90.74)
Underlying
5
0.77 5.93 
Diluted
6
(0.43) (90.74)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  In line with IAS 33, the preference dividend and the number of preference shares are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
³  Comparatives restated to show additional bonus and rights issues totalling 4,603,565,483 following the Group’s announcement on 23 June 2014 of the Capital Refinancing Plan and 
shortly thereafter a share consolidation of every 50 ordinary shares into one new ordinary share. Refer to Note 27 for further details.
⁴  The weighted average number of ordinary shares are shown excluding treasury shares.
⁵  Underlying figures are presented to show the effect of excluding exceptional items from earnings per share.
⁶  Diluted earnings per share are presented when a company could be called upon to issue shares that would decrease net profit or increase loss per share. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 97 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Continuing operations
3 January
2015
£’000
Restated
1
28 December
2013
£’000
Earnings
Loss for the period (15,336) (215,712)
Preference dividend
2
(152) (152)
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share (15,488) (215,864)
Exceptional items (after tax) 42,358 228,854
Earnings for the purposes of underlying earnings per share 26,870 12,990
000’s
Restated
3
000’s
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share
3,4
3,519,924 237,756
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
– warrants and employee share options – –
– deferred bonus shares – –
Number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 3,519,924 237,756
Earnings per share (p)
Basic (0.44) (90.79)
Underlying
5
0.76 5.46 
Diluted
6
(0.44) (90.79)
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  In line with IAS 33, the preference dividend and the number of preference shares are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
³  Comparatives restated to show additional bonus and rights issues totalling 4,603,565,483 following the Group’s announcement on 23 June 2014 of the Capital Refinancing Plan and 
shortly thereafter a share consolidation of every 50 ordinary shares into one new ordinary share. Refer to Note 27 for further details.
⁴  The weighted average number of ordinary shares are shown excluding treasury shares.
⁵  Underlying figures are presented to show the effect of excluding exceptional items from earnings per share.
⁶  Diluted earnings per share are presented when a company could be called upon to issue shares that would decrease net profit or increase loss per share.
Refer to page 30 for further details on earnings per share.
15. Intangible Assets
Note
Publishing
titles 
£’000
Digital
intangible
assets 
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
Opening balance 1,302,277 3,033 1,305,310
Additions – 1,513 1,513
Disposals (153,154) – (153,154)
Transfers to property, plant and equipment 16 – (1,533) (1,533)
Closing balance 1,149,123 3,013 1,152,136
Accumulated impairment losses and amortisation
Opening balance 763,741 209 763,950
Amortisation for the period – 194 194
Disposals (147,748) – (147,748)
Impairment losses for the period 21,568 – 21,568
Transfers to property, plant and equipment 16 – (152) (152)
Closing balance 637,561 251 637,812
Carrying amount
Opening balance 538,536 2,824 541,360
Closing balance 511,562 2,762 514,324 98 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
15. Intangible Assets (continued)
Publishing titles
On 1 April 2014 the Group completed the disposal of the Republic of Ireland titles. The carrying amount of publishing titles by cash generating unit 
(CGU) is as follows:
28 December
2013 
£’000
Impairment
£’000
Disposal
£’000
3 January 
2015 
£’000
Scotland 52,127 – – 52,127 
North 217,231 – – 217,231
Northwest 61,512 (13,652) – 47,860
Midlands 120,082 – – 120,082
South 46,291 (7,916) – 38,375
Northern Ireland 35,887 – – 35,887
Republic of Ireland 5,406 – (5,406) –
Total carrying amount of publishing titles 538,536 (21,568) (5,406) 511,562
The Group tests the carrying value of publishing titles held within the publishing operating segment for impairment annually or more frequently if there 
are indications that they might be impaired. The publishing titles are grouped by CGUs, being the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are:
• the discount rate; 
• expected changes in underlying revenues and direct costs during the period; and 
• growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the CGUs. The discount rate applied to the future cash flows for the period ended 3 January 2015 was 12.0% (28 December 2013: 12.0%). The discount 
rate reflects management’s view of the current risk profile of the underlying assets being valued with regard to the current economic environment and 
the risks that the regional media industry is facing. 
Changes in underlying revenue and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. These include changes 
in demand for print and digital, circulation, cover prices, advertising rates as well as movement in newsprint and production costs and inflation.
Discounted cash flow forecasts are prepared using:
• the most recent financial budgets and projections approved by management for 2015 which reflect management’s current experience and future 
expectations of the markets the CGUs operate in;
• net cash inflows for future years are extrapolated based on an estimated annual long-term growth rate of 1.0%; and
• capital expenditure cash flows to reflect the cycle of capital investment required.
The present value of the cash flows is then compared to the carrying value of the asset to determine if there is any impairment loss. 
The total impairment charge recognised for the period ended 3 January 2015 was £21.6 million (28 December 2013: £202.4 million). The impairment 
charge in the period comprises £13.7 million in the North West and £7.9 million in the South of England.
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value. A decrease in the long-term growth rate of 0.5% 
would result in an impairment for the Group of £5.4 million and an increase in the discount rate of 0.5% would result in an impairment of £4.9 million.
Growth rate
sensitivity
£’000
Discount rate
sensitivity 
£’000
Scotland – –
North – –
Northwest 2,173 2,067
Midlands 1,211 939
South 1,992 1,894
Northern Ireland – –
Total potential impairment from sensitivity analysis 5,376 4,900
While the value in use of the Northwest and South CGUs have decreased during the period, the values in use of Scotland, North, Midlands and Northern 
Ireland CGUs have increased. No impairment would arise in the Scotland, North and Northern Ireland CGUs after applying the sensitivities as their values 
in use would continue to remain higher than their respective carrying values. A decrease in the long term growth rate of 0.5% would however reduce the 
headroom across these CGUs by £16.2 million while an increase in the discount rate of 0.5% would reduce headroom by £15.4 million.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 99 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Digital intangible assets
Digital intangible assets primarily relates to the new design of the Group’s 196 local websites and the development of a Customer Relationship 
Management (CRM) capability. The websites form the core platform for the Group’s digital revenue activities whereas the CRM capability will enable the 
Group to accelerate the growth of its subscriber base. These assets are being amortised over a period of two to five years. Amortisation for the year 
has been charged through cost of sales.
16. Property, Plant and Equipment
Note
Freehold 
land and 
buildings 
£’000
Leasehold 
buildings 
£’000
Plant and 
machinery 
£’000
Motor 
Vehicles
 £’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 28 December 2013 63,782 6,247 124,185 4,841 199,055
Additions – 1,888 5,261 – 7,149
Disposals (619) (77) (6,674) (2,156) (9,526)
Transfers in from digital intangible assets 15 – – 1,533 – 1,533
Transfers to assets held for sale 19 (1,817) (2,444) (1,678) – (5,939)
Reclassification (515) 519 (4) – –
Exchange differences (45) (1) (163) (13) (222)
At 3 January 2015 60,786 6,132 122,460 2,672 192,050
Depreciation
At 28 December 2013 35,859 3,836 100,361 4,818 144,874
Disposals (384) (69) (6,410) (2,154) (9,017)
Charge for the period 583 238 4,471 21 5,313
Exceptional write-down in period 2,667 – – – 2,667
Transfers in from digital intangible assets 15 – – 152 – 152
Transfers to assets held for sale 19 (1,226) (2,208) (1,639) – (5,073)
Reclassification 1,184 282 (1,466) – –
Exchange differences (27) – (160) (13) (200)
At 3 January 2015 38,656 2,079 95,309 2,672 138,716
Carrying amount
At 28 December 2013 27,923 2,411 23,824 23 54,181
At 3 January 2015 22,130 4,053 27,151 – 53,334
During the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015, the Group recognised a charge of £2.7 million. The write-down arises from decisions to rationalise 
facilities and are calculated based on fair value less costs of sale as quoted by external valuers. The impaired assets belong to the Group’s publishing 
segment and the impairments have been included in the Income Statement in exceptional items.
17. Available for Sale Investments
The Group’s available for sale investments are: 
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Listed investments at fair value 2 2
Unlisted investments
Cost 4,494 4,494
Provision for impairment (3,526) (3,526)
Unlisted investments carrying amount 968 968
Total investments 970 970
Listed investments at fair value represents investments in listed equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend 
income and trading gains. The Group holds a strategic non-controlling interest of 3.53% in Press Association Group Limited. These shares are not held 
for trading and accordingly are classified as available for sale. The fair values of all equity securities are based on quoted market prices.
The fair value of unlisted investments is determined by the Directors, as set out in the accounting policies in Note 2 under ‘Available for sale 
financial assets’. 100 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
18. Interests in Associates
The Group’s associated undertakings at the period end are:
Name
Place of 
incorporation 
and operation
Proportion of 
ownership 
interest
Proportion of 
voting power 
held 
Method of 
Accounting for 
investment
Classified Periodicals Ltd England 50% 50%
Equity
method
The aggregate amounts relating to associates are:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Total assets 47 47
Total liabilities (3) (3)
Revenues – 26
Profit after tax – 2
19. Assets Classiﬁed as Held for Sale 
Note
Freehold
 land and 
buildings 
£’000
Leasehold 
buildings 
£’000
Plant and 
Machinery 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 28 December 2013 22,866 824 3,577 27,267
Disposals (19,146) (120) (3,356) (22,622)
Transfers in from property, plant and equipment 16 1,817 2,444 1,678 5,939
Exchange differences (39) (52) – (91)
At 3 January 2015 5,498 3,096 1,899 10,493
Depreciation
At 28 December 2013 16,526 788 3,328 20,642
Disposals (13,385) (80) (3,282) (16,747)
Write-down in carrying value 38 230 32 300
Transfers in from property, plant and equipment 16 1,226 2,208 1,639 5,073
Exchange differences (21) (55) – (76)
At 3 January 2015 4,384 3,091 1,717 9,192
Carrying amount
At 28 December 2013 6,340 36 249 6,625
At 3 January 2015 1,114 5 182 1,301
Assets classified as held for sale consists of land and buildings in the UK and Republic of Ireland that are no longer in use by the Group and print 
presses that have ceased production. All of the assets are being marketed for sale and are expected to be sold within the next year.
Non-current assets are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through disposal 
and a sale is considered likely. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of sale. 
20. Inventories
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013
 £’000
Raw materials 2,543 2,545
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 101 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
21. Other Financial Assets and Liabilities 
Trade and other receivables 
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Current:
Trade receivables 26,938  29,534
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,843)  (2,538)
25,095  26,996
Prepayments 7,146  3,693
Other debtors 5,436  6,029
Total current trade and other receivables 37,677 36,718
Non-current: 2 6
Trade receivables 37,679 36,724
Trade receivables 
The average credit period taken on sales is 44 days (28 December 2013: 39 days). No interest is charged on trade receivables. The Group has provided 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 2. 
Before accepting any new credit customer, the Group obtains a credit check from an external agency to assess the potential customer’s credit quality 
and then defines credit terms and limits on a by-customer basis. These credit terms are reviewed regularly. In the case of one-off customers or low 
value purchases, pre-payment for the goods is required under the Group’s policy. The Group reviews trade receivables past due but not impaired on a 
regular basis and considers, based on past experience, that the credit quality of these amounts at the period end date has not deteriorated since the 
transaction was entered into and so considers the amounts recoverable. Regular contact is maintained with all such customers and, where necessary, 
payment plans are in place to further reduce the risk of default on the receivable. 
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £9.9 million (28 December 2013: £12.6 million) which are past 
due at the reporting date but for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group believes 
that the amounts are still recoverable. The Group does not hold any security over these balances. The weighted average past due period of these 
receivables is 23 days (28 December 2013: 26 days). 
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013
 £’000
0 – 30 days 8,110  9,003
30 – 60 days 1,443  2,956
60 – 90 days 106  236
90+ days 279  378
Total 9,938  12,573
 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
3 January 
2015 
 £’000
28 December 
2013
 £’000
Balance at the beginning of the period 2,538 3,557
Bad debts written off during the year uncollectible (1,009)  (1,510)
Amounts provided for during the year as uncollectible 343  468
Foreign exchange translation gains and losses (29)  23
Movement in the period (Note 8) (695)  (1,019)
Balance at the end of the period 1,843 2,538
 
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit 
was initially granted up to the balance sheet date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. 
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.  102 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
21. Other Financial Assets and Liabilities (continued)
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
Impaired trade receivables are those that have been provided for under the Group’s bad debt provisioning policy, as described in the accounting policy 
in Note 2. The ageing of impaired trade receivables is shown below. 
3 January 
2015 
 £’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
0 – 30 days 558 541
30 – 60 days 262 20
60 – 90 days 283 359
90+ days 740 1,618
Total 1,843 2,538
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date approximate to their fair value. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents totalling £30,817,000 (2013: £29,075,000) comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
Trade and other payables
3 January 
2015 
£’000
Restated
1
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Current:
Trade creditors and accruals
1
30,969 30,154
Accrual for redundancy costs 6,090 20,437
Other creditors 9,849 19,246
Total current trade and other payables 46,908 69,837
Non-current trade and other payables 2 136
¹  Refer to Note 24 for further details.
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 16 days (28 December 2013: 27 days). The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure all payables are paid 
within the agreed credit terms.
The redundancy accrual has been made for terminations agreed ahead of the year end and to be paid during 2015.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables at the balance sheet date approximate to their fair value.
22. Borrowings 
The Group announced on 23 June 2014 that it had successfully completed its Capital Refinancing Plan (announced on 9 May 2014). Gross proceeds of 
£140.0 million were received by the Group in connection with the Placing and the Rights Issue, and further to the announcement made by the Group 
on 14 May 2014, gross proceeds of £220.5 million from the offering of £225.0 million 8.625% senior secured notes due 2019. The notes were issued at 
a discount of £4.5 million. 
All amounts previously outstanding were repaid and cancelled in full; as at 23 June 2014 the Group paid in total £332.9 million of which the total 
Payment-In- Kind (PIK) interest and Make-Whole amounted to £16.5 million and the interest accrued up to 23 June 2014 amounted to £5 million.
In addition, under the Capital Refinancing Plan the Group entered into a 4 year and 6 months (expiring 23 December 2018) £25 million New Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF) which is currently undrawn. The Group incurred a £0.9 million arrangement fee associated with the RCF, which the Group will 
amortise over the term.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 103 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
The borrowings at 3 January 2015 are recorded at quoted market fair value and classified as Level 1 according to IFRS 13. As the borrowings are 
shown at fair value the associated issue costs against the 8.625% Senior secured notes 2019 have been charged to the Income Statement (refer to 
Note 10c). The borrowings at previous period ends were recorded at amortised cost.
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Bank loans – 200,851
Private placement loan notes – 110,994
Payment-In-Kind interest accrual – 20,372
8.625% Senior secured notes 2019
1
215,437 –
Total borrowings excluding term debt issue costs 215,437 332,217
Term debt issue costs – (8,801)
Total borrowings 215,437 323,416
¹  8.625% Senior secured notes 2019 breakdown
3 January 
2015 
£’000
Principal Amount 225,000
Bond discount (4,500)
Fair value gain (5,063)
Total 215,437
The borrowings are disclosed in the financial statements as:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Current borrowings – 8,553
Non-current borrowings 215,437 314,863
Total borrowings 215,437 323,416
The Group’s net debt
2
 is:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Gross borrowings as above 215,437  323,416
Cash and cash equivalents (30,817)  (29,075)
Impact of currency hedge instruments – (1,104)
Net debt including currency hedge instruments 184,620  293,237
Term debt issue costs – 8,801
Net debt excluding term debt issue costs 184,620  302,038
²  Net debt is a non-statutory term presented to show the Group’s borrowings net of cash equivalents, fair value of foreign exchange options and term debt issue costs. 
23. Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Group no longer holds any financial derivatives instruments as the remaining derivatives from 28 December 2013 have expired. These financial 
instruments were classified as Level 2 according to IFRS 13 and valued with reference to prevailing quoted forward exchange rates of the US Dollar to 
the British Pound at the balance sheet date.
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Interest rate caps – current asset – 4
Foreign exchange options – current asset – 1,104
Total derivative financial instruments – 1,108 104 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation
For the purposes of these financial statements, the Group has applied the requirements of the standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised 2011) for 
the period ended 3 January 2015, which introduces changes to the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of post-employment 
benefits. The standard impacts the measurement of various components in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not 
the Group’s total obligation. The standard replaces the finance cost on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets with a net 
finance charge or income, based on the defined benefit liability or asset and the discount rate, measured at the start of the period. This has increased 
the finance charge in the Consolidated Income Statement with an equal and offsetting movement in actuarial gains and losses in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. Refer to the change in accounting treatment section below for further details.
Characteristics of the Group’s pension related liabilities
The Johnston Press Retirement Savings Plan
The Johnston Press Retirement Savings Plan is a defined contribution Master Trust arrangement for current employees, operated by Zurich. Contributions 
by the Group are a percentage of basic salary. Employer contributions range from 1% of basic salary, for employees statutorily enrolled, through to 12% of 
basic salary for Senior Executives. Employees who were active members of the Money Purchase section of the Johnston Press Pension Plan on 31 August 
2013 transferred from the Johnston Press Pension Plan to the Johnston Press Retirement Savings Plan from 1 September 2013.
The Johnston Press Pension Plan
The Johnston Press Pension Plan is a defined benefit pension plan closed to new members and closed to future accrual. There was formerly a defined 
contribution section of the Johnston Press Pension Plan which was closed in August 2013 and members’ benefits were transferred to the Johnston Press 
Retirement Savings Plan. The assets of the Plan are held separately from those of the Group. The contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on 
the basis of a triennial valuation using the projected unit method and are set out in a Schedule of Contributions and Recovery Plan dated 29 July 2014.
A valuation of the Johnston Press Pension Plan as at 31 December 2012 was commissioned by the Trustees and takes account of the Capital 
Refinancing Plan.
In conjunction with the Capital Refinancing Plan, the Plan Trustees and the Group entered into a Pension Framework Agreement, agreeing, 
inter alia to the following:
• On implementation of the Capital Refinancing Plan in June 2014, the secured guarantee provided in favour of the Plan Trustees by the Group and 
certain of its subsidiaries in relation to any default on a payment obligation under the Johnston Press Pension Plan has been removed. In return for 
the removal of this security and the aforementioned guarantee, an unsecured cross-guarantee has been provided on implementation of the Capital 
Refinancing Plan by the Group and certain of its subsidiaries in favour of the Plan Trustees in relation to any default on a payment obligation under 
the Johnston Press Pension Plan. Each claim made under the unsecured cross-guarantee is capped at an amount equal to the aggregate S75 debt 
of the Johnston Press Pension Plan at the date any claim made by the Plan Trustees falls due.
• The deficit as at the 31 December 2012 valuation date will be sought to be addressed by 31 December 2024 by entry into a recovery plan providing 
for contributions starting at £6.3 million in 2014, £6.5 million in 2015 and £10.0 million in 2016 increasing by 3% per annum with a final payment of 
£12.7 million in 2024.
• Settlement of previously incurred PPF levies and Section 75 debts.
• The Johnston Press Pension Plan will be entitled to receive 25% of net proceeds from business or asset disposals up to and including 31 August 
2015 exceeding £1 million in a single transaction or £2.5 million over the course of a financial year, subject to certain permitted disposals, conditions 
in relation to financial leverage and other exceptions set out in the Framework Agreement.
• The Group will also pay additional contributions to the Johnston Press Pension Plan in the event that the 2014/2015 PPF levy and/or the 2015/2016 
PPF levy is less than £3.2 million, equal to the amount the levy falls below £3.2 million, up to a maximum of £2.5 million.
• Additional contributions will also be payable to the Johnston Press Pension Plan in the event that the Group satisfies certain conditions in relation to 
financial leverage.
The Group paid 25% of net proceeds from the sale of its Republic of Ireland titles to the pension plan in September 2014.
This funding agreement needs to be reflected in the valuation documentation of the Johnston Press Pension Plan, which must be submitted to the 
Pensions Regulator who may exercise certain powers if it is not compliant with the relevant legislation. If the Johnston Press Pension Plan’s funding 
position deteriorates after successful implementation of the Capital Refinancing Plan then the contributions may have to be revisited and additional 
contributions to the Johnston Press Pension Plan may be required and/or the length over which the deficit is addressed may be increased. 
Contributions would ordinarily only be revisited in the context of the triennial valuation of the Johnston Press Pension Plan, although the Plan Trustees 
have power to call a valuation earlier if they resolve to do so.
Irish Pension Schemes
In addition, the Group maintains liability for two defined benefit schemes providing benefits for a small number of former employees in Limerick and 
Leinster. Both schemes have been closed to future accrual since 2010 and are in the final stages of being wound up.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 105 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Change in accounting treatment (adoption of IAS 19R and impact of Pension Protection Levy/ Section 75 contributions)
Changes in accounting treatment have been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements retrospectively and the impact on the Consolidated 
Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income for the period ending 28 December 2013 is as follows:
Impact on income statement
28 December 
2013
£’000
As reported – consolidated loss for the period (211,966)
IAS 19R – Increase in net finance charges
1
(3,870)
Pension protection fund contribution
2
(6,347)
Effect of accrual reversal – Pension Protection Levy and Section 75 debt
2
5,676
Deferred tax
3
909
As restated – consolidated loss for the period (215,598)
¹  As a result of the adoption of IAS 19R, the Group records a higher net expense within the income statement of £3.9 million for the period ended 28 December 2013. 
²  The Group was required to pay a Pension Protection levy in relation to the 2012/2013 and 2013/2014 years amounting to £6.3 million. An accrual of £4.4 million for the levy and  
£1.3 million for Section 75 debt was created in the 2013 year to meet this liability. This was incorrect as the pension trustees had already accounted for the Pension Protection levy on 
behalf of the Group. In addition, the Section 75 debt should not have been accrued for by the Group. The 2013 comparatives have been restated accordingly to reflect the timing of all 
cash flows and the reversal of the excess pension accruals.
³  Tax credit of £1,744,000 as a result of restatements for IAS19R and Pension Protection Levy inflows/outflows offset by tax charge of £835,000 as a result of accrual reversals for Pension 
Protection Levy and Section 75 debt. 
Other comprehensive income – gain on pension
28 December 
2013
£’000
As reported – Actuarial gain recognised net of tax 30,156
1
As reported – Difference between actual and expected return (30,338)
IAS 19R – Gains/losses on plan assets in excess of interest 34,208 
IAS 19R – Net finance charges
2
3,870 
Pension protection fund contribution
3
4,847 
Other comprehensive income – net decrease 8,717 
As restated – Actuarial gain recognised 38,873
Deferred tax on pension remeasurements (1,744)
As restated – Actuarial gain recognised net of tax 37,129
¹  Actuarial gain recognised net of tax of £29,025,000 plus additional deferred tax asset arising from changes in tax rate of £1,131,000.
²  As a result of the adoption of IAS 19R, the Group records a higher net expense within the income statement of £3.9 million for the period ended 28 December 2013.
³  Reflects an outflow of £6.3 million relating to PPF invoices 12/13 and 13/14 paid by the pension fund on behalf of the Group. During the period October to December 2013, the Group 
reimbursed the pension fund for this by £1.5 million resulting in a net other comprehensive income impact of £4.8 million.  106 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation (continued)
Amounts arising from pensions related liabilities in the Group’s financial statements
The following tables identify the amounts in the Group’s financial statements arising from its pension related liabilities. 
Income statement – pensions and other pension related liabilities costs
Notes
3 January 
2015
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Employment costs:
Defined contribution scheme 8 (4,425) (4,322)
Defined benefit scheme
Plan expenses (IAS19R)
1
(1,217) –
Pension protection fund
2
6 (2,038) (6,347)
Net finance cost on Johnston Press Pension Plan (IAS19R) 10a (3,330) (5,446)
Total defined benefit scheme (6,585) (11,793)
Total pension costs (11,010) (16,115)
¹  Relates to administrative expenses incurred in managing the pension fund amounting to £1,217,000 (£837,000 recognised within operating items before exceptional items and 
£380,000 recognised within operating exceptional items). Plan expenses were paid via the defined contribution scheme for period ended 28 December 2013, as a result there is no 
comparative figure.
²  Relates to the payment of £2,718,000 to the Pension Protection Fund for the period April 14 to March 15. £2,038,000 has been recognised in Note 6 – Income Statement, Exceptionals 
with the remaining £680,000 in prepayments (refer Note 21 – Other Financial Assets and Liabilities).
Other comprehensive income – (loss)/gain on pension
3 January 
2015
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Gains/(losses) on plan assets in excess of interest 48,120  39,055
Experience gains and losses arising on the benefit obligation (1,838) (6,116)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the benefit obligation (65,261) 13,473
Additional defined benefit obligation under IFRIC 14 (2,971) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (21,950) 46,412
Deferred tax 4,390 (9,283)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income net of tax (17,560) 37,129
Statement of financial position – net defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus 
3 January 
2015
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Amounts included in the Group Statement of Financial Position:
Fair value of scheme assets 480,479  420,306
Present value of defined benefit obligations (567,509) (498,640)
Additional defined benefit obligation under IFRIC 14 (2,971) –
Total liability recognised (90,001) (78,334)
Amount included in current liabilities 6,489 5,700
Amount included in non-current liabilities (83,512) (72,634)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 107 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Analysis of amounts recognised of the net defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Net defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus at beginning of period (78,334) (121,319)
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of period (498,640) (504,111)
Income statement:
Interest cost (22,706) (22,227)
Other comprehensive income:
Experience (gains) and losses (1,838) (6,116)
Remeasurements of defined benefit obligation:
 arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1,536 25,849
 arising from changes in financial assumptions (66,797) (12,376) 
Cash flows:
Age related rebates – (511)
Benefits paid (by fund and Group) 20,936 20,852
Defined benefit obligation at end of the period (567,509) (498,640)
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 420,306  382,792
Income statement:
Interest income on plan assets 19,376 16,781
Pension Protection Fund payments – (6,347)
Administration costs (837) –
Other comprehensive income:
Return on plan assets less gain 48,120 39,055
Cash flows:
Company contributions
1
14,450 8,366
Age-related rebates – 511
Benefits paid (by fund and Group) (20,936) (20,852)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 480,479  420,306
Additional defined benefit obligation under IFRIC 14 (2,971) –
Net defined benefit pension (deficit)/surplus at end of period (90,001) (78,334)
¹  Comprises annual employer contributions of £6,300,000 (28 December 2013: £5,700,000), contributions in respect of property disposals of £456,000 (28 December 2013: £1,166,000), 
contributions in respect of Irish title disposals of £1,280,000 (28 December 2013: £nil), plan expenses of £907,000 (28 December 2013: £nil), pension protection fund contributions of 
£4,239,000 (28 December 2013: £1,500,000) and S75 debt contributions of £1,268,000 (28 December 2013: £nil).
Analysis of fair value of plan assets
3 January 
2015
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Equities 67,283 268,394
Multi-Asset Credit 99,678 67,507
Diversified Growth Funds 152,231 –
Liability Driven Investments 148,075 –
Other
1
13,212 84,405
Total fair value of plan assets 480,479 420,306
¹  Other mainly includes cash and Protected Rights Funds.
Following extensive discussions with the pension trustees, Pension Regulator and the Group, it has been agreed that the mix of investments should be 
split 50% growth allocation and 50% protection allocation. 108 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation (continued)
Analysis of financial assumptions
3 January 
2015
£’000
28 December 
2013
£’000
Discount rate 3.55% 4.65%
Future pension increases
 Deferred revaluations (where linked to inflation (CPI)) 1.75% 2.40%
 Pensions in payment (where linked to inflation (RPI)) 2.85% 3.25%
Future life expectancy
 Male currently aged 65 22.0 years 22.1 years
 Female currently aged 65 23.9 years 24.1 years
Sensitivity analysis of significant assumptions
The following tables present a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been 
affected, by changes in the relevant actuarial assumptions that were reasonably possible at the reporting date.
Changes in 
defined 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Discount rate
+0.10% discount rate (9,082)
Inflation rate
+0.10% inflation rate 5,350
Mortality
+10.0% to base table mortality rates (15,883)
Pension Increase Exchange
Allowance for 25% take up for sections where automatically offered 642
The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, therefore interdependencies between 
assumptions are excluded. The methodology applied is consistent to that used to determine the recognised pension liability.
Other pension related obligations 
The Group has agreed to pay the expenses of the Johnston Press Pension Plan and the Pension Protection Fund (‘PPF’) levy as they fall due. Any 
funding agreement needs to be reflected in the valuation documentation of the Johnston Press Pension Plan, which must be formally submitted to the 
Pensions Regulator who may exercise certain powers if it is not compliant with the relevant legislation. 
The Group has entered into a flexible apportionment arrangement with the agreement of the Plan Trustees which will result in a decrease in the 
2015/2016 PPF levy charge. The Group expects to see the full benefit of reduced levy charges in 2016/2017, when the increased pension 
contributions commence.
The Johnston Press Pension Plan (the “Plan”) is subject to a potential increase in its liabilities in the event that historic benefit equalisation has not taken 
effect for a specific group of members. The Group’s lawyers have advised that an application to court should be made for a declaration that normal 
retirement dates for these members were validly equalised as intended, and currently anticipate a successful outcome in the case. The Group is aiming 
to issue an application to court in early 2015 with the expectation that the hearing would take place during the year. No provision has been made in 
the Group’s assessed pension deficit or financial statements. Based on advice to the Trustees of the Plan, the Group anticipates the maximum 
obligation in relation to this matter (in the event that the court application is not successful) is expected to be in the region of £8 million.
IFRIC 14 
As at 3 January 2015, the Group was liable to an IFRIC 14 liability of £90.0 million as the cash contributions agreed as part of the Recovery Plan dated 
29 July 2014 were greater than the level of deficit recorded. The contributions were discounted by applying a discount rate of 3.55% resulting in an 
additional liability recognition of £2,971,000.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 109 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Five year history:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
Restated
1
28 December 
2013 
£’000
29 December 
2012 
£’000
31 December 
2011 
£’000
1 January 
2011 
£’000
Fair value of scheme assets 480,479  420,306 382,792 368,718 385,309
Present value of defined benefit obligations (567,509) (498,640) (504,111) (472,708) (446,095)
Additional obligation under IFRIC 14 (2,971) – – – –
Deficit in the plan (90,001) (78,334) (121,319) (103,990) (60,786)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amount (£’000) (67,099) 7,357 (29,332) (22,524) 2,925
Percentage of plan liabilities (%) (11.8%) 1.5% (5.8%) (4.8%) 0.7%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
1
Amounts (£’000) 48,120 39,055 8,257 (27,060) 11,139
Percentage of plan assets (%) 10.0% 9.3% 2.2% (7.3%) 2.9%
¹  The adoption of IAS19R has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting policies section for further details. 
25. Deferred Tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior  
reporting periods.
Share-based
 payments 
£’000
Properties
 not eligible 
£’000
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
 £’000
Intangible 
assets 
£’000
Pension
 balances
1
£’000
Other
timing 
differences
1
 £’000
Total 
£’000
At 29 December 2012 – 10,944 5,342 172,786 (27,903) (585) 160,584
(Credit)/charge to income statement (202) (4,392) (9,909) (41,667) (788) (76) (57,034)
Credit to equity (20) – – – 10,646 – 10,626
Reduction in tax rate – income statement – (801) 584 (22,972) 3,742 86 (19,361)
Reduction in tax rate – equity – – – – (1,392) – (1,392)
Currency movements – – (1) 189 – – 188
At 28 December 2013 (222) 5,751 (3,984) 108,336 (15,695) (575) 93,611
(Credit)/charge to income statement 58 (987) (1,925) (6,041) 1,768 (788) (7,915)
Credit to equity 25 – – – (4,390) – (4,365)
Currency movements – – – 21 – 21
At 3 January 2015 (139) 4,764 (5,909) 102,316 (18,317) (1,363) 81,352
¹  2013 pension balances and other timing differences have been restated for the effects of IAS19R and reversal of Pension Protection Levy and Section 75 debt, as disclosed in Note 24.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (before offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013
 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities 107,078 114,087
Deferred tax assets (25,726) (20,476)
81,352 93,611
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant. 110 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
26. Provisions
Onerous 
leases 
and 
dilapidations 
£’000
Newspaper 
Society 
Pension 
Scheme
 £’000
 
Other pension 
related 
liabilities
 £’000
Total
 £’000
At 28 December 2013 4,248 – 1,852 6,100
Charge to income statement 304 783 – 1,087
Actuarial valuation loss
1
– – 31 31
Utilisation of provision (884) – (57) (941)
At 3 January 2015 3,668 783 1,826 6,277
The provisions are disclosed in the financial statements as:
Current provisions 1,997 90 – 2,087
Non-current provisions 1,671 693 1,826 4,190
Total provisions 3,668 783 1,826 6,277
¹  Actuarial loss of £31,000 relates to the unfunded pension scheme.
Onerous leases and dilapidations
Where the Group exits a rented property, an estimate of the anticipated total future cost payable under the terms of the operating lease, including 
rentals, rates and other related expenses is provided for at the point of exit as an onerous lease.
Under the terms of a number of property leases, the Group is required to return the property to its original condition at the lease expiry date.  
The Group has estimated the expected costs of leases expiring or expected to be terminated and has also assessed the entire portfolio and made 
provisions depending on the state of the property and the duration of the lease and likely rectification requirements.
All amounts are expected to be utilised within the next ten years.
Newspaper Society Pension Scheme
The Group is a member of the Newspaper Society (the “Society”), an unincorporated body representing the interests of local newspaper publishers. 
During the period, the Society incorporated itself as a company limited by guarantee and entered into a merger with the Newspaper Publishers’ 
Association (a body representing the interests of publishers of national newspapers). As part of the merger, existing members entered into a deed of 
covenant in respect of the deficit to the Society’s defined benefit pension scheme. The members agreed to make contributions over a period of 25 years 
or until such time as the deficit has been addressed. Applying a discount rate of 12%, the Group’s best estimate of this at present value is £0.8 million.
Other pension related liabilities
The closing provision relates to unfunded pensions of £1.4 million (28 December 2013: £1.4 million), post-retirement medical benefit pension related 
liabilities for former Portsmouth and Sunderland members of £0.2 million (28 December 2013: £0.2 million) and the Limerick Leader pension scheme 
of £0.2 million (28 December 2013: £0.2 million).
The unfunded pension provision and the Limerick Leader pension schemes are assessed by a qualified actuary at each period end. 
On 6 January 2015, the Trustees of the Limerick Leader Plan accepted the offer of additional funding to the Plan in consideration for the Trustees 
agreeing to proceed to wind up the Plan. The total amount of this additional funding is Euro 320,000. The transaction costs provision estimated as part 
of the disposal of the Republic of Ireland operations (refer Note 12) carries part of this provision. 
The post retirement health costs represent management’s estimate of the liability concerned.
27. Share Capital 
The Group underwent two share capital reorganisations in the 2014 year; a Placing and Rights Issue which was announced on 9 May and completed 
on 29 May (as part of the “Capital Refinancing Plan” which the Group announced was completed on 23 June) followed by a sub-division and 
consolidation of its ordinary share capital announced on 24 October and completed on 13 November.
Placing and Rights Issue
As part of the Placing and Rights issue, total gross proceeds of £140.0 million were received by the Group, approximately £2.3 million through a Placing of 
13,676,149 new placing shares at 17.0 pence per share (the “Placing Shares”) and £137.7 million through the issue of 4,589,889,334 new ordinary shares 
at 3.0 pence (the “Issue Price”) per share (“Rights Issue Ordinary Shares”) on the basis of 6.52 Rights Issue Ordinary Shares for each existing ordinary share 
as at close of business on 27 May 2014 (“Existing Ordinary Shares”). As the Issue Price per Rights Issue Ordinary Share was below the nominal value of the 
Existing Ordinary Shares (of 10 pence per share) the Group implemented a sub-division of each Existing Ordinary Share into one ordinary share of one 
penny nominal value (“Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares”) and one Deferred Share with very limited rights of nine pence nominal value each (the “Capital 
Reorganisation”). The Capital Reorganisation and allotment of shares in respect of the Rights Issue were approved by the shareholders at a general 
meeting of the Group held on 27 May 2014 in order to implement the Capital Refinancing Plan. Following completion of the Placing and Rights Issue, the 
number of Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares in issue was 5,293,860,091. In addition 690,294,608 Deferred Shares were in issue.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 111 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Share Consolidation
On 24 October 2014, the Group announced the sub-division and consolidation of every 50 of the Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares into one new 
ordinary share (each a “New Ordinary Share”) in order to reduce the number of shares in issue (the “Share Capital Reorganisation”). The share 
consolidation exercise was structured so as to retain the nominal value of one penny each per New Ordinary Share, which allows the Group to retain 
the flexibility which a lower nominal value provides.
The Share Capital Reorganisation exercise consisted of:
• a sub-division of each Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares of one penny each into one intermediate ordinary share of 1/50 pence each and one 
second class deferred share (“Second Class Deferred Share”) of 49/50 pence each;
• immediately thereafter, a consolidation of every 50 intermediate ordinary shares of 1/50 pence each into one New Ordinary Share of one penny each;
• the aggregation of fractional entitlements resulting from the consolidation (where any individual shareholding were not exactly divisible by 50) into 
New Ordinary Shares and the sale of such aggregated fractional entitlements in the market after the Share Capital Reorganisation became effective;
• the amendment of the Company’s Articles to set out the rights and restrictions attaching to the Second Class Deferred Shares; and
• the amendment of the rules of the share schemes to reflect the impact of the Capital Refinancing Plan and the Share Capital Reorganisation in 
relation to the calculation of dilution limits under those share schemes.
The Share Capital Reorganisation was approved by shareholders at a general meeting on 12 November 2014 and became effective on 13 November 
2014. Immediately prior to the approval of the Share Capital Reorganisation by shareholders, the Group issued 15 Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares 
such that the total number of shares of the Company in issue was exactly divisible by 50.
Share capital reorganisation movements
The table below illustrates the analysis of share capital as a result of both capital reorganisations.
Ordinary Shares 
No of shares
Nominal Price
 per share £’000
Opening balance 28 December 2013 684,352,165 0.10 68,435
Cash generated through exercises under the Group share schemes
1
1,108,705 0.10 111
Cash generated through exercise of share warrants
1
4,833,738 0.10 483
Closing balance pre Capital Refinancing Plan (as at 27 May 2014) 690,294,608 0.10 69,029
Capital reorganisation on 27 May 2014 – sub-division of shares
2
690,294,608 0.01 6,902
Placing shares
3
13,676,149 0.01 137
Rights issue
3
4,589,889,334 0.01 45,899
Closing balance post-rights issue 5,293,860,091 0.01 52,938
Cash generated through exercises under the Group share schemes 28,744 0.01 –
Allotment of shares to effect share consolidation 15 0.01 –
Closing balance pre Share Capital Reorganisation 5,293,888,850 0.01 52,938
Capital reorganisation on 12 November 2014 – sub-division of shares (creation of intermediate ordinary 
shares of 1/50 pence each and Second Class Deferred Shares)
4
5,293,888,850 0.0002 1,059
Share consolidation (of every 50 intermediate ordinary shares into 1 New Ordinary Share)
5
105,877,777 0.01 1,059
Closing balance 3 January 2015 105,877,777 0.01 1,059 112 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
27. Share Capital (continued)
Deferred Shares 
No of shares
Nominal price
 per share £’000
Opening balance 28 December 2013 – – –
Capital reorganisation on 27 May 2014 – sub-division of existing ordinary shares
2
690,294,608 0.09 62,126
Closing balance 3 January 2015 690,294,608 0.09 62,126
Second Class Deferred Shares
6
 
No of shares
Nominal price
 per share £’000
Opening balance 28 December 2013 – – –
Capital Reorganisation on 12 November 2014 – sub-division and consolidation of shares
4
5,293,888,850 0.0098 51,880
Closing balance 3 January 2015 5,293,888,850 0.0098 51,880
Preference Shares
No of shares
Nominal price
 per share £’000
Opening balance 28 December 2013 and Closing Balance 3 January 2015 1,105,600 1.00 1,106
¹  Share scheme option and share warrant exercises generated a net cash inflow of £658,000 (refer to cash flow statement). Issue of share capital generated £594,000 and issue of share 
premium generated £64,000 (refer Note 28).
²  In total generated 690,294,608 shares at £69,029,461. Capital reorganisation occurred whereby each Existing Ordinary Share of 10p nominal value was subdivided into one Post-Rights 
Issue Ordinary Share of 1p and one Deferred Share of 9p. 
³  The Group’s Capital Refinancing Plan raised gross proceeds of £2,325,000 through a placing of 13,676,149 Placing Shares at a placing price of 17p and £137,697,000 through the issue 
of 4,589,889,334 new ordinary shares (on the basis of a 6.52 for 1 rights issue) at 3p per Rights Issue Ordinary Share. This raised gross proceeds of £140,022,000 (refer to the cash flow 
statement for further details). Placing proceeds of £2,325,000 were generated from the issue of share capital of £137,000 and share premium of £2,188,000 (refer to Note 28). Rights 
issue proceeds of £137,697,000 generated comprised the issue of share capital £45,899,000 and share premium £91,798,000 (refer to Note 28). 
⁴  Prior to the Share Capital Reorganisation, the Group sub-divided each existing ordinary shares of one penny each into one intermediate ordinary share of 1/50 pence each and 
one Second Class Deferred Share of 49/50 pence each.
⁵  Consolidation of every 50 Post-Rights Issue Ordinary Shares 5,293,888,850 in total into 1 resulting in the creation of 105,877,777 new Ordinary Shares.
⁶  The Deferred Shares created on the Capital Reorganisation becoming effective will have no voting or dividend rights and, on a return of capital on a winding up, will have no valuable 
economic rights. No share certificates have been issued in respect of the Deferred Shares.
In summary:
3 January
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Issued
Ordinary Shares 
105,877,777 ordinary shares of 1p each (28 December 2013: 684,352,165 ordinary shares of 10p each) 1,059 68,435
Total ordinary shares 1,059 68,435
Deferred Shares
690,294,608 deferred shares of 9p each 62,126 –
Second Class Deferred Shares
5,293,888,850 deferred shares of 0.98p each 51,880 –
Total Deferred Shares and Second Class Deferred Shares 114,006 –
Preference Shares
756,000 13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each 756 756
349,600 13.75% ‘A’ Preference Shares of £1 each 350 350
Total preference shares 1,106 1,106
Total issued share capital 116,171 69,541
The Group has only one class of ordinary shares which has no right to fixed income. All the Preference Shares carry the right, subject to the discretion 
of the Group to distribute profits, to a fixed dividend of 13.75% and rank in priority to the ordinary shares. Given the discretionary nature of the 
dividend right, the preference shares are considered to be equity under IAS 32.
As disclosed in our 2013 Annual Report the Directors were advised that certain distributions made on the 13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares and 
13.75% ‘A’ Preference Shares in financial years ending 28 December 2013, 29 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 and in the period ended June 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 113 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
2012 had been made without fully complying with the relevant requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
At the Group’s Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2014 and at reconvened meetings of the holders of 13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares and 
13.75% ‘A’ Cumulative Preference Shares held on 16 July 2014, a special resolution was approved to ratify the dividend payments and as a result the 
Group and Directors have been released of any obligation associated with the breach of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of these dividends.
Share warrants
The Company has issued share warrants over 12.5% of its issued share capital to lenders (with 5.0% issued 28 August 2009, 2.5% issued 24 April 2012 and 
5.0% issued 21 September 2012). All of the share warrants have an exercise price of 10p and expire 30 September 2017. The warrant instruments will be 
settled by the Company delivering a fixed number of ordinary shares and receiving a fixed amount of cash in return and so qualify as equity under IAS 39. 
The Binomial Option pricing model was used to assess the fair value of the share warrants issued in the financial year that they were issued.
During the period, 4,833,738 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued following the exercise of share warrants, generating £483,374 of cash for the Group. 
Each of the placing and rights issue forming part of the Capital Refinancing Plan and the Share Capital Reorganisation constituted an “Adjustment 
Event” for the purposes of the warrants, as a result of which the number of warrants were adjusted pursuant to adjustment provisions in the respective 
Warrants Instruments governing their terms. 39,359,979 warrants were outstanding prior to the announcement of the Capital Refinancing Plan. In 
accordance with the terms of the Warrants, the Adjustment Event resulted in each warrant giving the holder the right to subscribe for 7.6689949 
ordinary shares at an exercise price of £0.03949 per share. The warrants were subsequently further adjusted following the Share Capital 
Reorganisation. As a consequence, the number of warrants outstanding at the balance sheet date was 30,359,979 with each warrant giving the holder 
the right to subscribe for 0.1533799 ordinary shares at an exercise price of £1.9745 per share.
28. Share Premium 
3 January 
2015
£’000
Opening balance 28 December 2013 502,829
Share premium generated under the Group savings related share option scheme
1
64
Placing shares
2
2,188
Rights issue
2
91,798
Capitalised costs associated with raising new capital (9,181)
Fractional shares
3
4
Total movement 84,873
Closing balance 3 January 2015 587,702
¹  Share option and share warrant exercises generated a net cash inflow of £658,000 (refer cash flow statement). Issue of share capital generated £594,000 (refer Note 27) and issue of 
share premium generated £64,000.
²  The Group’s Capital Refinancing Plan raised gross proceeds of £2,325,000 through a placing of 13,676,149 new placing shares at a placing price of 17p and £137,697,000 through the 
issue of 4,589,889,334 new ordinary shares (on the basis of a 6.52 for 1 rights issue) at 3p per Rights Issue Ordinary Share (refer Note 27). This in total generated a capital injection of 
£140,022,000 (refer to cash flow statement). Proceeds from the placing shares of £2,325,000 were generated from the issue of share capital of £137,000 (refer Note 27) together with 
share premium of £2,188,000. Rights issue proceeds of £137,697,000 were generated from the issue of share capital £45,899,000 (refer Note 27) and share premium of £91,798,000.
³  As a result of the Share Capital Reorganisation exercise (refer Note 27); where an individual shareholding was not exactly divisible by 50, the Share Capital Reorganisation generated an 
entitlement to a fraction of a New Ordinary Share. Fractional entitlements were aggregated to form whole New Ordinary Shares which were sold in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association resulting in proceeds of £4,000. Under relevant regulatory provisions, the Group was not required to distribute the net proceeds of 
such a sale to the relevant shareholders and as a result of the disproportionate costs of doing so the Board determined that it was not in the Group’s best interest to do so and those 
proceeds were instead retained for the benefit of the Group. Refer to the cash flow statement.
As detailed in Note 27, the Group completed its Capital Refinancing Plan on 23 June 2014. The costs associated with raising new equity amounted to 
£9.2 million and have been recognised against share premium.
At the Group’s Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2014, a special resolution was approved to initiate a process to reduce the Group’s share premium 
account by £275 million which was subsequently effected. Refer to Note 43 for further details on the effect of the capital reduction. 
The Group has lodged a petition with the Court of Session seeking approval of the reduction of the Group’s share premium account of £275 million to 
eliminate the accumulated deficit on the profit and loss account and create distributable reserves for the Group going forward. 114 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
29. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement 
Notes
3 January
 2015 
£’000
Restated
1,2
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Operating profit/(loss) 10,713 (245,678)
Adjustments for exceptional items:
Non cash exceptional items:
Impairment of publishing titles 6 21,568 202,427
Write-down of print presses
3
6 2,667 63,695
Write-down in carrying value of assets held for sale 6 300 4,671
Exceptional protection fund contribution 6 2,038 6,347
Exceptional refinancing bonus 6 3,911 –
Exceptional legal and other professional fees 6 – 3,989
Exceptional redundancy costs 6 7,320 24,444
Cash exceptional items:
Exceptional legal and other professional fees (1,169) (2,820)
Exceptional redundancy costs (17,210) (6,624)
Exceptional protection fund contribution 6,24 (2,718) –
Adjustments for non cash items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 194 209
Depreciation charges 5,306 7,497
Charge for share-based payments 31  907 507
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,979) (1,266)
Pensions administrative expenses 837 –
Currency differences (34) (148)
Operating items before working capital changes:
Net pension funding contributions – cash 24  (14,450) (8,366)
Movement in long-term provisions 613 499
Cash generated from operations before workings capital changes 18,814 49,383
Working capital changes:
Decrease in inventories 2 305
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (2,528) 4,753
Decrease in payables (9,970) (296)
Cash generated from operations after working capital changes 6,318 54,145
Adjustment for one-off items:
Net pension funding contributions
Annual contribution 24 6,300 5,700
Pension protection fund contribution 24  4,239 1,500
S75 debt 24  1,268 –
Property disposals 24  456 1,166
Irish title disposals 24  1,280 –
Plan expenses 24 907 –
One-off adjustment – net pensions funding contributions 24 14,450 8,366
Redundancy costs
Non cash exceptional redundancy costs 6 (7,320) (24,444)
Cash exceptional redundancy costs 17,210 6,624
One-off adjustment – redundancy costs 9,890 (17,820)
Termination of News International printing contract 6 – (10,000)
Cash generated from operations after working capital changes and adjustment for one-off items 30,658 34,691
Adjustments for one-off items:
Net pensions funding contributions (14,450) (8,366)
Redundancy costs (9,890) 17,820
Termination of News International printing contract – 10,000
Cash generated from operations 6,318 54,145
¹  The adoption of IAS19R and the correction of a prior year over accrual has affected the measurement and presentation of pension related gains and losses. Refer to the Accounting 
policies section and Note 24 for further details.
²  Comparative income statement information has been restated to show the Republic of Ireland business as a discontinued operation due to its disposal on 1 April 2014.
³  Includes £1,500,000 relating to the Sheffield property which has a redundant press hall in its basement and £1,167,000 of redundant assets in Score Press Limited (2013: £63,695,000 
relates to write down of the presses).
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Statement of Financial Position) comprise cash at bank 
and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 115 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
30. Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities
Lease commitments
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating leases in respect of motor vehicles and land and buildings, the payments for which extend over 
a period of years.
3 January 
2015
 £’000
28 December 
2013
 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 6,690 6,927
At the period end date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which 
fall due as follows:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Within one year 6,024 5,951
In the second to fifth years inclusive 18,020 16,905
After five years 23,901 25,415
Total future minimum lease payments 47,945 48,271
The Group has entered into agreements with certain printers for periods up to 2015 at competitive prices and to secure supply. At the period end, the 
commitment to purchase printing capacity over this period was £0.6 million (2013: £1.8 million).
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties and motor vehicle fleet. Leases are negotiated for 
an average term of 10 years in the case of properties and 4 years for vehicles. The rents payable under property leases are subject to renegotiation at 
various intervals specified in the lease contracts. The Group pays insurance, maintenance and repairs of these properties. The rents payable for the 
vehicle fleet are fixed for the full rental period. 
Assets pledged as security 
Under the new capital refinancing agreement completed on 23 June 2014, the Group and all its material subsidiaries have entered into new security 
arrangements in connection with the new bond issued and the new revolving credit facility. The security provided includes fixed and floating charges 
over all or substantially all of the assets of certain members of the Group and share security over shares of certain members of the Group.
Contingent liabilities
Johnston Press Pension Plan 
The Johnston Press Pension Plan (the “Plan”) is subject to a potential increase in its liabilities in the event that historic benefit equalisation has not taken 
effect for a specific group of members. The Group’s lawyers have advised that an application to court be should made for a declaration that normal 
retirement dates for these members were validly equalised as intended, and currently anticipate a successful outcome in the case. The Group is in the 
process of finalising an application to court which it expects to be submitted shortly with the expectation that the hearing would take place during the 
year. No provision has been made in the Group’s assessed pension deficit or financial statements. Based on advice to the trustees of the Plan, the 
Group anticipates the maximum obligation in relation to this matter (in the event that the court application is not successful) is expected to be in the 
region of £8 million.
Iconic Newspapers Limited
On 1 April 2014, the Group entered into a sale agreement with Iconic Newspaper Limited for the sale of the trade and assets of the Group’s regional 
newspapers in the Republic of Ireland, including its Donegal titles, for £7.1 million. As a condition to the sale, Johnston Press plc agreed to provide a 
guarantee in respect of the performance of certain obligations of the entities within the Group making the disposal of the trade and assets up to a 
maximum aggregate limit of £3 million. That guarantee will be effective for up to 36 months following completion of the sale. 116 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
31. Share-based Payments
Group Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme. This has been approved by the Inland Revenue and allows options to be granted to 
eligible employees who save amounts deducted from post-tax income monthly under arrangements with the relevant plan managers for a period of 
either 3, 5 or 7 years. The Savings-Related Share Option Schemes up to and including 2010 are operated by Computershare Plan Managers. The 2013 
scheme is operated by Yorkshire Building Society and under a change in HMRC rules is for a period of 3 or 5 years. The right to exercise is at the 
discretion of the employee within six months following the end of the period of saving.
Options outstanding under the Savings-Related Scheme at the period end:
3 January 2015
1
Reported 28 December 2013
Option grant date
Number of
shares
Issue price 
per share
Number of
 shares
Issue price 
per share
29 September 2006 – – 13,278 224.76p
29 September 2006 – – 4,002 228.80p
27 September 2007 992 3263.40p 24,259 226.41p
27 September 2007 – – 2,566 220.17p
26 September 2008 5,361 541.95p 709,488 37.60p
26 September 2008 – – 16,655 37.60p
25 September 2009 28,729 412.22p 501,358 28.60p
25 September 2009 – – 37,699 28.60p
28 September 2010 91,762 227.01p 4,446,570 15.75p
28 September 2010 – – 11,459 15.75p
27 September 2013 738,091 191.34p 13,041,770 13.28p
31 October 2013 – – 73,327 12.04p
¹  During the period the Group undertook a Capital Refinancing Plan (completed on 23 June) and a Share Capital Reorganisation (completed on 13 November) (refer Note 27). The 
number of shares and issue price as at 3 January 2015 reflects adjustments made in respect of each and, in the case of the number of shares under option, the impact of exercises, 
leavers and lapses of options.
The Group recognised a net charge of £292,000 for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: charge of £206,000) related to equity-
settled share-based payment transactions for the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The above options granted on 29 September 2006 and earlier were issued to employees at a price equivalent to the average mid-market price for the 
30 days prior to 1 September 2006. The subsequent options were granted at the closing mid-market price on the day prior to the invitation being sent 
to employees on 3 September 2007, 1 September 2008, 1 September 2009, 1 September 2010, 30 August 2013 and 9 October 2013 respectively. This 
follows the approval of the revised Sharesave Scheme at the Annual General Meeting in April 2007. A discount of 20% to the average mid-market price 
was applied to the issues up to and including 2009. No discount was applied to the 2010 issue and a discount of 10% was applied to the 2013 issue.
There were no options granted under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme in either 2011, 2012 or 2014.
Performance Share Plan
The Group makes awards to Executive Directors and certain senior employees on an annual basis under the Performance Share Plan. The awards vest 
after three years if certain performance criteria are met during that period.
Awards outstanding under the Performance Share Plan at the period end:
3 January 2015
Adjusted 
28 December 2013
1
Reported 
28 December 2013
Grant date Vesting dates
Number of 
shares
Market price 
on award
Number of 
shares
Market price 
on award
Number of 
shares
Market price 
on award
21 April 2011 21 April 2014 70,714 106.66p  279,374 106.66p  4,026,742 7.40p
31 May 2011 31 May 2014 – – 49,953 100.89p  720,000 7.00p
11 November 2011 11 November 2014 363,244 68.90p  726,489 68.90p  10,471,204 4.78p
14 September 2012 14 September 2015 810,532 79.13p  832,481 8.65p  11,998,916 6.00p
21 December 2012 21 December 2015 12,488 209.0p  12,488 209.0p  180,000 14.50p
5 June 2013 5 June 2016 399,621 250.79p  424,604 25.08p  6,120,000 17.40p
12 December 2014 12 December 2017 50,078 159.75p  – – – –
¹  During the period the Group undertook a Capital Refinancing Plan (completed on 23 June) and a Share Capital Reorganisation (completed on 13 November) (refer Note 27). The 
number of shares and issue price as at 3 January 2015 reflects adjustments made in respect of each and, in the case of the number of shares under option, the impact of exercises, 
leavers and lapses of options.
The Group recognised a net charge of £102,000 for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: net charge of £14,000) related to equity-
settled share-based payment transactions for the Performance Share Plan.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 117 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Company Share Option Plan
The Group granted options to certain senior managers to purchase shares in the Group at a certain market price, under the Company Share Option 
Plan. The awards vest after three years provided the employee remains employed by the Group.
Options outstanding under the Company Share Option Plan at the period end:
3 January 2015
Adjusted 
28 December 2013
1
Reported 
28 December 2013
Grant date Vesting dates
Number of 
shares
Market price
on award
Number of 
shares
Market price
on award
Number of 
shares
Market Price
on award
28 June 2012 28 June 2015 306,485 73.00p 351,469 73.00p  5,065,868 5.05p
5 June 2013 5 June 2016 396,573 250.79p 420,384 250.79p  6,059,177 17.40p
¹  During the period the Group undertook a Capital Refinancing Plan (completed on 23 June) and a Share Capital Reorganisation (completed on 13 November) (refer Note 27). The 
number of shares and issue price as at 3 January 2015 reflects adjustments made in respect of each and, in the case of the number of shares under option, the impact of exercises, 
leavers and lapses of options.
The Group recognised a net charge of £196,000 for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: net charge of £95,000) related to equity-
settled share-based payment transactions for the Company Share Option Plan.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
It is the Group’s policy that a proportion of any bonus paid to Executive Directors and certain senior employees is paid in shares deferred for three 
years. Awards which vest under the plan may only be satisfied using shares purchased in the market. 127,831 (28 December 2013 reported: 2,333,591) 
shares are held by the Group in relation to the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The Group recognised a net charge of £85,000 for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: £197,000) related to equity-settled bonus 
payments for the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Value Creation Plan
A new Value Creation Plan (‘VCP’) scheme was approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2014. Awards under 
the scheme were granted on 22 September 2014 to Executive Directors and certain senior employees. A total of 362,178,117 shares were granted at 
an exercise price of £0.04617 per share. Following completion of the Share Capital Reorganisation on 13 November 2016, the awards were adjusted as 
shown in the table below. Subject to share price performance, half the awards will vest on 23 June 2017 with the other half vesting at 23 June 2018 
(provided the employee remains with the Company).
Options outstanding under the Value Creation Plan at the period end:
Grant date Number of shares Market price on award Vesting dates
22 September 2014 7,243,559 231.0p 22 September 2017
The Group recognised a net exceptional charge of £232,000 for the period ended 3 January 2015 (28 December 2013: net charge of £nil) related to 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions for the Company Share Option Plan.
32. Related Party Transactions
Associated parties
The Group undertook transactions, all of which were on an arms’ length basis, and had balances outstanding at the period end with related parties as 
shown below.
Purchases Creditors Sales Debtors
Related party
3 January
2015
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
3 January
 2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
3 January
 2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
3 January
 2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
Classified Periodicals Ltd – 20 – 5 – – – –
Classified Periodicals Ltd is an associated undertaking of Johnston Press plc, which re-publishes in a separate publication classified advertisements that 
appear in the Group’s titles and those of certain other publishers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made for 
doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. 118 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32. Related Party Transactions (continued)
Transactions with Directors
There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings, 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
For the purposes of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, management below the level of the Company’s Board are not regarded as related parties.
The remuneration of the Directors at the year end, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in aggregate in the audited part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 62.
33. Financial Instruments 
a) Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to 
shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2013.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note 27 and in the Group 
Statement of Changes in Equity.
b) Gearing ratio
The Board of Directors formally reviews the capital structure of the Group when considering any major corporate transactions. As part of these 
reviews, the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. Based on the recommendations of the Board, the 
Group will balance its overall capital structure when appropriate through new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or 
the redemption of existing debt.
The gearing ratio at the period end is as follows:
3 January
2015 
£’000
28 December
2013
£’000
Debt 215,437 323,416
Cash and cash equivalents (30,817) (29,075)
Net debt (excluding the impact of cross-currency hedges) 184,620 294,341
Equity 199,981 100,424
Gearing ratio 48.0% 74.6%
Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings as detailed in Note 22. Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity 
holders of the parent.
c) Externally imposed capital requirements
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
d) Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on 
which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 2 to 
the financial statements.
e) Categories of financial instruments
3 January
2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
Financial assets (current and non-current)
Derivative instruments – 1,108
Trade receivables 25,095 26,996
Cash and cash equivalents 30,817 29,075
Available for sale financial assets 970 970
Financial liabilities (current and non-current)
Trade payables (7,510) (14,475)
Borrowings
1
(215,437) (323,416)
¹  2013 Borrowings at amortised cost.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 119 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
f) Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of 
the Group through assessment of the exposures by degree and magnitude of risk. These risks include market risk (including currency risk and interest 
rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board and guidelines agreed with the Group’s lenders that must be 
operated within. The Group does not enter into or trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Corporate Treasury function reports regularly to the Executive Directors and the Board.
g) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates (refer to section i). Exposure to foreign currency exchange has 
been substantially reduced following the repayment of the US dollar loan note (refer to section h).
At a Group and Company level, market risk exposures are assessed using sensitivity analyses.
There have been no significant changes to the Group’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures risk.
h) Foreign currency risk management
As described in Note 22 (Borrowings), all amounts previously outstanding were repaid and cancelled in full, therefore the Group no longer has 
significant cash flow exposure to fluctuations in the US dollar and Euro. As a result the Group no longer has the need to use currency derivatives to 
hedge future transactions and cash flows (see also Note 22 Derivative Financial Instruments) as the new issued 8.625% senior secured notes were 
issued all in GBP (British Pounds Sterling).
However the Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows:
Liabilities Assets
3 January
2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
3 January
 2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Euro
Trade receivables – – 1,546
Cash and cash equivalents – – 2,632 2,510
Trade payables (475) (1,565) – –
Borrowings – (12,533) – –
US Dollar
Cash and cash equivalents – – 456 4,895
Trade payables (30) – – –
Borrowings – (84,103) – –
Foreign currency sensitivity
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% change in Pounds Sterling against the Euro and a 5% change in Pounds Sterling against the 
US Dollar. These percentages are the rates used by management when assessing sensitivities internally and represent management’s assessment of 
the possible change in foreign currency rates.
The Group does not hedge the Euro income or deposits or trade payables because the risk of foreign exchange movements is not deemed to 
be significant.
The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date has been determined based on the change taking place at 
the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period. A positive number indicates an increase in profit or loss and 
other equity where Pounds Sterling strengthens against the respective currency. For a 5% weakening of the Sterling against the relevant currency, 
there is an equal and opposite impact on profit or loss and other equity, and the balances below reverse signs.
Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact
5% strengthening of Pounds Sterling (GBP)
3 January
2015
£’000
28 December
2013
£’000
3 January
 2015
£’000
28 December
2013
£’000
Profit or loss (124) 436 (12) 3,959 120 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
33. Financial Instruments (continued)
i) Interest rate risk management
As mentioned in Note 22 (Borrowings), the Group issued 8.625% senior secured notes (Bond) which has fixed the interest costs for the Group 
borrowings and is viewed appropriate by the Executive Directors and the Board. As a result the Group no longer has the need to use financial 
derivatives (see also Note 23 Derivative Financial Instruments) to hedge to maintain an appropriate mix between fixed and floating interest rates.
In addition the Group’s new undrawn Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) carries a floating interest rate if utilised, however the Group has no short-term 
plans to draw down the facility in part or full.
Measurement
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into 3 levels based on the extent to which the fair 
value is observable. The levels are classified as follows:
Level 1: fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identified financial assets and liabilities.
Level 2: fair value is determined using directly observable inputs other than level 1 inputs.
Level 3: fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
In the current and prior period, the foreign currency options and interest rate caps are classified as level 2 financial instruments. The available for sale 
investments are classified as level 3 financial instruments. There have been no transfers between the various levels of the fair value hierarchy during 
the period.
j) Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has adopted 
a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a way of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group’s policy on dealing with 
trade customers is described in Notes 2 and 21.
The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored. As far as possible, the aggregate value of transactions is 
spread across a number of approved counterparties.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. On-going credit evaluation is 
performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics, 
the latter being defined as connected entities, other than with some of the larger advertising agencies. In the case of the latter, a close relationship 
exists between the Group and the agencies and appropriate allowances for doubtful debts are in place. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative 
financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies, and the 
funds and financial instruments are held with a number of banks to spread the risk.
The following table shows the total estimated exposure to credit risk for all of the Group’s financial assets, excluding trade receivables which are 
discussed in Note 21:
3 January 2015 28 December 2013
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Exposure to
credit risk 
£’000 
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Exposure to 
credit risk 
£’000
Available for sale investments 970 – 970 –
Cash and cash equivalents 30,817 – 29,075 –
Derivative instruments – – 1,108 –
31,787 – 31,153 –
k) Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has agreed an appropriate liquidity risk management 
framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages 
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Included in Note 22 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has 
at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Liquidity risk is further discussed in the Financial Review on page 32.
34. Post Balance Sheet Events
There were no material post balance sheet events requiring disclosure.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 121 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
1 January 
2011
1
£’000
31 December 
2011
1
£’000
29 December 
2012
1
£’000
28 December 
2013
1
£’000
3 January 
2015
1,2
£’000
Income statement
Revenue 398,084 373,845 328,691 302,799 268,823
Operating profit on ordinary activities
3
71,991 64,552 57,045 54,879 55,452
Share of associates’ operating profit 10 10 6 2 –
Exceptional items (17,133) (171,531) (16,604) (300,549) (44,739)
(Loss)/profit before interest and taxation 54,868 (106,969) 40,447 (245,668) 10,713
Net finance costs (38,339) (36,834) (47,212) (41,167) (34,629)
(Loss)/profit before taxation 16,529 (143,803) (6,765) (286,835) (23,916)
Taxation 19,535 54,866 12,376 74,869 8,580
(Loss)/profit for the year 36,064 (88,937) 5,611 (211,966) (15,336)
Statistics
Earnings
4
35,912 (89,089) 5,459 (212,118) (15,488)
Weighted average number of shares
4
639,744 625,712 621,759 647,804 3,520,000
Basic (loss)/earnings per share 5.61p (14.24p) 0.88p (32.74p) (0.44)
Earnings 23,478 21,881 21,272 17,159 26,870
Weighted average number of shares 639,744 625,712 621,759 647,804 3,520,000
Adjusted earnings per share 3.67p 3.50p 3.42p 2.65p 0.76
Operating profit
3
 to turnover 18.1% 17.3% 17.4% 18.1% 20.6%
Balance sheet
Intangible assets 907,455 742,851 742,294 541,360 514,324
Property, plant and equipment 195,091 171,154 127,223 54,181 53,334
Investments 982 984 990 992 992
Derivative financial instruments 15,757 – 2,742 – –
1,119,285 914,989 873,255 596,533 568,650
Net current assets/(liabilities) 11,483 (340,805) 16,823 (14,737) 15,824
Total assets and current assets/(liabilities) 1,130,768 574,184 890,078 581,796 584,474
Non-current liabilities (403,404) (454) (334,362) (314,999) (215,439)
Long-term provisions (316,177) (289,366) (281,799) (169,714) (169,054)
Net assets 411,187 284,364 273,917 97,083 199,981
Shareholders’ Funds
Ordinary Shares 63,975 63,975 63,975 68,435 115,065
Preference Shares 1,106 1,106 1,106 1,106 1,106
Reserves 346,106 219,283 208,836 27,542 83,810
Capital employed 411,187 284,364 273,917 97,083 199,981
¹  All periods related to 52 trading weeks with the exception of 3 January 2015 which was a 53 week period.
²  Adjusted for the adoption of IAS19R and for the disposal of the Republic of Ireland business on 1 April 2014.
³  Before exceptional and IAS21/39 items.
⁴  In line with IAS 33, the preference dividend and the number of preference shares are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Group Five-Year Summary
1 122 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes
3 January
 2015 
£’000
28 December
2013 
£’000
Fixed assets
Tangible 36 209 27
Investments 37 376,434 381,764
376,643 381,791
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 38 91,801 88,628
Debtors – due after more than one year 38 439,524 440,178
Cash at bank and in hand 12,472 18,688
543,797 547,494
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 39 (165,085) (165,500)
Net current assets 378,712 381,994
Total assets less current liabilities 755,355 763,785
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 40 (221,193) (314,863)
Provisions for liabilities 42 (1,443) (1,412)
Net assets 532,719 447,510
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
Ordinary 27 115,065 68,435
Preference 27 1,106 1,106
116,171 69,541
Reserves 43 416,548 377,969
Shareholders’ funds 44 532,719 447,510
The comparative numbers are as at 28 December 2013.
The financial statements of Johnston Press plc, registered in Scotland (number 15382), were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2015 
and were signed on its behalf by:
 
 
Ashley Highfield  David King
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Company Balance Sheet
As at 3 January 2015 123 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
35. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting and preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted by that Act, the separate 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards. No Profit and Loss Account is 
presented as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company’s result for the period, determined in accordance with the Act, was  
a loss of £47,078,000 (28 December 2013: loss of £185,819,000). The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for 
financial instruments, unlisted investments and share-based payments as explained in the principal accounting policies adopted set out below.
The 2014 period was for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 with the prior year being for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013.
Going concern 
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that both the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in Note 3 within the section on ‘going concern’.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed asset balances are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant 
and equipment, excluding land, at varying rates calculated to write-off cost over the useful lives. The principal rates employed are:
Plant and machinery   20% straight-line basis
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. Unlisted investments are shown at Directors’ 
valuation. Upward revaluations are credited to the revaluation reserve. Downward revaluations in excess of any previous upward revaluations are 
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premia payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the Profit and Loss Account using the effective interest method and are added to 
the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. Fees incurred in negotiating borrowings 
are held on the Balance Sheet and amortised to the Profit and Loss Account over the term of the underlying debt.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the period end date where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the period end date. Timing 
differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion  
of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the period end date.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity settled share-based benefits to certain employees. These share-based payments are measured at their fair value at the 
date of grant and the fair value of expected shares is expensed to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Fair value 
is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model, as amended to take account of the Directors’ best estimate of probable share vesting and exercise.
Dividends
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved. In the Company’s 
financial statements, dividends receivable from subsidiaries are recognised as assets in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of that 
instrument.
The Company’s activities and funding structure give rise to some exposure to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Company uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage these exposures. The Company does not 
use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised directly in the Profit and Loss Account.
Full details of the Group policy are summarised on Note 33.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 124 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued)
35. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies (continued)
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group-wide scheme, the Johnston Press Pension Plan, which has a defined benefit section (providing benefits based  
on final pensionable pay) and a defined contribution section (see Note 24). The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company. 
The pension costs for the defined contribution section are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on the basis of contributions due in respect of the 
financial year. In relation to the defined benefit section of the scheme, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities 
on a consistent and reliable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17, the Company accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme.  
As a result, the amount charged to the Profit and Loss Account in respect of the defined benefit section represents the contributions payable to the 
scheme in respect of the period.
36. Tangible Fixed Assets
Plant and
machinery 
£’000
Cost
At 28 December 2013 35
Additions 205
At 3 January 2015 240
Depreciation
At 28 December 2013 8
Charge for the period 23
At 3 January 2015 31
Carrying amount 
At 28 December 2013 27
At 3 January 2015 209
37. Investments 
Subsidiary
undertakings 
£’000 
Unlisted
investments 
£’000
Total
 £’000
Cost
At the start of the period 1,106,376 3,526 1,109,902
Investment in new subsidiary 50 – 50
Amounts relating to share-based payments 571 – 571
At the end of the period 1,106,997 3,526 1,110,523
Provisions for impairment
At the start of the period (724,612) (3,526) (728,138)
Provision for impairment of investment in subsidiaries (5,951) – (5,951)
At the end of the period (730,563) (3,526) (734,089)
Net book value 
At the start of the period 381,764 – 381,764
At the end of the period 376,434 – 376,434
An impairment charge has been reflected in the financial statements of the Group. Full details are explained in Note 15. Inevitably this affects the value 
of the investments held by the Parent Company and the element of the impairment of intangible assets relating to the investments held by the 
Company only has been processed as an impairment of investments. 125 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued)
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of company Country of incorporation and operation
Proportion of
ownership interest Nature of business
Johnston Press Bond Plc England 100% Financing
Johnston Publishing Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Johnston Press Ireland Ltd
1
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers
Isle of Man Newspapers Ltd
1
Isle of Man 100% Newspaper publishers 
Score Press Ltd Scotland 100% Holding company
Score Press Ireland
1
Republic of Ireland 100% Holding company
The Scotsman Publications Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Johnston (Falkirk) Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers
Strachan & Livingston Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers
The Tweeddale Press Ltd
1
Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Angus County Press Ltd
1
Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Galloway Gazette Ltd
1
Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Stornoway Gazette Ltd
1
Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Northeast Press Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Yorkshire Post Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Ackrill Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Halifax Courier Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Yorkshire Regional Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Lancashire Evening Post Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Lancashire Publications Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Lancaster & Morecambe Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Blackpool Gazette & Herald Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
East Lancashire Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Johnston Letterbox Direct Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Wilfred Edmunds Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
South Yorkshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
East Midlands Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers
Lincolnshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Anglia Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Northamptonshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Central Counties Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Premier Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Sheffield Newspapers Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
Peterboro’ Web Ltd England 100% Contract printers
Northampton Web Ltd
1
England 100% Contract printers
Portsmouth Publishing & Printing Ltd
1
England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
Sussex Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
T R Beckett Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Morton Newspapers Ltd
1
Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
Derry Journal Ltd
1
Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Donegal Democrat Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Longford Leader Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Leitrim Observer Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Leinster Leader Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Leinster Express Newspapers Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Dundalk Democrat Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Limerick Leader Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers
Clonnad Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers
Kilkenny People Publishing Ltd
1,2
Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers
¹  Held through a subsidiary.
²  As part of the disposal of the Republic of Ireland business, the newspaper titles, trades and certain assets of the Company’s subsidiaries were sold to Iconic Newspapers Limited.  
These Companies will become dormant in the 2015 year.
There is no difference in the proportions of ownership interest shown above and the voting power held. All investments in subsidiary undertakings are 
held at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. 126 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
38. Debtors
3 January
2015
£’000 
28 December
2013
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 80,104 86,366
Group relief receivable 10,360 1,896
Trade and other debtors and prepayments 1,337 366
91,801 88,628
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 438,708 438,702
Derivative financial instruments (Note 23) – 1,108
Deferred tax asset – see below 816 368
439,524 440,178
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the year:
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£’000
Pension 
balances 
£’000
Other timing 
differences 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At the start of the period 8 282 78 368
Charge to profit and loss account (6) 7 447 448
At the end of the period 2 289 525 816
39. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
3 January 
2015  
£’000 
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Borrowings (Note 41) – 8,553
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 159,337 144,376
Other taxes and social security costs 420 3,749
Trade creditors 783 –
Accruals and deferred income 4,545 8,822
165,085 165,500
40. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due After More Than One Year
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 220,500 –
Accruals and deferred income 693 –
Borrowings (Note 41) – 314,863
221,193 314,863
41. Borrowings
The Company’s bank overdrafts and loans comprise:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Bank loans – 200,851
Private placement loan notes – 110,994
Payment-In-Kind interest accrual – 20,372
Total borrowings excluding term debt issue costs – 332,217
Term debt issue costs – (8,801)
Total borrowings – 323,416
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 127 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Financial Statements > Directors’ Governance >
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
On demand or within one year – 8,553
Within one to two years – 314,863
– 323,416
Other details relating to the bank overdrafts and loans are set out in Note 22.
42. Provisions For Liabilities
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
Unfunded pensions 1,443 1,412
The unfunded pension provision is assessed by a qualified actuary at each period end. Refer to Note 26 for further details.
43. Reserves 
Share 
premium 
£’000
Share-based 
payments 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Own 
shares 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Opening balance 502,829 13,556 (133,104) (5,312) 377,969
Loss for the period – – (47, 078) – (47,078)
Dividends (Note 13) – – (152) – (152)
Provision for share-based payments – 907 – – 907
Group savings related share option scheme 68 – – – 68
Placing shares 2,188 – – – 2,188
Rights issue 91,798 – – – 91,798
Refinancing costs (9,181) – – – (9,181)
Performance share plan exercised – (77) – 77 –
Company share option plan exercised – – – 29 29
Release on exercise of warrants
1
– (601) 601 – –
At the end of the period 587,702 13,785 (179,733) (5,206) 416,548
¹   The transfer of £601,000 between the share based payments reserve and retained earnings represents the original valuation of the warrants being exercised, which was recognised as 
a cost when the warrants were issued. Further details of share-based payments are shown in Note 31.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Johnston Press plc purchased in the market and held by the Johnston Press plc Employee 
Share Trust (the ‘JP EST’) to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes (see Note 31). The number of ordinary shares held by the JP EST 
as at 3 January 2015 was 473,944 (28 December 2013: 12,707,321). In addition to the JP EST, £nil shares are held regarding the deferred share bonus 
plan (28 December 2013: 554,493).
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2014, a special resolution was approved to initiate a process to reduce the Company’s share 
premium account by £275 million. The capital reduction will eliminate the accumulated deficit of £179.7 million on the Company’s profit and loss 
account and create positive distributable reserves of £95.3 million. This will enable the Company to pay out dividends in the 2015 year. Refer to the 
table below for further details.
Capital reduction – Share premium proforma
3 January 
2015  
£’000 
Capital 
Reduction 
£’000
Post Capital 
Reduction
£’000
Share premium 587,702 (275,000) 312,702
Retained earnings (179,733) 275,000 95,267
407,969 – 407,969
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) 128 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
44. Shareholders’ Funds 
3 January 
2015 
£’000
28 December 
2013 
£’000
(Loss)/Profit for the year after taxation (47,078) (185,819)
Dividends (Note 13) (152) (152)
Provision for share–based payments (Note 31) 907 512
Group savings related share option scheme 68 –
Placing shares 2,188 –
Rights issue 91,798 –
Refinancing costs (9,181) –
Options exercised 29 –
Issue of share capital – 11
Own shares purchased – (97)
Proceeds of issue of ordinary shares (Note 27) 46,630 4,460
Net increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds 85,209 (181,085)
Opening shareholders’ funds 447,510 628,595
Closing shareholders’ funds 532,719 447,510
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the 53 week period ended 3 January 2015 (continued) Solicitors
MacRoberts
Capella
60 York Street
Glasgow
G2 8JX
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London
EC2A 2HA
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3BZ
Investment Bankers
Rothschild
New Court 
St Swithin’s Lane
London 
EC4N 8AL
Stockbrokers
Panmure Gordon
One New Change
London
EC4M 9AF
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH 
Advisers Press Association: Tour de France weaves its way through Haworth
