 KCOM Group PLC        Annual report and accounts 2014/15
Connecting 
people
KCOM Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 Small and medium-
sized businesses
Supporting small and medium-sized 
businesses to exploit the benefits of 
cloud services
Consumers
Helping consumers 
live more connected lives
Enterprises
 Enabling enterprises to 
achieve business outcomes 
through technology
We are a leading provider 
of communications services 
to organisations and 
consumers in the UK. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 01
Strategic report
02 Our business at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 CEO’s statement
08 Performance review
10 Our business model
12 Market opportunities and trends
15 Case studies
16 Our strategy
18 Key performance indicators (KPIs)
20 Risk management
22 Corporate responsibility
Directors’ report
28 Board of Directors
30 Corporate governance
34 Nomination Committee report
36 Audit Committee report
39 Other disclosures
42 Remuneration report
43 Policy report
49 Annual report on remuneration
Financial statements
58  Independent auditors’ report
64  Consolidated income statement
64  C on s ol i d a t e d s t a t em en t 
of comprehensive income
65 Balance sheets
66  Consolidated statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
67  Parent company statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
68 Cash flow statements
69  Notes to the financial statements
95  Five year summary of consolidated figures
96 Shareholder information
Highlights
 I Performance in line with expectations
 I Progress across all key focus areas
 I Success of and growth in demand for IP-based ‘Workplaces’ 
portfolio, including successful HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
implementation and further significant opportunities in pipeline 
 I Acceleration of fibre deployment in Hull and East Yorkshire, 
following continued strong demand for fibre and broadband 
services, well ahead of national average
 I Business transformation continues to create a more agile 
operating model
 I Integration of brands to focus investment on growth in 
the enterprise, small and medium-sized business (SMB) 
and consumer markets
 I Continued move towards effective, efficient support services/
back-office operations and implementation of common 
systems and processes supports consolidation of teams
Operational highlights
Revenue £m
£348.0m K 6.1%
370.7 2014
348.0 2015
EBITDA
1
 £m
£74.3m K 1.3%
75.3 2014
74.3 2015
Operating profit
1
 £m
£57.2m L 4.0%
55.0 2014
57.2 2015
Profit before tax
1
 £m
£51.5m L 3.2%
49.9 2014
51.5 2015
Net debt £m
£99.3m L 32.4%
75.0 2014
99.3 2015
Proposed full year dividend per share
 
p
5.37p L 10.0%
4.88 2014
5.37 2015
Financial highlights
1.  Before exceptionals.
Strategic report
page 2
Directors’ report
page 28
Performance review
page 8
KPIs
page 18 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 02
Strategic report
Our business at a glance
We are the partner of choice for organisations 
and consumers seeking to harness the power 
of communications
Our goal is to become an acknowledged 
leader in the markets we serve and an 
automatic partner of choice for 
organisations and consumers 
in those markets.
We aim to help our customers exploit 
the communications revolution and its 
associated technologies to improve the 
performance of their organisations 
and to enhance their personal 
communications experience.
 Enterprises
We help customers meet their business 
needs, growth and cost outcomes through 
the integration of collaboration and 
communications tools.
Our customers in this market include Admiral, 
Association of Train Operating Companies 
(ATOC), Aviva, Domino’s, HMRC, Kuoni, 
Morrisons and NFUM.
Served by
Smart421 and Kcom
Further information:
Our business model
page 10
Market opportunities and trends
page 12
Case studies
page 15 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 03
Strategic report
 Consumers
Our broadband-based services help 
people communicate and live their lives 
in a digital age.
Our customers in this market include more than 
130,000 households in Hull and East Yorkshire.
 Small and 
medium‑sized 
businesses
Our connectivity and IT services help 
businesses operate more efficiently, 
provide better customer service and 
achieve growth.
Our customers in this market include 
Foot Anstey, Furniture Village, Hull College Group, 
RNLI, RSPB and The Range.
Served by
KC and Eclipse
Served by
KC KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 04
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
We have seen clear progress in terms of 
growing customer demand and increased 
operational effectiveness
In summary
 I Business continues to progress 
its transformation
 I New Board appointments bring fresh 
perspectives and contributions
 I Focus and discussion on strategic milestones 
and succession planning
 I Continued dividend growth reflects strength 
of the business
Dear shareholder
The business continues to perform well, progressing its transformation 
journey to become more tightly focused on the markets in which it 
operates. While this journey will continue into the coming financial year, 
we have seen clear progress in terms of growing customer demand and 
increased operational effectiveness.
Dividend
As a result of this progress and our confidence in the strength of the 
business, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.58 pence per share 
(2014: 3.25 pence). Subject to shareholder approval at this year’s AGM, 
the final dividend will be paid on 4 August 2015 to shareholders 
registered on 26 June 2015. The ex-dividend date is 25 June 2015.
The proposed total dividend of 5.37 pence per share (2014: 4.88 pence) 
would result in a sixth year of 10 per cent growth in the total dividend. 
This is consistent with the Board’s previously stated commitment to 
grow full-year dividends by at least 10 per cent per annum and this 
commitment remains in place until 31 March 2016. 
The executive team 
continues to lead the 
transformation of 
the business KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 05
Strategic report
Strategic focus
As the executive team continues to lead the transformation of the 
business, a great deal of the Board’s time has been focused on evaluating 
progress against key strategic milestones. We continue to have an 
effective Board in place, with debate and constructive challenge on all 
of the key areas of the business. Given the strong focus on the strategy 
of the Group, there has been a standing agenda item at each Board 
meeting to discuss strategy, with contributions from across the Board.
Board appointments
We reported last year that we were seeking an additional Non-Executive 
Director to join the Board and we were delighted to appoint Peter Smith 
to the Board in January 2015. Peter brings with him a wealth of 
experience in assisting businesses across different industries in 
developing and delivering their strategies.
Earlier this year, Martin Towers notified us of his intention to retire from 
the Board at the AGM in July 2015. In seeking a successor for Martin’s 
role, we welcomed Liz Barber to the Board in April 2015. She has 
significant financial experience and expertise and will become 
Audit Committee Chairman following Martin’s departure. 
We believe that both Peter and Liz will bring new perspectives to 
our Board discussions and will contribute significantly to the ongoing 
effectiveness of the Board. We used external recruitment consultants 
who are completely independent of the business for both appointments.
Board effectiveness 
We continually consider the effectiveness of the Board and have a formal 
evaluation annually, which in 2014 was performed by an independent 
external firm. The conclusion from the evaluation was that we are 
operating effectively but there were some minor areas for improvement, 
which are detailed further on page 32. We have taken action in all the 
areas identified as we strive to be as effective as we can be.
We always seek to ensure that we have appropriate succession plans 
in place both for the Board and for the senior management team 
of the business and this has been another regular topic of discussion 
during the year.
Looking ahead
Over the coming year, there are a number of priorities for the Board. 
The first is for Peter and Liz to continue to familiarise themselves with 
the business and spend time with members of the senior management 
team. We believe that having a clear understanding of how the business 
operates is key to the Board’s ability to measure progress and contribute 
to its future success.
As the transformation of the business continues, I anticipate that a great 
deal of the Board’s time and focus will be on reviewing progress against 
the key strategic milestones set out by the senior management team. 
Given the growing dependency on the strength of our people, the Board 
will increasingly dedicate time to further discussions around succession 
planning and to making sure that plans are in place to retain and 
develop talent. 
Good governance and responsible business
We believe that good governance is essential to the Group and we seek 
to adopt best practice in all areas of governance where it is possible to 
do so. We also believe it is vital that the Board lives the values according 
to which the Group conducts itself; those of being open and considerate, 
team-minded, flexible, inspiring and innovative. I believe that our current 
Board achieves this and we will seek to continue to demonstrate these 
values in all that we do.
Those values have been embraced by employees and we continue 
to have a high level of engagement in community programmes right 
across the business, and particularly in Hull and East Yorkshire. 
At the end of this year, we came to the end of our three-year Charity 
Partnership with Sparks, during which, through a wide variety of 
fundraising activities, we were able to raise over £235,000 for the 
charity. This money will support Sparks’ ongoing work to fund 
pioneering research into conditions that affect babies, children 
and mothers-to-be. 
At the start of this financial year, we began our new partnership with 
the Teenage Cancer Trust and I am sure that we will see equally 
enthusiastic support.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge once more the significant 
contribution made by our employees. An environment of transition and 
change inevitably results in a level of uncertainty. Since we began this 
journey in 2008, our employees have consistently demonstrated their 
commitment to delivering inspiring experiences to our customers and 
I have every confidence in their ability to rise to the challenges ahead. 
I thank them for their focus, hard work and commitment.
Graham Holden
Non‑Executive Chairman
17 June 2015
Employees have consistently 
demonstrated commitment 
to delivering inspiring 
customer experiences KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 06
Strategic report
CEO’s statement
Continued progress as we transform 
the business
Dear shareholder
During the last year we have continued with the transformation 
of the business, building on the progress made since we began this 
journey back in 2008. Our full year financial results were broadly 
as anticipated and I am pleased to report that there has been 
continued progress in our focus areas, as we transform into an 
integrated business. 
Within the Kcom segment, made up of the activities relating to 
our Kcom, Smart421 and Eclipse brands, we continued our shift away 
from the provision of declining network-based voice and associated 
commodity services and towards more sustainable, higher value 
managed IP-based services. Those services included our contract to 
provide HMRC with a range of contact centre services, exploiting our 
investment in our market leading ‘Workplaces’ platform. This was 
delivered successfully and in place ahead of the personal tax 
self-assessment deadline at the end of January. 
We launched also a number of cloud-based packages, primarily aimed 
at small and medium-sized businesses. These include a managed 
Office 365 service, with increased levels of customer support and 
tailored migration. During the year, our Eclipse brand became one 
of Microsoft’s first official Cloud Solution Provider partners.
We continue to 
shift towards 
sustainable, higher 
value services
In summary
 I Progress towards becoming 
an integrated business
 I Continue transformation through 
tighter focus on three key markets
 I Integration of brands to align resource
 I Journey continues into coming year KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 07
Strategic report
Across all brands, we continue to see growing interest in our cloud 
and collaboration related capabilities.
As a result of this continued shift, the revenue and margins from 
some of our more traditional legacy activities have continued to 
decline. Recognising this, and their diminishing importance and 
contribution to future growth, an exceptional impairment charge 
has been recognised against the goodwill balance associated with 
those related historic acquisitions made in 2004.
In the KC segment, our Lightstream fibre network is supporting 
the demand for cloud-based services among SMBs, with continued 
interest for example in our high definition cloud-based CCTV service. 
Demand is driven also by Hull’s inclusion in the Government’s 
Superfast Britain voucher scheme, aimed at supporting SMBs with 
improved digital connectivity.
We have seen continued strong demand for our fibre-based services 
among consumers in the region with take-up well in excess of national 
rates. As a result, we have taken the decision to accelerate the rate of 
deployment and, by March 2017, over 100,000 homes will be able to 
access the service.
We have seen that fibre customers consume over twice as much 
data compared to those using a standard copper-based broadband 
connection. This demonstrates the growing importance of high 
bandwidth connections as customers look to make use of the wide 
range of ‘over the top’ services that are being developed such as 
on-demand content. 
While many of those services are developed by third parties, we have 
begun to develop regionally-focused content for consumers, including 
coverage of local sporting and cultural events. Our content offering 
is in the early stages of development and we will be making more 
content available, particularly in the run up to Hull becoming the UK 
City of Culture in 2017. 
These are the key opportunities for future growth and in the coming 
year, we will seek to accelerate the progress we’ve made to date. 
Ofcom
In March, the industry regulator, Ofcom, announced its intention 
to undertake a strategic review of the UK’s digital communications 
market, to ensure that communications providers and services 
continue to meet the needs of consumers and businesses. It will 
examine competition, investment, innovation and the availability 
of products in the broadband, mobile and landline markets. 
The first phase of the review will examine current and future market 
factors that may affect digital communications services, and current 
regulatory approaches. Ofcom expects to publish a discussion 
document in the near future.
We will play an active part in this review, continuing our active 
and constructive dialogue with the regulator and other 
communications providers. 
Looking ahead
Over the coming year, we will continue to tighten our focus on the 
three key markets we serve: enterprise, small and medium-sized 
business and consumer. 
To do this, we will begin the process of integrating our existing brands 
in order to align resources with those target markets and prioritise 
investment more tightly to support our strategic growth areas, where 
we see increasing opportunity. We see this, in particular, being the 
provision of cloud-based services, the integration of collaborative 
systems and their related consultancy, design and integration 
activities and the development of fibre-based propositions. Building on 
the progress to date, we will continue consolidating our business-wide 
operational and support services to remove overlaps and duplication 
creating a more scalable, agile operating model. 
Our achievements so far on the journey are a testament to the 
capability, commitment and collaboration of everyone across the 
business and it is that strength and combination of qualities that will 
see us continue our successful transformation, while continuing to 
deliver the highest standards of customer service.
Bill Halbert
Chief Executive
17 June 2015
We will seek to 
accelerate the 
progress we 
have made KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 08
Strategic report
Performance review
Business update
Businesses of all sizes are looking for a technology partner that can 
provide solutions that deliver against clear business outcomes. 
In the enterprise market, we are becoming recognised as a partner of 
choice for the delivery of complex integration projects, as is evidenced 
by the successful implementation of a private cloud, contact solution for 
HMRC. This success reflects our decision to invest in higher value services 
and migrate the business away from the provision of declining voice and 
volume-based connectivity services.
Within the SMB market, we provide and support a range of subscription-
based IT and communications packages. We have seen growing demand 
particularly for cloud-based services, across both new and existing customers, 
resulting in continued revenue and EBITDA margin growth in this area.
In the consumer market, data usage continues to grow exponentially, 
driving demand for both fibre-based and traditional broadband services. 
Our fibre deployment in Hull and East Yorkshire has achieved take-up 
of 33 per cent of premises passed, significantly above the national 
average. Based on this strong demand, we have accelerated our 
deployment of fibre and, by 2017, over 50 per cent of customers will have 
access to these services. The majority of our fibre services are delivered 
direct to the premises, allowing us to offer speeds and capacity that can 
grow readily, to match future customer demand. 
Set against this progress, the revenue and margins from some of our more 
traditional legacy activities have continued to decline. Recognising this, 
and their diminishing importance and contribution to future growth, 
an exceptional, non-cash impairment charge of £33.9 million has been 
recognised against the goodwill balance associated with the related 
acquisitions made in 2004.
The Group is well positioned to deliver value-added 
services in our target markets
In summary
 I Performance in line with expectations
 I Progress across all key focus areas
 I Pre-exceptional operating profit up 4 % to 
£57 .2m (2014: £55.0m), reported operating 
profit £22.4m (2014: £55.6m)
 I Adjusted basic EPS up 5 % to 7 .91p (2014: 7 .55p)
 I Proposed final dividend of 3.58p (2014: 3.25p), 
representing sixth year of at least 10 per cent 
dividend growth
Revenue £m
£348.0m K 6.1%
EBITDA
1
 £m
£74.3m K 1.3%
Operating profit
1
 £m
£57.2m L 4.0%
We are increasingly 
recognised as a 
partner of choice for 
the delivery of complex 
integration projects
1.  Before exceptionals. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 09
Strategic report
KC
The KC reporting segment covers communications services for consumers 
and SMBs within Hull and East Yorkshire, and provides contact centre and 
publishing services. Key features of the year include:
 I continued growth in consumer revenue and profitability driven by 
growing demand for broadband services and increasing penetration 
of bundled products with an accelerating demand for fibre services;
 I consumer Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) continues to increase 
as a result of new broadband customers and fibre take-up; 
 I slightly weaker business performance, pipeline strengthening 
particularly for fibre services; and
 I an expected lower publishing EBITDA, reflecting anticipated decline 
in the Hull Colour Pages directory. 
The fibre deployment across Hull and East Yorkshire continues to achieve 
customer take-up well in excess of national trends. As at 31 April 2015, 
approximately 48,000 premises had access to fibre with take-up of 
33 per cent. As a result, we have accelerated our rate of deployment 
and by March 2017, we expect to reach 100,000 customers, covering 
50 per cent of our network area.
Hull is included in a government funding scheme aimed at supporting 
SMBs with improved digital connectivity. KC has registered as a provider 
under the scheme and since launching on 1 April has achieved 110 sales 
with pipeline building to 450 registered interests. Fibre take-up rates in 
the business sector are significantly ahead of initial expectations, 
at approximately 50 per cent of premises passed.
Kcom
The Kcom reporting segment covers the communication and 
collaboration services provided across the enterprise and SMB activities 
(excluding Hull and East Yorkshire). Key features in the year include:
 I investment in cloud-based contact services underpins successful 
implementation of HMRC contract within Kcom; 
 I overall revenue and profit in Kcom brand impacted by continued 
decline in legacy activities; 
 I cloud services contributing to a growing revenue and market share 
within Eclipse; and 
 I strategic progress and stronger second half order intake in Smart421, 
particularly in cloud-based integration and consultancy services. 
The substantial government contract to provide a cloud-based contact 
centre for HMRC was delivered successfully, ahead of the 31 January 
self-assessment deadline. This initial deployment was the start of our 
engagement with HMRC’s digital roadmap. 
Refinancing, net debt and cash flow 
During the year, the Group refinanced through the agreement of 
a £200 million revolving credit facility, secured on improved terms. 
This new arrangement, which expires on 30 June 2019, provides 
sufficient funding to support the Group’s growth.
Exceptional items
The Group’s net exceptional charge is £34.8 million (see Note 7 
to the financial statements). Significant items include:
 I £33.9 million impairment charge against the goodwill balance 
of legacy activities associated with historical acquisitions made 
in 2004. This is a non-cash item and is treated as exceptional in 
line with our accounting policy;
 I £7 .5 million restructuring costs relating to cost reduction, strategic IT 
investment and the move towards an integrated operating model; 
offset by
 I £5.3 million cash receipt in relation to a rebate of prior year network rates.
As anticipated year end net debt increased to £99.3 million 
(2014: £75.0 million), representing a net debt to pre-exceptional EBITDA 
ratio of 1.3 x (2014: 1.0 x). The year on year movement in net debt was 
anticipated following planned increases relating to our services to HMRC. 
The Group’s working capital outflow in the year principally arose as a 
result of a partial reversal of the strong cash collection in March 2014.
Dividend 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.58 pence per share 
(2014: 3.25 pence), representing a total dividend for the year of 5.37 pence 
per share (2014: 4.88 pence). This represents 10.0 per cent year on year 
growth in the total dividend, consistent with the Board’s previously stated 
commitment to grow full year dividends at 10 per cent per annum until 
the year ending 31 March 2016. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the KCOM Group PLC Annual General 
Meeting on 31 July 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 4 August 2015 
to shareholders registered on 26 June 2015. The ex-dividend date 
is 25 June 2015.
Pensions 
The year end IAS 19 pension liability was £31.4 million (2014: £26.5 million). 
The year on year increase arose as a result of: 
 I £22.6 million increase in liabilities, principally due to a 1.05 per cent 
decrease in the discount rate, mitigated in part by a reduction in the 
assumed rate of inflation; offset by 
 I £17.7 million increase on assets, due to stronger investment returns 
(equity and bonds) over the year. 
The agreed level of deficit repair payment (across both schemes) for the 
year ended 31 March 2016 is £2.0 million. 
Capital investment 
The Group’s investment profile is consistent with previous guidance and cash 
capital expenditure during the year was £32.0 million (2014: £27.9 million). 
Specific projects include: 
 I the continued deployment of fibre; 
 I strategic IT investment, including the implementation of SAP 
financials, driving the Group’s move towards common systems 
and processes; and 
 I targeted customer specific investment. 
The Group’s depreciation and amortisation charge for the year is 
£17.1 million (2014: £20.3 million). In line with its accounting policy 
and in light of market activity relating to network assets, the Group 
has assessed the appropriateness of the residual values of its network 
assets. This has resulted in higher residual values and a £4.9 million 
reduction in the depreciation charge for these assets in the year. 
Tax
The Group’s tax charge is £4.1 million (2014: £11.8 million). The current 
year effective tax rate is 21.6 per cent, broadly in line with the prevailing 
rate of corporation tax. The overall effective tax rate is 24.9 per cent 
reflecting the impact of prior year items.
Paul Simpson
Chief Financial Officer
17 June 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 10
Strategic report
Our business model
Harnessing technology to create better ways 
to connect people and organisations
Our key relationships 
Our customers
Our strategic partners
The communities we serve in 
Hull and East Yorkshire
Our key inputs
The skills, expertise and 
experience of our people
Services and technologies from 
our partners
Our technology platforms
Fibre investment in Hull 
and East Yorkshire
Enterprises 
Providing communications technology 
consultancy, solution delivery 
and service management
Served by 
Smart421 and Kcom
Small and medium‑sized businesses 
Providing and managing connectivity, 
network services and cloud services
Served by 
KC and Eclipse
Consumers
Providing broadband, talk, 
TV and other packaged 
communications services in 
Hull and East Yorkshire
Served by 
KC
How we generate revenue KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 11
Strategic report
Our key strengths
Managing complexity 
We manage complexity for customers. 
We take the time to understand their 
desired outcomes, better exploiting 
existing systems alongside integrating 
new systems.
Deploying our expertise 
Our people are experts not just in 
communications and IT but also in the 
increasingly important fields of business 
innovation, technology change and 
digital transformation.
Our approach to technology 
We believe technology is key to 
creating value. Our skills in integration 
and design mean we can bring together 
multiple services to deliver tangible 
business outcomes.
For shareholders
Strong funding and cash generation
Long-term investment opportunity with 
increasing returns
For customers
We help enterprises use collaboration 
and communication tools to enhance 
their business performance
We help small and medium-sized 
businesses to operate more effectively, 
provide better customer service and 
achieve growth
We help consumers live more 
connected lives
For employees
Personal growth and 
development opportunities
Flexible benefits and wellbeing initiatives
For local communities 
in Hull and East Yorkshire
High-quality employment opportunities
Contribution to local economy
Support of local business and 
community initiatives
How we create value
We report our activities under two reporting segments
KC segment 
Consumers and businesses in 
Hull and East Yorkshire
Kcom segment 
Businesses and public 
sector organisations 
across the UK KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 12
Strategic report
Market opportunities and trends
Enterprise market
Technology to support the evolving enterprise 
We expect to see consistent growth 
in the UK enterprise market over 
the medium to long term for our 
key offerings
The UK Systems Integration market is expected to grow 
at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 15.3 per cent 
until 2018
UK Systems Integrations Market, MicromarketMonitor, 2014
Enterprises are increasingly looking for a technology partner 
to provide solutions that deliver clear business outcomes
Today’s large corporate and public sector organisations face the 
challenge of developing technology strategies, designs and services 
that meet their rapidly evolving needs.
They recognise the value of being better connected – to customers, 
partners, employees and other assets and resources – and they 
understand that a joined-up technology architecture is the route 
to achieving this. 
There are benefits that can be exploited across a number 
of technology layers:
Technology architecture: organisations are increasingly seeking 
external support to address digital challenges and opportunities. We are 
well positioned to provide insight on emerging technologies and have a 
strong track record in designing and delivering IT transformation plans 
to meet business goals. 
Contact and collaboration: organisations want to reap the benefits 
of increased collaboration between employees and with partners, and 
manage contact with customers across multiple channels. We have the 
experience and capability to add value in this service area by creating 
flexible, rapidly deployable and easily scalable solutions. 
Systems integration: as enterprises seek to extend their networks 
to connect customers, partners and a growing number of applications, 
we have the expertise to deliver seamless integration of existing systems 
and create a technology environment that facilitates new connections. 
Cloud adoption and integration: hosting systems and applications 
in the cloud present the opportunity for enterprises to reduce capital 
and operational expenditure on IT while increasing business agility 
and flexibility. We are a premier partner of Amazon Web Services and 
the leading UK provider of cutting-edge cloud technology projects.
Identity and access management: a more connected enterprise, 
with authorised users sitting both within and beyond the traditional 
boundaries of an organisation’s IT services, can increase exposure 
to risks. We are uniquely able to use voice and biometric analytics to 
enhance identity and access management and can support bespoke 
solutions to manage cyber threats. 
Data and voice analytics: large enterprises have much to gain by 
using the vast amounts of data generated by customer contact to 
create insight that can help identify new opportunities. The cost 
of storing and processing this data means it has remains largely 
unexploited but our experience in cloud computing means we can 
help organisations deliver a ‘Big Data’ solution cost-effectively. 
Our opportunity within this market is to exploit our deep communications 
and application knowledge and expertise, and that of our partners, 
to build, integrate and manage technology solutions that maximise 
business value for our customers.
End-to-end solutions covering consultancy, solution delivery 
and service management
The propositions we offer to the enterprise market match our capability 
with the opportunities set out by leading global technology analysts 
based on the prevailing CIO agenda.
We offer consultancy, solution delivery and service management 
and support to target sectors including central government, transport 
and logistics, financial services, travel and leisure, retail, utilities 
and manufacturing. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 13
Strategic report
Small and medium‑ sized business market
Enabling operational flexibility and growth
84 per cent of UK organisations have formally adopted 
at least one cloud service, with the cloud services market 
estimated to reach £2.7 billion by 2017
Cloud Industry Forums, 2014
SMBs of all types and sizes need reliable connectivity to run 
their operations
While many rely on their phone and internet services chiefly to sell goods and 
services, connect to customers and suppliers and communicate within the 
workplace, the growing availability of fast and affordable connectivity means 
SMBs are in a better position than ever to exploit cloud-based services to 
address business challenges and achieve growth. 
Cloud technologies include IT infrastructure, platforms and software 
managed and maintained by a third party, delivered over a network 
connection and paid for based on usage. In contrast to traditional 
technology purchasing, where a business buys and owns a fixed IT asset 
such as a server or a software license, cloud technology offers benefits 
that are particularly attractive to the SMB sector, including:
Scalability: the capacity of cloud services can be rapidly scaled up 
and down to cope with growth or changing demand.
Cost: cloud services reduce the need for up-front investment in 
hardware and software, and give SMBs access to technical expertise 
without the cost of dedicated IT resource. 
Flexibility: cloud services support mobility, allowing employees 
to work from any location.
Security: data and systems are stored remotely, supporting business 
continuity in the event of disaster, while automatic software updates 
address online threats.
Our focus in recent years on developing our portfolio of cloud-based 
services means we are well-placed to capitalise on forecast growth 
within this market, both through our expanded offering to our existing 
SMB customer base and by attracting new customers to whom we can 
offer both connectivity and cloud services. 
A significant opportunity lies in the area of cloud-based communication 
and collaboration services, where across our Eclipse and KC brands we 
have an established offering including hosted business voice services, 
business-class email including security and archiving, web and phone 
conferencing, instant collaboration and mobile device management. 
We are seeing an increasing number of SMBs switch to hosted voice 
services when it comes time to upgrade their in-house telephone 
system. Likewise, the need to renew software licenses for services 
such as email and other standard business applications is a key factor 
triggering consideration of a move to a cloud-based solution.
Superfast broadband remains a key opportunity in Hull 
and East Yorkshire
We have continued to see high take-up of our fibre-based broadband 
service among SMBs in Hull and East Yorkshire. The expansion in 
April 2015 of a Government scheme that provides funding for SMBs 
to connect to superfast broadband means we are now able to offer 
the service to businesses beyond our planned roll-out areas. 
We are seeing an increasing number 
of SMBs switch to hosted voice 
services when it comes time to 
upgrade their in‑ house systems KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 14
Strategic report
Market opportunities and trends continued
Video downloads by KC consumer 
customers have increased sixfold 
since 2012
2+ times
KC’s fibre broadband customers download more than twice 
as much data as those using non‑ fibre connections
Consumers are using more devices to connect to more 
online services
UK consumers are increasingly using the internet to improve almost every 
aspect of their lives. This trend continues to drive growth in the overall 
number of broadband connections and demand for faster download speeds. 
Whether for general browsing, gaming, social media, shopping or 
on-demand TV and video, consumers of all ages are spending more time 
online thanks to developments in both technology devices and services.
Ofcom’s 2013 UK Communications Market Report showed that UK 
households have an average of three different types of internet-connected 
device, while a survey by Microsoft later that year indicated that the typical 
UK household has six devices connected to the internet including laptops, 
tablets, smartphones, games consoles and smart TVs. 
The use of data-hungry services and applications including free 
on-demand TV and subscription-based content services such as 
Netflix and Amazon Prime Instant Video has also continued to grow.
The combination of these trends has resulted in significantly increased 
data traffic across our Hull and East Yorkshire network, with the average 
KC consumer broadband customer now downloading more than three 
times as much data each month than in 2012.
Addressing demand through new propositions
One of the ways in which we are addressing the market opportunity for 
growth in fixed-line consumer broadband services is by developing new 
propositions to appeal to the needs of a wider range of customers.
These include low-cost broadband packages aimed at households new 
to fixed-line broadband, and low-cost PCs, laptops and tablets aimed 
at households where the cost of a device is a significant barrier to 
switching to fixed-line broadband.
We have begun a trial of a pay-as-you-go broadband service, aimed 
at consumers who are unable to commit to a fixed-term contract.
We are also seeking opportunities to enhance the content delivered by 
our YouView-based TV service including regionally focused programmes.
Accelerating our deployment of fibre-based broadband
The second way in which we are addressing the market trend for 
increased data usage and demand for faster download speeds is by 
accelerating the deployment of our fibre-based broadband service, 
KC Lightstream, across our Hull and East Yorkshire network.
We have reached our target of making KC Lightstream available to 
more than 45,000 properties by 31 March 2015. The high take-up rates 
achieved have given us the confidence to double the speed of our 
implementation over the next two years so that by 31 March 2017 
it will be available to more than 100,000 local properties.
The typical Lightstream-connected household downloads more than 
twice as much data each month than the average household with 
a standard copper broadband connection. 
Our Lightstream packages accommodate this demand by delivering 
download speeds of 50Mbps (megabits per second), 75Mbps, 100Mbps 
and 250Mbps. They also offer significantly larger data allowances than 
our standard copper broadband products.
Consumer market
Meeting the needs of the connected consumer
Since 2012 the volume of data 
downloaded by our consumer 
customers has trebled KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 15
Strategic report
Case studies
How customers benefit from our services
HM Revenue & Customs
As the UK’s tax authority, HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
ensures money is available to fund public services through 
its collection, compliance and enforcement activities.
HMRC selected Kcom to provide its new virtual contact centre, which 
enabled over 8,000 advisors to deal with more than six million phone calls 
during January, the month leading up to the self-assessment deadline. 
 
The new cloud-based platform uses speech recognition to enable 
customers to speak directly to the advisor best placed to help them. 
Through secure integration with HMRC’s systems, advisors also have 
instant access to the caller’s history. 
Other benefits of the cloud-based platforms we develop for enterprise 
customers include:
 I better handling of fluctuations in demand, improving customer 
experience and advisor productivity;
 I multi-channel capability to support customer contact preferences;
 I lower costs through a usage-based commercial model; and
 I rapid deployment and integration with existing infrastructure.
Enterprises
BPL Business Media Ltd
BPL Business Media Ltd is the leading digital media, print, 
events and research company covering the IT, telecom 
and broadcast sectors. Eclipse’s reputation for service and 
support led BPL to choose it to manage the migration 
of key Microsoft applications to the cloud.
As technology industry experts, BPL understood the productivity and 
cost benefits offered by cloud services. When the time came to upgrade 
licenses for key applications it chose instead to streamline its IT 
infrastructure and evolve to Microsoft’s cloud-based Office 365. 
The solution provided by Eclipse delivers benefits including:
 I fully-managed migration of data with minimal interruption to operations;
 I access to the latest versions of Microsoft applications across all devices 
and from any location;
 I a financially-backed service level agreement guaranteeing 
99.9 per cent uptime;
 I service continuity and support from an official Microsoft Cloud Solution 
Provider (CSP) Partner; and
 I a predictable monthly fee per user that reduces the total cost 
of ownership of key IT services.
Small and medium‑ sized businesses
Hull and East 
Yorkshire residents
As digital services become the default option for accessing 
public services, information and entertainment, KC’s 
broadband services are helping households across Hull and 
East Yorkshire make the most of all the internet offers.
Take-up of broadband across KC’s network grew by 5.9 per cent during 
the year, supported by the introduction of affordable devices and 
low-cost packages aimed at first-time users. The many benefits of being 
online were set out in the UK Broadband Impact Study published by the 
Department of Culture in November 2013 and include:
 I improved job prospects, as being digitally capable is critical in finding 
and securing a job;
 I reduced costs of living. Households offline are missing out on savings 
of £560 per year from shopping and paying bills online; and
 I improved quality of life, especially for older people: 81 per cent of 
people over 55 say being online makes them feel part of modern 
society and less lonely.
Consumers KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 16
Strategic report
Our strategy
We have:
 I achieved our target of passing a further 15,000 premises with our 
Hull and East Yorkshire fibre deployment, maintaining a take-up rate 
in excess of 30 per cent;
 I continued to win new service management contracts and new 
contracts for cloud-based services within the enterprise market; and
 I delivered successfully our first major project for HMRC.
We will:
 I accelerate our deployment of fibre-based broadband to pass a 
further 60,000 properties over the next two years, building on current 
take-up rates;
 I deliver growth in the provision of complex communications solutions 
to the enterprise market; and
 I grow our share of the small and medium-sized business market.
We understand and anticipate the needs of our customers 
and align our products, services and solutions to meet 
those needs and create a unique brand experience. 
 Customers
Progress for 2014/15
Priorities for 2015/16
We have:
 I brought together finance teams from across the business to create 
a business-wide finance team in a single location and with a single 
set of processes;
 I established a joint working approach between our Kcom and Smart421 
brands to better address opportunities in the enterprise market;
 I introduced a competency framework that will set out the skills and 
behaviours required for each role within the business. It will be used to 
deploy our people more flexibly, identify skills gaps, manage performance, 
support employee development and inform succession planning; and
 I implemented a new reward framework that gives managers greater 
flexibility to reward and recognise excellent performance. 
We will:
 I Simplify our business to create a single, agile operating model 
where our people can be deployed flexibly and efficiently for 
the benefit or our customers. 
We want to provide an environment where we attract, 
develop, sustain and enable all of our people to demonstrate 
and apply their capabilities, providing opportunities for 
everyone to reach their full potential.  
 P eopl e
Progress for 2014/15
Priorities for 2015/16
 I delivering growth in the provision of managed services to UK-based 
multi-site organisations;
 I continuing the deployment and take-up of fibre-based broadband 
services to customers in Hull and East Yorkshire; 
 I continuing to grow market share through our ongoing focus on 
delivering inspiring customer experiences; and 
 I thought leadership.
Priorities for 2014/15 
 I continue to develop the skills and capabilities of our people to drive 
the achievement of our strategic objectives in line with our growth 
ambition; and 
 I reward and recognise employees who demonstrate excellence 
in their performance.
Priorities for 2014/15 
Our vision is underpinned by four strategic pillars 
that support us in our pursuit of operational 
excellence as we seek to achieve a leading position 
in our selected markets KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 17
Strategic report
We have:
 I implemented an SAP system and efficient and scalable back-office 
processes within our business-wide finance team; and
 I introduced an e-commerce portal that extends the ability of customers 
to buy online and self-serve.
We will:
 I optimise more of our back-office systems to support a simplified 
operating model;
 I enhance the capability of our e-commerce platform to generate 
further online sales and encourage self-service; and
 I improve cross-business collaboration through the introduction of new 
technology platforms.
Customer service excellence is underpinned by robust 
processes and systems.
 Processes and systems
Progress for 2014/15
Priorities for 2015/16
We have:
 I continued to invest in partnerships that support our customers’ 
objectives, such as that with Amazon Web Services; and
 I put in place plans with strategic partners to transform key networks 
and technology platforms.
We will:
 I exploit the scale and innovation offered by our strategic partnerships 
to deliver market-leading services to customers in our target markets.
We recognise that our customer needs are better met 
if we work seamlessly with carefully selected partners 
to create combined service offerings.
 Part n ers
Progress for 2014/15
Priorities for 2015/16
 I implement efficient, scalable back-office processes and systems in our 
finance function; 
 I extend and improve our customer self-service capability; and 
 I deliver best-in-class levels of customer service.
Priorities for 2014/15 
 I invest in partnerships that support our customers’ objectives; 
 I continue to exploit our strategic relationships to deliver market-leading, 
innovative services; and 
 I maximise our hosted and cloud collaboration services and unified 
communication services offerings.
Priorities for 2014/15  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 18
Strategic report
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Revenue £m
EBITDA
1
 £m
Profit before tax
1
 £m
Net cash inflow from operations £m
Net debt
1.  Before exceptionals.
We track a series of financial and non-financial 
metrics that demonstrate the progress we 
are making against the key pillars of our strategy
£348.0m K 6.1%
2014
2015
£74.3m K 1.3%
2014
2015
£51.5m L 3.2%
2014
2015
Financial
£50.8m K 29.0%
71.3
2014
50.8 2015
£99.3 L 32.4%
2014
2015
The total amount the Group earns 
from the sale of goods or services.
Earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation. 
A measure of profitability.
A measure of profit that does 
not take into account the cost 
of corporation tax.
Cash flow from operating 
activities adjusted 
for non-cash items.
A metric that shows the 
Group’s indebtedness.
Comment
Headline financial metrics broadly in line 
with expectations.
Revenue impacted by continued decline 
in legacy activities.
Anticipated increase in net debt as a result 
of planned increases in capital expenditure.
370.7
348.0
75.3
74.3
49.9
51.5
75.0
99.3
Performance review
page 8 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 19
Strategic report
Impact of health and safety incidents
Availability of fibre-based broadband
Roles with a competency profile
Employee volunteering
35 L 169.2%
13 2014
35 2015
45,000 L 50.0%
30,000 2014
45,000 2015
Non‑ financial
1,233 L 70%
N/A 2014
1,233 2015
1,570 K 59%
3,843
2014
1,570 2015
Number of days lost due to health 
and safety incidents.
Number of premises passed in Hull and East 
Yorkshire by our roll-out of KC Lightstream.
Number of role profiles which have been 
mapped against our new behaviour and 
technical competencies.
Number of employee hours we have 
donated to community projects.
Comment
We focus on continuous education and 
implementation of improved ways of working that 
keep health and safety incidents to a minimum. 
The working days lost relate to just three incidents, 
with one incident accounting for 26 days. 
All incidents are thoroughly investigated 
and action is taken to prevent recurrence 
wherever possible.
Comment
We achieved our target of making our 
fibre-based broadband services available 
to 45,000 homes and businesses in 
Hull and East Yorkshire, by March 2015.
Comment
We introduced a competency framework in 
2014/15 to enable better utilisation of our 
people skills and support career progression.
Comment
In 2014, 2,000 additional volunteering 
hours were devoted to delivering a specific 
Prince’s Trust activity.
In 2015, schools, charities and community 
groups across Hull and East Yorkshire have 
benefited from our employees’ time 
and skills during the year.
Customers Partners People Processes and systems Key:
Corporate responsibility
page 22 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 20
Strategic report
Risk management
Principal risks and uncertainties
This table shows the principal risks and uncertainties, some of 
which are beyond our control, that could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group and have been identified through our risk 
management framework.
This is not an exhaustive list and there may be risks and uncertainties 
of which we are currently unaware, or are believed to be immaterial, 
that could have an adverse effect on the business.
Further information on risk management and our internal control 
systems can be found on page 35.
Risk management framework
Our strategy
page 16
Risk management and internal controls
page 35
Security of customer data, whether it belongs to a 
business or an individual, is of paramount importance 
to us. The risk to data security remains high as a result 
of the volume of external attacks seen across 
all industries.
How does this link to our strategy?
We have run an information security awareness programme 
throughout the year to regularly remind our people of the 
importance of information security and their responsibilities 
in relation to this. We have a clear Data Governance policy 
in place and in the year have appointed data governance 
owners across the business to form a virtual team with 
responsibility for all matters relating to data governance. 
Any incidents, however minor, are investigated and control 
improvements are implemented where necessary to ensure 
that we keep our customer data secure at all times.
Accuracy, security and confidentiality of customer data
This has a direct impact on our customers and also links to our processes and systems pillar of our strategy 
as our processes and systems play a pivotal role in keeping our data accurate, secure and confidential.
Risk identification
Risk recording
Auditing
Risk reporting
Why is it important? What are we doing to mitigate the risk? Change in level of risk
We place significant reliance on the networks and IT 
systems both within our business and in the services 
we provide to our customers. It is therefore essential 
that we build security and resilience into the networks 
and systems to mitigate the risk from attacks.
How does this link to our strategy?
We continue to monitor closely any attempted attacks and 
take actions where necessary to ensure we have robust 
security in place. We have held the ISO 27001 Information 
Security Management standard since 2007 and comply 
also with other security standards as required by our 
customers. We have also made significant investment in our 
IT infrastructure to improve the resilience of our key systems.
Why is it important? What are we doing to mitigate the risk? Change in level of risk
Security and resilience of our networks and IT systems
This links directly to our processes and systems, as well as being key to the customer pillar 
of our strategy as ensuring security of our networks and IT systems is a clear customer need.
Risk decreased
No change
As with all businesses, we are affected by 
a number of risks and uncertainties KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 21
Strategic report
Delivering exceptional service to our customers is one 
of our key strategic aims and therefore the risk of 
failing to do this is a key risk for us to mitigate.
How does this link to our strategy?
We have continued to invest in our people and our systems 
to ensure that we have the right people in the right roles and 
that they have the right tools to provide an exceptional service. 
We also work closely with our partners to ensure that they 
are aligned with us in delivering the best service possible.
Customer service and delivery
This links to all aspects of our strategy and is key to the whole of our business.
Our business model means that we work with several 
key partners to deliver service to our customers; 
they include Amazon Web Services, BT, Cisco, 
ForgeRock, Microsoft.
How does this link to our strategy?
We have dedicated teams to work alongside our key 
partners and we monitor all of our partnerships closely 
to ensure that our partners embody our key values and we 
can work together to resolve any minor issues before they 
become significant. We also have multiple partners in key 
risk areas to mitigate the risk in the event of failure 
of one partner.
Reliance on key partners and suppliers
This links directly to the partners pillar of our strategy and also impacts upon our customers.
Why is it important? What are we doing to mitigate the risk? Change in level of risk
Why is it important? What are we doing to mitigate the risk? Change in level of risk
Recruiting and retaining the right people is crucial 
for the success of the Group in meeting our objectives. 
This applies not only to being able to recruit people 
who embody our values, but also to recruiting people 
with specific technical skills where needed, some of 
which may be in short supply. It also involves developing 
the skills in‑ house and creating internal mobility 
around deploying those skills.
How does this link to our strategy?
We are focused on creating a workplace that both attracts 
and retains people with the skills and behaviour that we 
need. During the year we have created a competency 
framework which will help us identify skills gaps for 
recruitment, enable us to create more opportunities 
for personal growth development. It also links into 
our performance management to help us ensure we 
are identifying and rewarding the people that embody 
the competencies we need to drive the business forward.
Recruitment and retention of the right people
Recruiting and retaining the right people is part of the people pillar of our strategy, whilst also 
having an impact on our customers and the level of service that they receive.
Why is it important? What are we doing to mitigate the risk? Change in level of risk
No change
Customers Partners People Processes and systems Key:
Risk increased
Risk decreased KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 22
Strategic report
We seek to ensure our business is sustainable 
and acts responsibly
Corporate responsibility
Governance
People
page 24
Community
page 26
Customers and suppliers
page 27
Environment
page 25 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 23
Strategic report
We have a number of key stakeholders that are influenced by the way 
that we choose to do business. Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy 
seeks to ensure that we behave consciously in a way that has a positive 
effect on the communities in which we operate, on the people we employ 
and on our customers and suppliers, while minimising our impact on the 
environment. We also acknowledge that CR is of importance to our 
shareholders and that our ethical behaviour as a listed company 
has an influence on the market on which our shares are traded.
As one of the largest employers in the Hull and East Yorkshire region, 
we believe that we have a particular responsibility to make a positive 
difference in the region and much of the community work we do 
is aimed at benefiting the Hull and East Yorkshire community.
There are three key objectives which underpin our CR strategy:
 I to use our expertise in communications technology to create a positive 
impact on all our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate;
 I to promote our values, both internally and in the way in which we do 
business with external stakeholders; and
 I to engage and empower our people so that they can make a positive 
contribution to our CR strategy and the causes that matter to them.
Our CR strategy covers four key areas
All four areas are taken into consideration in key business decisions 
and the Board receives reports on each of these areas as and when 
appropriate. Responsibility for the overall CR strategy sits with 
our Chief Executive, Bill Halbert.
The governance around the four areas is to ensure that we have 
a consistent approach to risk management, strategy development 
and measuring progress.
Why have we chosen these four key areas?
Our people are fundamental to all we do and the way that we operate 
as a business clearly has an impact on how valued our people feel 
and whether or not we are the type of organisation that they want 
to work for.
We believe the environment is a key concern for all businesses and 
that we all have a responsibility to minimise our negative environmental 
impact and make decisions with environmental sustainability in mind.
We operate in a number of different communities across the country, 
particularly in Hull and East Yorkshire where we have a significant presence. 
We take seriously our responsibility to operate in a manner that benefits 
the local community as well as our strategic aims as a business.
Our customers and suppliers are also key stakeholders in the business 
and we believe that we have a responsibility to behave ethically with 
both suppliers and customers. We know also that there are issues that 
are important to our customers that go beyond the products or services 
that they buy from us, and we also seek to address these as part 
of our CR strategy.
People Community
Customers Partners People Processes and systems Key:
How does the CR strategy link to business strategy?
The key areas of our CR strategy are fully inter-linked with the main pillars of our strategy, as shown in the diagram below. We seek to ensure that 
CR initiatives are fully aligned with our overall strategy and that CR considerations are built into all strategic decisions across the business.
Environment Customers and suppliers KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 24
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility continued
People
Development
Our people are one of our key differentiators. We place great importance 
on seeking talented individuals to join our business and motivating and 
developing those who are already part of our team.
Our aim is for our people to embody our values of being open and 
considerate, team-minded, flexible, inspiring and innovative. Many of 
our training programmes and activities focus on these values and the 
behaviours arising from them. We believe demonstrating the right 
behaviours is as important as having the right skills to perform a role.
During the year under review we have started to implement a competency 
framework, which sets out the required competencies for every role, covering 
both behaviour and technical expertise. The framework will enable us not 
only to carry out more effective and meaningful performance management 
but will also open up more development opportunities for our people by 
showing more clearly the competencies required to move to another part 
of the business or to progress.
Human rights
We respect fundamental human rights consistent with the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we ensure that 
all of our internal policies are consistent with this. We do not have 
any current human rights issues.
Health, safety and wellbeing
We continue to place the utmost importance on the health, safety and 
wellbeing of our people, as well as the health, safety and wellbeing of 
our contractors, partners, customers and any members of the public 
who may be affected by our work.
Some of our people are engaged in manual work and we have thorough 
training in place for all of these people, as well as clear Safe Systems of Work 
that must be followed at all times. We launched a mandatory health, 
safety and environment e-learning module towards the end of the year 
for all of our employees. This covered fire safety, workplace hazards, 
health and wellbeing, environmental sustainability, driving safely, 
and responsibilities and reporting. 
A number of our people have to drive on company business and 
we perform risk assessments and provide additional driver training 
for individuals deemed to be at a higher risk. 
We work also with a number of partners when performing manual work 
and we follow clear processes to ensure that our partners are competent 
and operate in a healthy and safe manner. We require all of our suppliers 
of physical services to hold accreditation to a member scheme of Safety 
Schemes in Procurement (SSIP) and we will work with those without this 
to assist them in reaching the required level of competence.
We have been accredited to the BS OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety 
Management standard since 2011 and there were no fatalities or Health 
and Safety Enforcement Notices in the year. We experienced two 
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 
(RIDDOR) incidents (2014: two). There were 35 working days lost in the year 
as a result of just three health and safety incidents (2014: 13 working days). 
Health and safety incidents are closely monitored by the Health and 
Safety team to ensure that any appropriate actions arising as a result 
are identified and then fully implemented.
Education is a key part of our approach to wellbeing. Each year we 
hold health and wellbeing screening sessions which are open to all 
employees and contractors. These are provided by an independent third 
party and provide a free and confidential health assessment measuring 
such things as blood pressure, blood sugar levels, Body Mass Index and 
cholesterol. 585 of our colleagues attended these sessions in the year, 
representing approximately 32 per cent of the workforce. We provide 
also employees with the option to purchase other medical and dental 
services through our flexible benefits scheme.
During the year we launched a new programme called ‘Live Well, 
Work Well’ which provides self-help tools and ideas to our people to 
encourage them to think about their mental and physical wellbeing and 
to seek support and help when they need it to achieve a healthy work-life 
balance. Many of our employees have embraced the programme and have 
shared their ideas and tips through our internal social media platform.
Gender diversity
Gender diversity is the subject of much focus at the current time and we 
believe unreservedly in equal opportunities for all regardless of gender. 
We have clear policies in place which mean that men and women are 
given equal opportunities, both when we are recruiting and then in 
developing and progressing once with us. Since the year end we have 
welcomed a female Director to the Board. As at the year end the gender 
diversity of the Group was as set out in the table below:
Male Female Female %
Board Directors 6 0 0%
Senior management team
1
11 5 31%
Other employees 1,165 635 35%
1.  The senior management team is defined as those reporting directly to the Board of Directors 
and other leaders of key areas of the business.
We are supportive of flexible working wherever possible and 14 per cent 
of our workforce works flexible hours, including 34 per cent of our 
female employees.
During the year we launched a 
new programme called ‘Live Well, 
Work Well’ which provides self‑ help 
tools and ideas to our people KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 25
Strategic report
We report our environmental 
performance internally and 
a network of volunteer Green 
Champions raises awareness 
of environmental matters
Environment
Breakdown of our emissions %
85.9%  Premises – Electricity
7. 1 %    Premises – Other 
fuel and waste
7. 0 %   Business travel
We will continue to monitor our emissions in these areas and 
will continue to enforce the message to minimise our emissions 
wherever possible.
The CO
2
e from electricity purchased has increased by 3.3 per cent in 
the year which reflects an increase in the conversion factor applied to 
electricity in the year. The actual amount of kilowatt-hours of electricity 
used has reduced in the year by 6.9 per cent.
Information for our carbon emissions reporting comes from our own 
internal systems, third party travel companies, suppliers of fuel and 
waste collection and recycling services and from our electricity supplier. 
The method of calculation has been audited in previous years by our 
Internal Audit team and uses the UK Government conversion factors 
for company reporting.
Environmental measures
Area Actual
Target 
2014/15
Target 
met
Target 
2015/16
Total CO
2
e 
emissions 
22,063 
tonnes
Not to exceed 
2013/14 levels of 
21,306 tonnes
1
To return to 
2013/14 
levels of 
21,306 
tonnes
Waste sent 
to landfill
20.2 
tonnes
Not to exceed 
2013/14 levels 
of 27.8 tonnes
2
Not to exceed 
2014/15 levels 
of 20.2 tonnes
1.  The target for 2014/15 has been adjusted to reflect the restated comparatives for 2013/14. 
The restatement is to show the 2013/14 emissions as calculated using the same methodology 
and assumptions as in 2014/15, which are fully compliant with the UK Government conversion 
factors for company reporting for the relevant years.
2.  This number reflects actual tonnes of waste sent to landfill rather than CO 2 e tonnes, which 
can be subject to changes in assumptions or methods of calculation year on year. The target 
for 2014/15 was previously shown in CO 2 e tonnes.
The impact of climate change
There has been a significant amount of flooding across the country over 
recent years and we take the risk of flooding seriously. Over the last few 
years we have installed powerful water pumps and flood alarms at the sites 
we have identified as having a potential flood risk, as well as installing flood 
barriers to basement doors and replacing air bricks at selected sites. During 
the year none of our buildings or equipment have been affected by flooding 
but we continue to monitor the risk and regularly practice our business 
continuity procedures to ensure we are prepared should an incident occur.
The main environmental impact of the business arises from our use 
of electricity, which makes up 85.9 per cent of our CO
2
e emissions. This 
includes all our premises, such as offices, data centres and our various 
network sites both nationally and in the Hull and East Yorkshire region.
As a business, we continue to work on reducing our emissions wherever 
possible. We have recycling facilities at all of our main offices and have 
introduced recycling bins for dry mixed materials during the year to make 
it easier for more items to be recycled. This has led to 94.1 per cent of 
our waste being recycled in 2014/15 compared to 92.5 per cent in the 
prior year. We report our environmental performance internally through 
a ‘Green Dashboard’ on our intranet and we have a network of volunteer 
Green Champions across the business, that helps to raise awareness 
of environmental matters.
Emissions in the year
The table below sets out our annual emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e.
Area
Year ended 
31 March 2015 
CO2e
Year ended
31 March 2014
CO2e
Restated
1
Combustion of fuel and 
operation of facilities
3,110 2,962
Purchase of electricity 18,953 18,344
Total 22,063 21,306
Tonnes of CO
2
e per £’000 
of revenue
0.063 0.057
1.  The reported figures for 2013/14 have been restated to use the UK Government conversion 
factors for 2014 and methods of calculation which are consistent with those used in 2014/15.
During the year the CO
2
e created from the combustion of fuel and 
operation of facilities has increased by 5.0 per cent. This reflects a 
slightly higher use of refrigerant gases in the year as a result of the 
replacement of the, now obsolete, R22 gas in a number of our air 
conditioning systems, plus an increase of 3.7 per cent in our business 
travel, the majority of which is due to an increase in domestic and 
short haul air travel. Whilst we always encourage our employees 
to travel only when necessary, we acknowledge also that some 
travel is necessary in order to do business. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 26
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility continued
Community
Supporting the local economy in Hull and East Yorkshire
The Hull and East Yorkshire region is the birthplace of our business and we 
are proud to play our part in local life in the area. We employ 957 people 
in Hull, representing 53 per cent of our Group, and we contribute over 
£150 million to the local economy each year
1
. We make our business 
decisions with the potential impact on the local community very much in 
mind, both in Hull and East Yorkshire and in the other communities in which 
our people are located. We have no material social issues.
Unemployment rates in Hull have fallen over the last year but continue 
to be high in comparison to England as a whole
2
; this has strengthened 
our resolve to support the local economy wherever we can. Our KC brand’s 
‘buy local’ approach when purchasing goods and services has resulted 
in us directly supporting over 175 local suppliers over the last year.
Our KC Invest fund, which was launched in 2011 to provide start-up 
and growth financing for local businesses in the digital and technology 
sectors, continues to operate. During the year we also became a key 
partner of a community interest company called For Entrepreneurs Only, 
which is based in Hull and seeks to help boost the local economy by 
creating more private sector jobs for the future. We have provided 
financial support and our people have acted as guest speakers at events 
to help entrepreneurs learn more about the reality of running a business.
We continue to support the Hull’s John Cracknell Youth Enterprise Bank, 
which has provided grants to 14 young people to help them set up and 
develop their businesses over the last year. We believe that supporting 
young people at the outset of their careers helps to develop the employers 
of the future, thereby supporting the long-term local economy. As part 
of this we support the Hull Employability Charter and have taken on 
12 apprentices over the past year to demonstrate our commitment. 
During the year we have also engaged with 23 primary schools, eight 
secondary schools and three colleges to support the development of 
employability skills, provide one to one reading support, take part in careers 
events and inspire interest in science, technology, engineering and maths.
1.  DTZ Consulting, 2015.
2.  For the 12 months to 30 September 2014 unemployment in the Hull City Council area was 
12.75 per cent compared to 6.61 per cent for England as a whole. Data taken from the 
Humber Data Observatory.
Increasing broadband penetration in Hull and East Yorkshire
The government has highlighted ‘digital exclusion’ as a key risk facing the UK 
at the current time. People may be digitally excluded due a lack of internet 
access or a lack of digital skills. Digital inclusion results in people feeling more 
connected with their families and communities, increases the job opportunities 
available and even enables people to save money through shopping online, 
and to access government services that are increasingly moving online.
We are looking to help tackle digital inclusion in a number of ways:
 I we are making a significant investment in the provision of superfast 
broadband, to enable people to communicate and do business online 
at download speeds including 250Mbps. Our fibre deployment began 
in 2012 and has continued throughout the year, with more than 
45,000 premises passed as at 31 March 2015 and a commitment 
to have passed 100,000 premises by 31 March 2017;
 I we have introduced new products and packages that provide 
low-cost PCs, tablets or laptops to new customers. We have also 
launched our cheapest ever broadband package to encourage 
more people to get online; and
 I we are working with local councils and other organisations to provide 
equipment and volunteers to run courses and drop-in sessions to teach 
digital skills, including in local community centres.
Improving wellbeing in Hull and East Yorkshire
During the year we announced a partnership with Hull 2020 to introduce a 
number of ‘Safe at Home’ services to be used across the region. Hull 2020 
is a group of nine public service organisations committed to enabling the 
people of Hull to improve their own health and wellbeing.
In October 2014 we began trialling a ‘cold alarm’, which is a wireless 
device that monitors the temperature in a home and sends an alert via 
the internet to an alert centre or family member if the temperature falls 
below an agreed threshold. The devices can be used in the homes of 
people at risk from the cold, including older people and those with 
long-term health problems.
By launching technology-enabled care services such as the cold alarm, 
we aim to help give vulnerable people and their relatives peace of mind 
and give people an opportunity to live independently in their own homes 
for longer.
Volunteering
Our people are keen to volunteer to help with local community activities. 
We continue to operate formal partnerships with schools, charities and 
projects in the areas local to our offices across the country. In total our 
people donated 1,570 hours to community volunteering during the year 
to 31 March 2015.
We have continued this year in our patronage of The Prince’s Trust, the 
UK’s leading youth charity. The Trust aims to change lives by offering 
training, personal development, business start-up support, mentoring 
and advice to young people. This year we have hosted and supported 
events to help The Trust expand its work in Hull and East Yorkshire.
Group charity partner
For the last nine years we have focused employee fundraising around 
a charity partnership. Every three years, we work with a charity partner 
chosen by our people from a shortlist of UK-registered national charities. 
In April 2012 we began a partnership with Sparks, a charity dedicated 
to funding pioneering research into conditions affecting babies, children 
and mothers-to-be. In the three years to 31 March 2015 our people raised 
over £235,000 for Sparks through a variety of sporting challenges, dress 
down days, auctions, cake bakes and many other activities.
From 1 April 2015 our new charity partner is Teenage Cancer Trust, 
selected again by our people. Teenage Cancer Trust is dedicated to 
ensuring that young people diagnosed with cancer receive the very 
best care and support from the moment they are diagnosed. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 27
Strategic report
We have also provided funding to a local theatre group to develop 
and perform plays addressing cyber bullying and online grooming. 
These plays have been performed in primary schools across the region 
to teach children about the importance of online safety.
Continuity of supply
We believe that continuity of supply is essential for many of our 
customers who rely on us for their business communications or for 
access to online services. We therefore continually review our partners 
and suppliers to ensure that we are able to have continuity of supply, 
or a viable alternative, should one of our key suppliers unexpectedly fail.
We are reliant on electricity across much of our business and therefore 
the threat of a significant power outage has been identified as a potential 
risk to the business. To mitigate this risk, each of our key sites has an on-site 
dedicated power supply back-up, with either permanent or mobile 
generator support in the event of long-term power outages. These are all 
tested at regular intervals. We have also invested significantly in recent 
years to ensure that our internal systems have resilience and back-up 
support should any of our key systems fail.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Kathy Smith
Company Secretary
17 June 2015
We have a responsibility to our 
customers to ensure we tackle the 
issues that are important to them
 Customers and suppliers
Ethical sourcing 
We believe that we have responsibilities in relation to our customers 
and suppliers, to treat them fairly and to do business with them in 
the right way. 
We also have a responsibility to make sure that our suppliers operate with 
the same ethics and standards as us. All of our suppliers are expected to 
sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct; this sets out our expectations in 
relation to laws and ethical standards, labour practices, risk management 
and business continuity. We have regular meetings with our key suppliers 
and work closely with them to ensure that we understand the way in 
which their business operates and their approach to sustainability 
and their own corporate responsibility.
We also know that we have a responsibility to our customers to ensure 
we tackle the issues that are important to them, beyond the products 
and services that they buy from us.
Online safety
One area in which we believe we have a corporate responsibility to our 
customers is in relation to online safety. In October 2014 we launched 
free parental controls on our broadband service which any consumer 
customer may sign up for. We are applying these controls automatically 
for all new customers, with customers able to opt out if they wish to. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 28
Directors’ report
Graham Holden (55)
Non-Executive Chairman
Tony Illsley (58)
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Bill Halbert (67)
Chief Executive
Board of Directors
Liz Barber (49)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office
Graham joined the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director in 
November 2007 and became 
Non-Executive Chairman on 
1 April 2014.
Tony joined the Board in 
June 2009.
Bill joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in 
September 2006 before stepping 
up to become Executive Chairman 
in July 2009. Bill then was 
appointed as Chief Executive 
on 1 April 2014.
Liz joined the Board in April 2015.
Previous experience
Graham is a Chartered 
Accountant and graduate of the 
Harvard Advanced Management 
Programme. He was Chief 
Executive of Marshalls plc from 
2001 until his retirement in 
October 2013, having previously 
been the Group Financial Director 
from 1992 to 2001.
Tony has held a variety of senior 
business positions including 
Chief Executive of Telewest 
Communications PLC, President of 
Pepsi Cola Asia Pacific and Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director of easyJet plc.
Bill has worked in the information 
technology industry for over 
40 years and brings a wealth of 
experience and strategic insight 
to the KCOM Group Board. 
During his time in the industry 
he founded and was the CEO for 
13 years for Syntegra, BT’s global 
consultancy and systems 
integration subsidiary.
Liz is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants, qualifying 
with Ernst & Young in 1991 and 
being promoted to Partner in 
2001. She was then Head of Audit 
for the North of England from 
2006 to 2010, when she joined 
Kelda Group as Group Director 
of Finance.
Tony is a Non-Executive Director 
of Quindell Plc, Camelot Global 
Services Limited and Camelot 
UK Lotteries Limited.
External appointments 
Graham is a Visiting Fellow in the 
School of Management at 
Cranfield University. 
Bill’s other directorships include 
Excelsys Ltd, Jade Solutions 
Limited and Tacit Connexions Ltd. 
Liz works full-time as the Group 
Director of Finance, Regulation and 
Markets for Kelda Group. She is a 
Non-Executive member of the 
Board Council for Leeds University, 
a member of the Prince of Wales 
Accounting for Sustainability Group 
and a Steering Group member 
of the Two Percent Club which 
seeks to support more balanced 
board memberships.
Tony is currently Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and is 
also a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Board Committees 
Graham is the Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee 
and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Bill is not a member of any 
of the Board Committees.
Liz became a member of the 
Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees on 
appointment and will become 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
from the AGM on 31 July 2015.
Other Directors 
Kevin Walsh was an Executive Director of the Board from May 2004 until his retirement from the Board on 29 July 2014. Kevin did not sit on any 
Board Committees whilst with the Group. Kevin ceased to be an employee of the Group on 31 October 2014. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 29
Directors’ report
Peter Smith (57)
Non-Executive Director
Kathy Smith (41)
Company Secretary
Paul Simpson (46)
Chief Financial Officer
Martin Towers (62)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office
Peter joined the Board in 
January 2015.
Kathy took on the role of 
Company Secretary in July 2010.
Paul joined the Board in May 2004 
when he was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer, having joined 
the business in September 2000.
Martin joined the Board in 
June 2009. He has indicated his 
intention to retire from the Board 
at the AGM on 31 July 2015.
Previous experience
Peter has worked for LEK 
Consulting LLP for 27 years. Prior 
to joining LEK, Peter worked for 
Schlumberger Wireline in the 
Middle East for seven years, as 
a field engineer and line manager 
in the oil industry.
Kathy is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales, qualifying 
with Deloitte. She joined KCOM 
Group in September 2005 as 
Head of Internal Audit and is 
now Director of Risk alongside 
her Company Secretary role. 
She is a Graduate member 
of the Chartered Institute of 
Secretaries and Administrators.
Paul is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales, qualifying with Price 
Waterhouse. Prior to joining the 
Group, Paul worked in transaction 
services at Ernst & Young, which 
included working on the flotation 
of KCOM Group.
Martin is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales and has held 
a number of senior finance roles 
including Group Finance Director 
at Kelda Group PLC, Allied Textile 
Group PLC and the Spring Ram 
Corporation PLC.
External appointments 
Peter works full-time for LEK 
Consulting LLP as a member of 
the Global Leadership Team.
None. Martin is Chairman of Norcros PLC 
and is a Non-Executive Director of 
RPC Group PLC and Tyman PLC.
Board Committees 
Peter became a member of 
the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees 
on appointment.
Paul is not a member of any 
of the Board Committees.
Martin is the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, but will step 
down from this role at the AGM on 
31 July 2015. He is also a member 
of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees and 
will remain so until his retirement 
from the Board in July.
Kathy is the secretary for all of 
the Board Committees. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 30
Directors’ report
Board length of service
Corporate governance
Appointment and replacement of Directors
It is the policy of the Board that all Directors wishing to continue in 
office will stand for election or re-election each year at the AGM.
The Articles of Association allow the Board to appoint a new Director at 
any time; however, the Articles state that the new Director will only hold 
office until the next AGM, at which point he or she must stand for 
election or vacate the office.
The Nomination Committee, and the Board as a whole, have reviewed 
the performance and contribution of Graham Holden, Bill Halbert, 
Tony Illsley and Paul Simpson and has no hesitation in proposing the 
re-appointment of each of these Board members. We believe we have a 
diverse and balanced Board which meets the current needs of the business 
and therefore all of these Directors are recommended for re-election on the 
basis of their contribution to this. Martin Towers has indicated his intention to 
retire from the Board at the AGM and therefore will not stand for re-election. 
In addition, the Nomination Committee is pleased to recommend both 
Peter Smith and Liz Barber for appointment to the Board. Peter joined the 
Board on 5 January 2015 and brings with him a vast amount of experience 
across a number of industries where he has helped many businesses from 
a strategic perspective. The Nomination Committee believes that Peter 
will be able to use his experience to make a significant contribution to the 
Group, particularly as it goes through a period of strategic change. Liz Barber 
joined the Group on 7 April 2015 and brings with her significant financial 
expertise, as a previous audit partner for Ernst & Young and as the current 
Group Director of Finance for Kelda Group. Further biographical details 
for each of the Directors can be found on pages 28 and 29. 
Director Appointment 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Graham Holden 27 November 2007 
Liz Barber 7 April 2015
Bill Halbert 1 September 2006 
Tony Illsley 2 June 2009
Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 
Peter Smith 5 January 2015
Martin Towers 2 June 2009 
All Board members 
contribute to all aspects 
below. Here are their 
key areas of expertise: Graham Holden
Liz Barber
Bill Halbert
Tony Illsley
Paul Simpson
Peter Smith
Martin Towers
Financial
Sector
Regional
Regulated environment
Strategic
PLC Board
The Articles of Association also state that the Company may remove a 
Director by ordinary resolution with special notice before the expiration 
of their period of office. There have been no Directors removed from 
office during the year.
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of the Non-Executive Directors 
each year, taking into account the length of tenure, relationships and 
circumstances as well as considering the behaviour of each Director 
at Board meetings and whether or not they contribute to unbiased 
and independent debate. All of the Non-Executive Directors at the 
time of this report and the Non-Executive Chairman were independent 
upon appointment and the Board believes that all five remain wholly 
independent in relation to the criteria set out in Provision B.1.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
Commitments of the Non-Executive Chairman
Our Non-Executive Chairman, Graham Holden, does not currently have 
any other significant commitments.
UK Corporate Governance Code
From 1 April 2014 to 29 July 2014 the Board was non-compliant with 
provision B.1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires 
at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman to be independent 
Non-Executive Directors. During this period there were two Non-Executive 
Directors and three Executive Directors. The risk created by this 
imbalance was mitigated by the Chairman consciously ensuring that 
the views of the Non-Executive Directors were given appropriate 
prominence in the Board meetings. The retirement of Kevin Walsh 
as Executive Director on 29 July 2014 rectified this non-compliance 
and the Board has been compliant with this provision ever since, 
with three independent Non-Executive Directors and just two 
Executive Directors as at 31 March 2015.
In addition, the Board was non-compliant with provision C.3.1 of the 
Code from 1 April 2014 to 5 January 2015, which requires the Audit 
Committee membership to be made up of at least three independent 
Non-Executive Directors. This was rectified on 5 January 2015 when 
Peter Smith was appointed to the Board and became a member of 
the Audit Committee. The risk created by this non-compliance was 
mitigated through the Committee members spending additional time 
meeting with members of the business and the external auditors to 
ensure matters for discussion were fully explored and all potential 
viewpoints taken into consideration. At the end of the year there were 
three independent Non-Executive Directors on the Audit Committee.
Other than the exceptions noted above, the Board considers that it 
has complied with all the detailed provisions of the September 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2015. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 31
Directors’ report
UK Corporate Governance Code continued
The UK Corporate Governance Code was updated in September 2014 
and the revised version applies to financial years beginning on or after 
1 October 2014. We will therefore report against the revised Code 
in our reporting for the year ending 31 March 2016.
The Board as a whole is committed entirely to the principle of 
achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the Financial 
Reporting Council website at www.frc.org.uk.
Board Committees
The Board has established and delegated specific responsibilities to the 
following Committees. Each Committee reports back to the Board after 
each meeting and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all 
Board members, where appropriate, to ensure that the whole Board is 
aware of the matters considered by the Committees.
Each Committee has its own report which sets out the membership 
and attendance at the Committee meetings during the year, as well 
as further information on the role of Committee. The Audit Committee 
report can be found on page 36, the Nomination Committee report 
on page 34 and the Remuneration Committee report on page 42.
How the Board operates 
The Board has eight scheduled meetings a year, with other ad hoc meetings 
held as needed. During the year, the Board met 10 times. The two additional 
meetings were specifically held to consider the appointment of a new 
Non-Executive Director and to receive an update on an internal project. 
Attendance at the meetings during the year is shown in the table on the 
right. Six of the meetings were preceded the evening before by an informal 
meeting, allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
The Board agenda is set for each meeting by the Chairman with input 
from the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary. In addition, 
any of the Non-Executive Directors can request a matter to be added 
to the agenda at any time. At each meeting the Board considers 
business performance, including reviewing past performance and 
considering the future long-term success of the Group. There is a 
standing agenda item in relation to strategy and this forms the basis 
for discussion and debate around all aspects of strategy, along with 
updates on progress in relation to the strategic aims of the business.
The Board receives reports each month on financial performance, 
people matters, investor relations, governance, compliance and risk. 
These reports are circulated every month, regardless of whether or not 
a Board meeting is scheduled. There are also regular updates on key 
projects and strategic programmes and regular reports on cyber risk, 
health and safety and corporate responsibility.
Board meetings are held at various KCOM Group sites throughout the 
year and the Board seeks to regularly meet both formally and informally 
with senior management from the four brands and the supporting 
Group functions to gain further insight into the day-to-day operation of the 
business and the key risks and opportunities facing each part of the business.
There is a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board which is reviewed 
and updated each year. This schedule requires that specific matters 
relating to budgets, strategy, performance against objectives, financial 
reporting, internal controls, communications, remuneration and 
governance, along with any proposed changes to business operations 
or the structure and capital of the Company, are referred to the Board 
for consideration and approval.
The Board also reviews contractual clauses escalated to the Board 
through our Contracting Risk framework and business cases escalated 
in accordance with our Group-wide delegations of authority.
The Board considers the role of the Company Secretary to be key in 
ensuring that the Group and the Board have the right governance in place 
and that Board processes follow best practice. The Company Secretary 
meets with each of the Directors individually as necessary to discuss 
governance-related matters and provides a governance report to the Board 
on a monthly basis. The Directors are able also to obtain independent 
professional advice at the Group’s expense whenever necessary.
Attendance at Board meetings
 
Director
Number of 
meetings
Out of  
possible
Graham Holden (Chairman) 10 10
Bill Halbert 10 10
Tony Illsley 10 10
Paul Simpson 10 10
Peter Smith 3 3
Martin Towers 10 10
Kevin Walsh 3 3
Training and development
The Board receives monthly updates on governance-related matters 
and more formal training where appropriate. Potential training needs 
are discussed as part of individual performance evaluation, plus each 
Director is given the opportunity to flag any additional training 
requirements which they may have identified as part of the annual 
Board evaluation process.
New Directors joining the Group are given a broad and comprehensive 
induction to the business, consisting of site visits, meetings with key 
personnel and detailed information relating to each brand and the 
Group as a whole, as well as training specifically in relation to the 
duties of Directors and their role on the Board.
Relations with shareholders 
It is essential that we communicate effectively with our shareholders 
and understand their views. Our Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer meet regularly with our institutional shareholders to discuss the 
strategy, performance and governance of the Company and to obtain 
feedback. During the year, meetings have been held with 30 such 
shareholders. There are also general presentations following the half 
year and final results announcements each year.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is included as part of the 
monthly report to the Board and discussed at each Board meeting, 
along with details of any analyst reports, to ensure that each of our 
Directors has a clear understanding of the views of our shareholders. 
Our Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available 
to meet face-to-face with our institutional shareholders if requested to 
do so, although no such requests have been received during the year.
A large number of our individual shareholders live in the Hull and East 
Yorkshire region and, as a Group, we are very much involved in local 
life in the area. More information about our community activities is 
detailed in our CR section on page 26. We believe that being a part of 
the community enables us to learn more about our local shareholders 
and the issues that matter to them. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 32
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
Relations with shareholders continued
We consider our AGM to be an important means of communication 
between our shareholders and Directors. All of our Directors are 
available at the AGM to answer questions and we seek to encourage 
shareholder participation by inviting questions in advance.
We use electronic voting at our AGM each year. The results of voting, 
including the proxy votes lodged, are shown to shareholders in the 
meeting and are made available subsequently on our website.
All of our Company announcements are published on our website, 
www.kcomplc.com, together with presentation materials and 
financial reports, so that all of our shareholders can keep up 
to date with our news.
Performance evaluation 
In the summer of 2014 an externally facilitated Board evaluation was 
performed by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent 
Audit Limited, which does not provide any other services to the Group. 
The review covered the Board and its Committees and the results 
of the review were very positive, with no areas of major concern.
There were a few areas noted for possible improvement, which are 
noted in the table above.
In 2015 the intention is to return to using an internal evaluation process, 
facilitated by the Company Secretary. This has proved extremely useful 
in the past and has therefore been scheduled for the first quarter of the 
financial year.
As noted in the table above, the Non-Executive Chairman meets with 
each Board member individually at least on an annual basis to discuss 
their own performance and to identify any areas for development or 
potential training needs. In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet 
separately to discuss the performance of the Non-Executive Chairman. 
The feedback from this meeting is then passed on to the Non-Executive 
Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors have regular dialogue with each other 
concerning Board matters and the Non-Executive Chairman met 
with the Non-Executive Directors, without the other Directors present, 
at regular intervals during the year.
Business model and key performance indicators 
Details of our business model can be found on pages 10 and 11 
and our key performance indicators are on pages 18 and 19.
Proposal to re-appoint the external auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have advised of their willingness to 
continue in office and have confirmed their continued independence. 
Following consideration of the relationship with the external auditors, 
as described on page 38, the Audit Committee has recommended to 
the Board that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are re-appointed and a 
resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM. They have 
provided an independent audit opinion on these accounts which can 
be found on pages 58 to 63.
Powers of the Directors 
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may 
exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
Articles of Association, relevant statutes and any special resolution of 
the Company. 
The Articles of Association give the Directors the power to authorise 
conflicts of interest in relation to transactions or arrangements with 
the Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Conflicts 
of interest are a standing agenda item at Board meetings and each 
Director proposes any potential conflicts for consideration as soon as 
they become aware of them. The Director with the potential conflict 
is excluded from the vote to authorise the transaction or arrangement.
Any conflicts that are authorised are then logged on a register, along 
with details of any specific terms imposed upon authorisation. Internal 
controls are in place to ensure that transactions or arrangements which 
may lead to a potential conflict of interest are conducted on an arm’s 
length basis.
Area identified What have we done?
More debate and discussion around future 
strategy and the review of past decisions.
There is now a standing agenda item at each Board meeting on strategy which has led to 
detailed and robust debates throughout the year. A formal process has also now been put in 
place to review past decisions and present the outcomes back to the Board, which was previously 
covered informally.
More frequent discussion specifically 
in relation to risk.
Specific discussions around risks and the risk appetite of the Group have been held 
during the year, both as part of the Board meetings and in separate meetings where 
deemed useful.
A clear definition of roles for the 
Chairman and Chief Executive.
Clearly defined role profiles are now in place for the Chairman and Chief Executive, as well 
as for the Senior Independent Director.
More formal individual 
performance reviews.
Regular formal performance reviews have now been put in place for each of the Directors 
with the Non-Executive Chairman, and for the Non-Executive Chairman with the Senior 
Independent Director.
Performance evaluation  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 33
Directors’ report
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 March 2015, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the voting rights in the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company. As at 17 June 2015, there had been no additional disclosures received.
Number of shares with 
voting rights
% of total 
voting rights
Invesco Asset Management 71,999,671 13.94
Aberforth Partners LLP 25,113,106 4.86
Fidelity Worldwide Investment 22,503,530 4.36
Hargreave Hale 20,512,246 3.97
Aviva Investors 20,095,616 3.89
M&G Investments 18,808,266 3.64
Norges Bank Investment Management 15,494,141 3.00
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared 
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU). Under company law, the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 I select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 I make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
 I state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and 
 I prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Group’s website, www.kcomplc.com. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules 
Each of the Directors as at 31 March 2015 whose names and functions 
are listed on pages 28 and 29 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 I the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company; and 
 I the Strategic report and Directors’ report contained in the annual 
report includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Conclusion on the annual report
The Board is responsible for reviewing the annual report and, after 
consideration, has concluded that the annual report, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess performance, business model 
and strategy. In reaching this conclusion, the Board has considered 
the different types of shareholders that the Group has, the reports 
and presentations that the Board has received during the year and 
the reports submitted to the Audit Committee during the year by both 
the internal and external auditors and combined this with the Board’s 
collective knowledge of the business, gained through both formal 
and informal meetings and personal interactions across the Group 
at all levels. Further information on the reports submitted to the 
Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee report on 
pages 36 to 38.
Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association 
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may 
be made by passing a special resolution at a general meeting 
of the shareholders. 
Going concern
The Directors confirm that, having reviewed the Group’s budget and 
forecasts along with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group, they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly 
the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 34
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
 
Director
Number of 
meetings
Out of  
possible
Graham Holden (Chairman) 3 3
Tony Illsley 3 3
Peter Smith 1 1
Martin Towers 3 3
The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the 
year is shown in the table above.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and 
meets as often as required. It is responsible for reviewing the structure, 
size and composition of the Board and ensuring that the balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is right for the Group, 
both for the current challenges and opportunities facing the Group 
and the skills and expertise that are expected to be needed on the 
Board in the future.
Board of Directors
page 28
Board Appointments policy
We have a Board Appointments policy, which sets out the procedure 
that will be followed in the event of a Board vacancy being identified, 
along with our approach to diversity on the Board.
The key principle set out in the policy is that the Board will always seek 
to appoint on merit. The Board recognises the benefits of diversity of 
all types, including gender, professional and ethnic diversity, and will 
always aim to develop the diversity of the Board in order to promote a 
diversity of perspective in the boardroom, while remaining true to the 
key principle of appointing on merit.
The Board Appointments policy also states that the Nomination 
Committee will only use firms that have signed up to the Executive Search 
Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best 
practice, that female applicants are given the same consideration and 
opportunity as male applicants and that gender diversity is considered 
specifically when drawing up a list of potential candidates.
Balance of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors (as at 31 March)
 Executive Directors
 33.3%
 Non-Executive Directors
 66.6%
Nomination 
Committee
report
Graham Holden
Chairman
In addition, through the Board Appointments policy, the Board has 
committed to: 
 I continue to seek to identify and develop the talented individuals 
in the Group, regardless of gender;
 I review regularly the proportion of women at each level in the 
organisation to ensure that equal opportunities are being presented 
to individuals at every level; and
 I always ensure that there is a confidential way in which concerns can 
be raised without fear of repercussion if anyone, regardless of gender, 
has a concern about the opportunities available to them.
When Board vacancies arise, the Nomination Committee is responsible 
for preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment and then identifying and nominating candidates 
for the approval of the Board. In order to identify suitable candidates 
the Committee uses open advertising or the services of external 
advisors to facilitate the search, where appropriate.
Appointments during the year
Since the last annual report, two new Non-Executive Directors have 
joined the Board; Peter Smith on 5 January 2015 and Liz Barber on 
7 April 2015. For each appointment the Nomination Committee set 
out the qualities that the Board required and an external executive 
search firm was appointed to lead the search. The firm chosen was 
Hanson Green, which provides no other services to the Group.
The Nomination Committee believes that both Peter and Liz were 
the outstanding candidates for the roles that were described by 
the Committee. Peter brings extensive experience of working with 
a wide range of businesses on their strategies and joins the Board 
at a time when there is significant work ongoing in relation to the 
strategic direction of the Group. When Martin Towers indicated his 
intention to retire from the business at the AGM in July 2015, the 
Nomination Committee sought a new Non-Executive Director with 
significant financial expertise. Liz brings this to the Group as well as 
experience of working in a large business with similar characteristics 
to KCOM Group.
Other Committee responsibilities
The Committee is also responsible for considering succession planning 
for the Directors and for key senior management across the Group, 
although this is a matter also considered by the full Board. This includes 
identifying future talent within the business and providing experience 
and training as appropriate to enable individuals to be ready to step up 
to the next level.
The Nomination Committee reviews annually the time required from 
each of the Directors to perform their roles effectively. Following this 
review, the Committee is satisfied that each of the Directors has 
committed sufficient time during the year to fulfil their duties as 
Directors of the Company.
The Committee reviews the re-appointment of all of the Directors 
standing for re-election at the AGM, giving regard to their performance 
and ability to continue to contribute to the requirements of the Board. 
The Nomination Committee then makes recommendations to the 
Board on whether each Director should be put forward for re-election.
Information on the recommendations for re-election this year can be 
found on page 30.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are in line with the 
recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA 
Guidance on Terms of Reference for Nomination Committees. Copies of 
the Terms of Reference are available from the Company Secretary and 
are on our website, www.kcomplc.com. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 35
Directors’ report
Risk management responsibilities
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for deciding the acceptable level 
of risk that the Group may take to achieve its objectives and has held 
specific discussions around this during the year, to ensure that the level 
of risk being taken across the Group is appropriate. It is also responsible 
for ensuring that the Group maintains sound internal control and risk 
management systems, as well as reviewing the effectiveness of those 
systems. In order to do this, the Board receives regular reports from 
senior management, the internal auditors and the external auditors, 
via the Audit Committee, on the effectiveness of the systems of internal 
control and risk management. The Board is satisfied that the systems are 
embedded within the day-to-day activities of the business and cover all 
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and that the Group continues to be compliant with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code relating to internal control.
Senior management
All of our key risks are now recorded and regularly updated on an online portal 
and senior managers are responsible for reviewing the portal to ensure that 
all relevant risks are recorded and that the risks are being appropriately 
mitigated within reasonable timescales. There are also a number of forums 
for senior management, such as a Security Forum, where senior managers 
get together on a regular basis to discuss specific risks and trends and to 
review the work being done across the Group to mitigate any issues.
Audit Committee
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee in relation to risk management 
are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 36 to 38.
Financial risk management
Each part of our business produces an annual budget which is 
reviewed by senior management and ultimately approved by the Board. 
A longer-term five year plan is also in place which is updated annually 
and approved by the Board to enable it to have a clear longer-term 
view of financial projections.
We also prepare a quarterly forecast; performance against budget 
and quarterly forecast is monitored at monthly senior management 
meetings and reviewed by the Board each month. Further information 
about the financial risk management policies in place, and in particular 
the way in which credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk are managed, is in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Controls around consolidation 
The basis of consolidation for the financial statements is detailed 
in Note 2 to the financial statements. Strong controls are in place 
around the process for preparing consolidated accounts. The work 
of consolidation is performed by experienced, qualified accountants 
and a review of the consolidation forms part of the audit work 
performed by our external auditors. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are set out 
on pages 20 and 21 of the Strategic report.
Risk management is key to all that we do as a business, both in 
managing and mitigating risks where appropriate and also in 
ensuring we take risks where necessary and do so with a clear 
understanding of the risk that we are taking. We believe that 
knowingly taking some level of risk is necessary to enable the 
business to remain competitive and to maximise benefits to our 
shareholders, while ensuring we do not take risks that adversely 
impact our other stakeholders.
Risk management is built into all of our processes. We also have 
a risk team, which has specific responsibility for health, safety, 
environmental and legal risks, insurance, governance and all 
matters relating to standards and compliance.
We recognise that our internal control systems can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Risk management framework
We have a risk management framework in place to help us to identify, 
assess, measure, manage and monitor our key risks in a consistent way. 
We define key risks to be anything that may prevent us from meeting 
our objectives. The framework is regulary reviewed by the Board and 
has been developed in accordance with guidance from the Financial 
Reporting Council to provide us with a single picture of the threats and 
uncertainties we face. This enables the Board and senior management 
to make appropriate decisions to manage the key risks. The framework 
has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of this annual report.
Risk management and internal controls
By our people
By our whistleblowing 
process
By external or 
internal audits
Risk identification
Risks are added to our risk register 
and rated for probability and impact
Risks are assigned a senior 
management owner who is 
responsible for documenting a 
mitigation plan on the risk register
Risk recording
If a risk is auditable it is 
added to the internal 
audit plan
Audit issues are assigned 
a senior management 
owner to determine the 
action plan to mitigate 
the issue
Audit issues, management 
responses and progress 
against action plans are 
reported to the Audit 
Committee three times 
a year
Auditing
The risk registers are 
reviewed and updated 
by the risk owners on a 
regular basis
The risk registers are 
reviewed by the Risk 
Committee three times 
a year for completeness 
and consistency 
in ratings
The risk registers are 
reported to the Board 
three times a year
Risk reporting KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 36
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
Audit 
Committee
report
Martin Towers
Chairman
 
Director
Number of 
meetings
Out of  
possible
Martin Towers (Chairman) 3 3
Tony Illsley 3 3
Peter Smith 1 1
The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the 
year is shown in the table above.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and is responsible 
for reviewing all aspects of the financial reporting of the Group and all 
aspects of internal control. In doing so, the Committee represents the 
interests of the shareholders of the Group in relation to the integrity 
of information and the effectiveness of the audit processes in place.
Composition
The Audit Committee during the year under review has consisted of two 
Non-Executive Directors up to 5 January 2015, at which point Peter Smith 
joined the Committee as a Non-Executive Director. From 7 April 2015, 
Liz Barber also joined the Committee upon her appointment as 
Non-Executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Martin Towers, who has significant 
recent financial experience. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales and has held a number of senior 
finance roles, including working as Group Finance Director at Kelda 
Group PLC until 2008. The Board considers therefore that he has the 
relevant financial experience to fulfil the role of Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Martin has indicated that it is his intention to retire from the Board at 
the AGM in July and at that point Liz Barber will become the Chairman 
of the Committee. Liz currently works as the Group Director of Finance, 
Regulation and Markets at Kelda Group PLC and was previously the 
Head of Audit for the North of England at Ernst & Young. She therefore 
brings a wealth of recent financial experience to the role.
Committee meetings are also attended by the Executive Directors, 
the Director of Group Finance Services, the Company Secretary and 
representatives from the internal and external auditors. The external 
auditors meet also with individual members of the Audit Committee 
during the year, without the other attendees present. The internal 
auditors also meet separately with the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee without the other attendees present.
Meetings
There were three meetings held in the year; in June, November and 
March. The June meeting was used to review the year end external 
audit and year end financial reporting, the November meeting to 
consider the half year review and financial reporting and the March 
meeting to consider the planning for the year end.
Each meeting included agenda items relating to internal audit, financial 
reporting and external audit. The areas discussed under each item are 
noted in the table below:
Area Description
Internal audit The internal audit agenda item focuses on the audits 
performed in the period, including any significant 
issues identified. A report setting out previous audit 
issues raised and the progress made to mitigate the 
issues is also discussed at each meeting. A review 
of the internal audit plan for the period to the next 
Audit Committee meeting also takes place.
Financial reporting The Director of Group Finance Services talks through 
the key judgement areas in relation to financial 
reporting and sets out the decisions made and the 
rationale behind these. These are covered in more 
detail on page 8.
External audit The representatives from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
set out the audit approach, the key audit risks, an 
overview of internal controls and a view on the key 
audit and accounting matters, as well as how 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ensures its continuing 
independence from the Group.
Each year the Audit Committee is also responsible for:
 I seeking the view of the external auditors on any accounting 
judgements made in the year;
 I considering the consistency and appropriateness of the accounting 
policies adopted;
 I reviewing the financial statements of the Group and the clarity of the 
disclosures made, although the ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the annual report and financial statements remains with 
the Board;
 I reviewing the adequacy of the whistleblowing procedures in place 
to enable employees and third parties to raise concerns in confidence, 
as well as the effectiveness and independence of any investigations 
undertaken as a result of such concerns being raised;
 I reviewing the procedures in place for the detection of fraud and the 
prevention of bribery across the business; and
 I overseeing the relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are in line with the 
recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Guidance 
on Terms of Reference for Audit Committees. Copies of the Terms 
of Reference are available from the Company Secretary and are 
on our website at www.kcomplc.com. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 37
Directors’ report
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
The specific issues considered by the Audit Committee in the year under review, in relation to the financial statements, are shown in the table below.
Nature of the issue
How the Committee was satisfied with 
the treatment adopted by management
Any changes arising from discussion 
by the Committee
Pension accounting assumptions 
Pension accounting is complex and there 
are a number of assumptions that have 
to be made, which can have a significant 
impact on the valuation of scheme liabilities.
This is a recurring matter.
The approach to the assumptions made 
was consistent with previous years and 
the Committee was satisfied that this 
was satisfactory given the reasonable 
nature of the previous assumptions 
and the fact that there had been no 
requirements for change identified.
The assumptions were debated by 
the Committee. 
No changes were made as the Committee 
concluded that it agreed with the treatment 
adopted by management.
Capitalisation of intangible assets on internal projects 
There is a significant internal project 
currently ongoing to implement a new 
back-office system. Costs relating to 
this are being capitalised in line with 
accounting standards but there have 
been judgements made in relation to 
the proportion of internal salaries that 
should be capitalised for this project 
and the recoverability of the carrying 
value of the asset.
This will be a recurring matter while there 
are significant internal projects ongoing.
The approach adopted by management 
in relation to the capitalisation of internal 
salaries was consistent with that previously 
adopted for other IT projects.
Management noted that the expected 
benefits of the project were still in line with 
the original business case, with the benefits to 
date exceeding those included in the business 
case. In addition, management remained 
committed to the delivery of the remainder 
of the project. There was therefore no trigger 
to indicate a potential impairment of the 
asset carrying value. 
The Committee discussed at length the 
approach to the capitalisation and the 
proposed useful economic life and concluded 
that it was in agreement with the treatment 
adopted by management.
Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets 
Testing goodwill and other intangible 
assets for potential impairment is complex 
and requires a number of management 
estimates and sensitivities to be applied, 
which inevitably require judgement.
This is a recurring matter.
A full impairment assessment was performed 
at the year end and this was discussed in 
detail by the Committee, along with the 
assumptions made and the sensitivities in 
relation to the assumptions. It was concluded 
that an impairment of £33.9 million should 
be recognised in relation to the Kcom Cash 
Generating Unit. Further information on this can 
be found in Note 14 to the financial statements.
The Committee challenged the assumptions 
and sensitivities and concluded that no 
changes were required.
Exceptional costs 
Management judgement around when 
costs should be treated as exceptional 
is always an area for review.
There is an established and well-defined policy 
in place in relation to the classification of 
costs as exceptional and this has not changed 
in the year. Management had followed this 
policy and therefore the Committee was 
satisfied with the treatment adopted 
by management.
No changes were made as the Committee 
was in agreement with the treatment 
adopted by management. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 38
Directors’ report
Corporate governance continued
Audit Committee continued
External audit
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with 
the external auditors to ensure that the external auditors continue to be 
independent, objective and effective in their work, and also considers 
the re-appointment of the auditors each year.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were appointed as auditors in 2006 
following a comprehensive tender process. The current audit partner, 
Ian Morrison, was appointed to the audit in 2011 following a partner 
rotation. Each year the Committee considers the continued independence 
of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, to determine whether to recommend to the Board that the 
current auditors be re-appointed, also taking into consideration the 
desire to comply with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code to tender the external audit at least every 10 years and the 
transitional arrangements in place in relation to this.
There are no contractual obligations in place which would restrict the 
choice of external auditors by the Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process in the year through meetings, reviewing the reports from 
the external audit team and the close working of the internal audit team 
with the external auditors. The Committee has concluded that the 
external audit process was effective and is satisfied that the scope of 
the audit is appropriate and that significant judgements have been 
robustly challenged.
In addition PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has formally confirmed its 
continued independence and the measures they have taken to ensure 
that they comply with best practice and professional and regulatory 
requirements in this area. The Committee believes that audit partner 
rotation is a significant factor in ensuring continued independence 
and objectivity by reducing the risk of familiarity while retaining the 
detailed understanding of the business which the external auditors 
have gained over time.
We have an Engagement of External Auditors policy which covers 
the selection of firms to perform non-audit work. This policy excludes 
the auditors from providing certain services, such as internal audit 
services, litigation support, remuneration advice and legal advice 
services. All other non-audit work is assessed separately and is 
awarded to the firm considered best suited to perform the work. Any 
such work with a fee greater than 25 per cent of the annual audit fee 
must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee before 
the external auditors may be appointed.
During the year the fee for the external audit of the Group and its 
subsidiaries, along with other services pursuant to legislation, was 
£387,000 (2014: £245,000). In addition to this, the external auditors 
provided services to the value of £90,000 (2014: £111,000) relating to 
tax advisory services and Group structuring advice work. In these areas 
the auditors were considered the most appropriate firm to perform 
the work.
Risk management and internal control
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems through the work performed by the internal and 
external auditors and reports to the Board on the effectiveness of such 
systems. The internal control and risk management systems have been 
improved during the year through the implementation of an SAP system 
resulting in an increase in the amount of automation in place across our 
Finance systems. The Committee is satisfied that any audit issues raised 
by either the internal or external auditors are being adequately followed 
up and closed down on a timely basis.
Internal audit
In November 2014, we took the decision to outsource our internal audit 
work and, following a selection process, Deloitte were appointed as our 
internal auditors. The decision to outsource was taken to enable the 
internal audit work performed to cover a broader scope and to give 
us access to subject matter experts, which we did not have with an 
in-house team. Up to November 2014, our internal audit team consisted 
of two qualified accountants, both with a ‘Big Four’ background. The 
team performed financial, operational and compliance audits and 
assessed each potential audit area according to the risk associated with 
it and the level of assurance already in place. This then enabled audits 
to be appropriately prioritised and built into the audit plan as necessary.
Going forward a similar approach is being adopted by Deloitte, of 
prioritising audits in relation to the risk associated with the audit area, 
as well as by looking specifically for ‘what must go right’ rather than 
simply the risk of something going wrong. The audit plan is brought to 
each Audit Committee meeting, where it is discussed and approved.
The internal auditors report to the Audit Committee at each meeting 
on the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial, operational and 
compliance controls in place across the Group. The Audit Committee 
is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
internal audit work and does this through reviewing the internal audit 
reports presented to the Committee and through the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee meeting separately with the internal auditors outside 
of the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the adequacy of management responses 
to the audit issues raised and monitors the closure of issues on a timely 
basis through a regular report from the internal auditors.
The internal and external audit teams work closely together to ensure 
that all key risk areas are covered and that the work performed by one 
team feeds into the work of the other. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 39
Directors’ report
General information
General information is provided in note 1 of the financial statements.
Disclosure of all relevant information to auditors
The Directors who approved this report are satisfied that, as far as they 
are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined in the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. 
Each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
Directors
The names of the Directors who served during the year are on 
pages 28 and 29 along with the biographical details of the Directors 
serving at the date of signing of this report. Further information 
regarding the Directors who served during the year can be found 
on pages 42 to 57 in the Remuneration report.
Political donations
No political donations were made by the Group during the year 
(2014: £Nil).
Employees
Our people are a key asset and enable us to differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors. We therefore take great care to 
have employment strategies in place to help our people develop 
to their full potential whilst also driving our business performance. 
Our employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities 
irrespective of age, disability, ethnicity, gender, gender reassignment, 
marital status and civil partnership, nationality, pregnancy and 
maternity, race, religion and belief, and sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time or full-time, temporary or permanent, 
are treated fairly and equally. We select employees for employment, 
promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment on 
the basis of aptitude and ability.
We take every opportunity to involve and consult with our employees 
and we believe that employee involvement is an essential contributor 
to the development of our business. Our Executive Directors regularly 
visit our different office locations to meet with our employees, 
provide updates on the performance of the business and to receive 
suggestions and feedback, through both roadshow presentations 
and informal meetings.
Regular video and news updates are provided to all employees through 
our intranet, and a weekly round-up email is sent to keep everyone 
informed of activities and developments across the business. There is also 
a monthly briefing document for managers to share with their teams.
We encourage our employees to become shareholders by offering 
a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) as we believe this is one opportunity 
to encourage greater employee engagement. More information 
about this can be found on page 56.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
ordinary shares of 10 pence.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares 
In a general meeting of the Company voting is as follows:
 I on a show of hands, every member present in person shall have 
one vote;
 I on a show of hands, every proxy present who has been duly appointed 
by one or more members shall have one vote; and
 I on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have 
one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
A member is not entitled to vote in respect of any share in the capital 
of the Company held by him or her, if there are sums payable to the 
Company in respect of such share which remain unpaid.
Full details of the deadline for exercising voting rights in respect of the 
resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 31 July 2015 are 
set out in the Notice of Meeting.
All dividends are paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the 
shares and are paid to those members whose names are on the share 
register at the date at which the dividend is declared, or at such other 
date as determined by the Directors or by an ordinary resolution of 
the Company.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator, with the sanction of a 
special resolution of the Company or any other sanction required by 
law, may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the Company 
among the shareholders and may determine how the division of the 
assets will be carried out.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of uncertificated shares must be made in accordance with, 
and be subject to, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as 
amended by the Uncertificated Securities (Amendment) Regulations 
2013 and in accordance with any arrangements made by the Board.
All transfers of certificated shares must be in writing in a form which has 
been approved by the Directors; this is known as ‘the Instrument of 
Transfer’. The Instrument of Transfer must be signed by, or on behalf of, 
the transferor and the transferor will remain as the holder of the share 
until the name of the transferee is entered into the share register.
The Directors may refuse to register the transfer of any share which is 
not fully paid or which is in favour of more than four persons jointly. The 
Directors may also refuse to recognise an Instrument of Transfer if it is 
not lodged at the Company’s registered office or at any other place 
which the Directors have determined.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer they will send to the transferee 
a notice of the refusal and the Instrument of Transfer within two months 
of the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company.
Other disclosures KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 40
Directors’ report
Other disclosures continued
Acquisition of own shares
At the AGM in 2014, the Company was authorised by members to 
purchase its own shares, up to a maximum of 51,660,391. During the 
year, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
The Company funds Employee Share Trusts (ESTs) to meet its 
obligations under the Company’s share schemes. During the year the 
ESTs purchased 4,170,000 (2014: 2,043,000) shares on the London 
Stock Exchange at a cost of £4,058,000 (2014: £1,778,000) with a 
nominal value of £417,000 (2014: £204,300). These shares represent 
0.6 per cent of the called-up share capital and are held in trust until they 
vest; therefore the purchase of these shares does not reduce the share 
capital in issue. The total number of shares held in trust to meet 
obligations under the Company’s share schemes is:
000’s of shares
As at 1 April 2014 205
As at 31 March 2015 165
Further details around the purchase of shares in the year are set out in 
Note 26 to the financial statements.
Shares held by ESTs
The trustees of the Kingston Communications 2000 EST and the 
Kingston Communications All Employee Share Plan vote any shares 
held in the ESTs as they wish, having due regard to the interests 
of the employees as potential beneficiaries.
There are two other ESTs, the Kingston Communications Qualifying 
Employee Share Ownership Trust and KCOM Group PLC Employee 
Benefit Trust, that are currently dormant and hold no shares.
Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.4R
For financial years ending after 31 August 2014 the Listing Rules require certain specific disclosures to be provided in a single identifiable 
section unless the annual report includes a cross reference table indicating where that information is set out.
Section of LR 9.8.4R Topic Where it is included
1 Interest capitalised. Not applicable.
2 Publication of unaudited financial information. Not applicable.
4 Details of long-term incentive schemes with 
Directors or future Directors as sole participants. 
Not applicable.
5 and 6 Waiver of emoluments or future emoluments 
by a Director.
Not applicable.
7 and 8 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by the 
Group or major subsidiary undertakings.
Not applicable.
9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed 
subsidiary.
Not applicable.
10 Contracts of significance in which a Director has a 
material interest or between the Group, or a 
subsidiary, and a controlling shareholder.
Not applicable.
11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder. Not applicable.
12 and 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends or future dividends. Not applicable.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders. Not applicable. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 41
Directors’ report
Significant agreements – change of control
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the 
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of 
a change of control of the Company:
 I under our £200 million multi-currency revolving facility agreement 
dated 4 June 2014, the Company must notify Lloyds Bank PLC, the 
Agent of the agreement, within seven days of becoming aware of a 
change of control of the Company. Any bank or financial institution 
named within the facility agreement may then notify the Agent within 
seven days that they wish to cancel their commitments. The Agent 
must then give at least 21 days’ notice to the Company of this and 
all outstanding amounts due to that bank or financial institution will 
become immediately due and payable. For these purposes, a ‘change 
of control’ occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert 
gains control of the Company; and
 I the Company’s share schemes, details of which are contained in the 
Remuneration report on pages 42 to 57, contain provisions which take 
effect in the event of a change of control, as a result of which options 
and awards may vest and become exercisable. The provisions do not 
entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company 
than that created by the initial grant or award under the relevant scheme.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director 
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover.
Strategic report 
Pursuant to Section 414c of the Companies Act 2006 the Strategic report 
on pages 2 to 27 contains disclosures in relation to future developments, 
dividends, financial risk management and the disclosure of the 
Greenhouse Gas emissions for which the Company is responsible.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Our AGM will be held at the KC Stadium, Hull, on Friday 31 July 2015 
at 11.00am. The Notice of Meeting accompanies this annual report 
and is also available on our Group website at www.kcomplc.com. Five 
resolutions will be proposed as special business. Explanatory notes 
on these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the 
best interests of the Company and it is their recommendation that 
shareholders support these proposals as they intend to do so in respect 
of their own holdings.
This report has been reviewed and approved by the Board 
of KCOM Group PLC. 
Signed on behalf of the Board
Kathy Smith
Company Secretary
17 June 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 42
Directors’ report
Remuneration report
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ 
Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015, which sets 
out details of the Remuneration policy, describes how the policy is 
implemented and discloses amounts paid for the year under review.
This report includes an Annual report on remuneration which describes 
how the policy was implemented for the year ended 31 March 2015 
and how we intend to implement the policy in 2015/16. The Annual 
report on remuneration together with this annual statement will be 
put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 31 July 2015. 
In addition, to aid clarity, we have included an abridged version of our 
policy which received binding shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee has continued to review the Remuneration policy in 
place to ensure that this incentivises the right behaviour and objectives 
in the Directors, aligns with the expectations of our shareholders and 
promotes the long-term success of the Company, and remains satisfied 
that it continues to be fit for purpose. 
Structure of pay
It is the Committee’s aim to reward fairly for good performance, with 
the opportunity for greater rewards for extraordinary performance, 
whilst ensuring that we do not provide additional reward for 
performance that is below expectations.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is made up of base salary, 
a benefits package and pension provision plus, subject to performance 
conditions allied to the business strategy, the opportunity to receive 
cash payments under an annual bonus plan and shares under a 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).
In looking at performance we consider both the current performance 
of the Group and the longer-term sustainability of the business. This 
is reflected through operation of the annual bonus linked to the profit 
performance of the Group in the year and the LTIP that rewards Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance relative to a comparator group 
over a three year period. We ensure that the Remuneration Committee 
has final discretion over the vesting of LTIP awards so that even when 
vesting would be triggered by the TSR performance measure, the Committee 
must decide whether the three year performance is indicative of the 
likely continued success of the business into the future.
Incentive pay is subject to clawback provisions and share ownership 
guidelines apply to ensure that there is further alignment of interests 
between Executive Directors and shareholders.
Decisions made
As detailed in the Remuneration report last year, the Executive Directors 
received a pay increase of 2.75 per cent from 1 July 2014. This decision 
was reached after looking at the performance of the Group and the 
Directors individually, as well as the pay conditions and awards made 
across the Group. This year the Remuneration Committee has again 
reviewed the pay conditions across the Group, the overall performance 
of the Group and the benchmark information for similar roles in similar 
sized companies. Taking all of this into consideration it has been 
decided that there will be no pay rise awarded to the Executive Directors 
at this time. This is consistent with the rest of the Group where pay 
awards are only being made for employees in exceptional cases.
The annual bonus scheme for the forthcoming year has been reviewed 
by the Committee and it has been agreed to retain the metrics operated 
for the 2014/15 year, which are set out in more detail on page 49. 
During the year the Group did not achieve EBITDA above the target 
level required to trigger a bonus payment and therefore there are no 
bonus payments proposed for the Executive Directors. Further 
information on this can be found on page 50.
Statement from the Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee
Tony Illsley
Chairman KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 43
Directors’ report
This Directors’ Remuneration report sets out details of the Remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the 
implementation of the policy and discloses the amounts paid for the year ended 31 March 2015. The report complies with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 and has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements 
of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Policy report
The Directors’ Remuneration policy of the Group was put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 29 July 2014, in accordance with 
Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, and was approved. It therefore became effective from that date. The current intention is to 
operate the policy, as approved, for the full three years to the 2017 AGM and we therefore do not propose to resubmit it to shareholders for 
approval at the AGM in July 2015. This part of the Directors’ Remuneration report sets out an abridged version of the approved policy. A full 
version of the Remuneration policy can be found on pages 46 to 51 of the Annual report and accounts 2013/14 which can be found on our 
website at www.kcomplc.com.
No LTIP awards were due to vest based on performance ending in 
2014/15. During the year new awards were granted under the LTIP 
scheme to each of the Executive Directors, equivalent to 100 per cent 
of base salary. This is consistent with awards made in the previous year 
and was considered by the Committee to provide a longer-term 
incentive to the Executive Directors as these awards will not vest 
until 2017 and are dependent on relative TSR measured over a three 
year performance period from the date of grant.
The Committee plans to make further awards to the Executive Directors 
under the LTIP scheme in July 2015 and plans to increase the level of 
reward made for 2015/16 to 150 per cent of base salary; this is within 
the existing policy and is to reflect the fact that the Group is embarking 
on a period of significant strategic change and the Committee believes 
that the level of reward should reflect the additional challenge that lies 
ahead and that successful delivery of the planned transformation will 
reposition the business and enable the Company to deliver increased 
returns to shareholders. The Committee has taken into consideration the 
total remuneration package of the Executive Directors in its decision-
making process and such an increase in the LTIP award does not 
increase total remuneration above the market rate for similar roles 
at similar-sized companies.
The Committee is happy that relative TSR remains appropriate as the 
performance measure for the LTIP scheme. The business changes are 
being implemented to improve total shareholder returns and hence the 
use of relative TSR provides strong alignment with this objective. There 
is also an underpin in place, such that the Committee must be satisfied 
that the financial and non financial performance of the Company 
warrants the level of vesting.
The combination of relative TSR plus the underpin will ensure that the 
delivery of returns takes into account the market context as well as 
ensuring consistency between the relative TSR and the absolute 
measures of the health of the Group. 
Views of the shareholders
The views of our shareholders in relation to remuneration are of great 
importance to us and we believe that they can add real value to the 
process of policy formulation. Any feedback would therefore be 
welcomed and may be directed to me or to our Company Secretary, 
Kathy Smith.
I hope that we can rely on your support for the resolution relating 
to remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
Tony Illsley
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
17 June 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 44
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Policy report continued
Executive Directors’ policy table
Element and how it supports 
the KCOM Group strategy How does this operate and what is the maximum that may be paid? What performance measures are used and why? Are there any provisions to recover sums paid?
Base salary
Setting the base salary at the right 
level enables us to attract and retain 
the right individual for the role, whilst 
reflecting appropriately the status, 
responsibility and experience of 
the individual.
Base salaries are normally reviewed at least annually. Salaries are typically set following comparison with industry 
based peer companies and companies of a similar size. We aim to pay salaries around the median; however, we also 
take into account a number of other specific factors, including the experience and performance of the individual, the 
criticality of the individual to the success of the Group, pay and conditions throughout the Group and the wider 
economic climate.
Increases will not ordinarily exceed the general level of increase for the Group’s employees; however, increases 
beyond those awarded to the Group’s employees may be awarded in certain circumstances, for example, where 
there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience, or where there is a significant increase in the 
scale of the role or the size and/or complexity of the Group.
Details of the base salary for each of the Executive Directors are shown in the Annual report on remuneration 
on pages 49 and 50.
No specific performance measures are used in relation to determining base salary, but individual and 
business performance are considered as part of the discussion when setting the base salary levels.
There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Benefits
Paying the right amount of benefits 
helps us to attract and retain the 
right individual for the role.
The provision of benefits is set based upon market practice at similar companies, taking into account also the benefits 
available to other employees across the Group.
The benefits available to both Executive Directors are:
 I private medical insurance for the Executive and their immediate family; 
 I income protection;
 I life assurance;
 I car allowance of up to £16,000 per annum for the Chief Executive and £14,000 per annum for the 
Chief Financial Officer;
 I fully expensed fuel card;
 I medical screening; and
 I the opportunity to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines. 
 The cost of insured benefits may vary from year to year and there is no maximum level set. Additional benefits can be 
purchased via a deduction in salary through the flexible benefits arrangements available to all employees.
Benefits are not performance related. There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Retirement benefits
Retirement benefits are paid as part 
of a market competitive package 
which, in turn, helps us to attract and 
retain high calibre individuals.
Both Executive Directors are entitled to receive an employer pension contribution of up to 20 per cent of base salary. 
This can either be paid as a contribution direct to the Group Stakeholder Pension Plan or as cash to the individual. 
Contributions to the Group Stakeholder Pension Plan are dependent on a minimum employee pension contribution 
of three per cent per annum.
Retirement benefits are not performance related. There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is designed to 
reward the achievement of stretching 
Group objectives and therefore drive 
operational excellence.
All payments are at the discretion of the Committee. Payments are considered and approved by the Committee 
and are payable annually following publication of the Group’s full year results. Up to 10 per cent of maximum 
bonus is dependent on achieving the threshold hurdle with sliding scale targets set for payments above this level.
Target performance receives up to 50 per cent of salary. Performance above-target results in a higher percentage 
up to a maximum of 100 per cent of salary.
The performance measures will be financial measures, such as EBITDA. The measures chosen will be 
those that the Committee believes most closely align Executive Director and shareholder interests and 
are important to the long-term success of the Group. The measures in place for 2014/15 are set out in 
more detail on page 50.
Clawback may be invoked for the annual bonus for:
 I material misstatement of the accounts;
 I error in assessing performance conditions; or
 I gross misconduct.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentive schemes are 
used to drive growth in shareholder 
value and to ensure that there is a 
direct link between reward and 
superior shareholder returns.
Awards are normally made annually and performance is measured over a three year period.
The plan rules state that a maximum of 150 per cent of salary per annum may be awarded (200 per cent of salary may 
be made in exceptional circumstances). Actual award levels are disclosed each year in the Annual report on remuneration.
The performance measure used in the LTIP is Total Shareholder Return (TSR). The Committee believes 
that a relative TSR measure offers a robust measure of performance over the long-term as it takes 
into account changes in the economic cycle, while maintaining a focus on shareholder returns. KCOM 
Group’s TSR must rank at least median to the TSR performance of the companies within a comparator 
group. Performance at median would result in 25 per cent of the awards vesting, with performance 
between median and upper quartile resulting in vesting of awards on a straight-line basis with 
100 per cent vesting at upper quartile performance. In addition, there is an underpin that the 
Committee must be satisfied that the Group’s financial and non-financial performance over the 
performance period warrants the level of vesting, having regard to a number of factors such as 
share price progression, dividend policy and Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance.
Clawback may be invoked for the LTIP for:
 I material misstatement of the accounts;
 I error in assessing performance conditions; or
 I gross misconduct.
Discretion retained in operating incentive plans 
The Committee will operate the Group’s annual bonus plan and LTIP according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent with normal 
market practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number of regards. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 45
Directors’ report
Element and how it supports 
the KCOM Group strategy How does this operate and what is the maximum that may be paid? What performance measures are used and why? Are there any provisions to recover sums paid?
Base salary
Setting the base salary at the right 
level enables us to attract and retain 
the right individual for the role, whilst 
reflecting appropriately the status, 
responsibility and experience of 
the individual.
Base salaries are normally reviewed at least annually. Salaries are typically set following comparison with industry 
based peer companies and companies of a similar size. We aim to pay salaries around the median; however, we also 
take into account a number of other specific factors, including the experience and performance of the individual, the 
criticality of the individual to the success of the Group, pay and conditions throughout the Group and the wider 
economic climate.
Increases will not ordinarily exceed the general level of increase for the Group’s employees; however, increases 
beyond those awarded to the Group’s employees may be awarded in certain circumstances, for example, where 
there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience, or where there is a significant increase in the 
scale of the role or the size and/or complexity of the Group.
Details of the base salary for each of the Executive Directors are shown in the Annual report on remuneration 
on pages 49 and 50.
No specific performance measures are used in relation to determining base salary, but individual and 
business performance are considered as part of the discussion when setting the base salary levels.
There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Benefits
Paying the right amount of benefits 
helps us to attract and retain the 
right individual for the role.
The provision of benefits is set based upon market practice at similar companies, taking into account also the benefits 
available to other employees across the Group.
The benefits available to both Executive Directors are:
 I private medical insurance for the Executive and their immediate family; 
 I income protection;
 I life assurance;
 I car allowance of up to £16,000 per annum for the Chief Executive and £14,000 per annum for the 
Chief Financial Officer;
 I fully expensed fuel card;
 I medical screening; and
 I the opportunity to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines. 
 The cost of insured benefits may vary from year to year and there is no maximum level set. Additional benefits can be 
purchased via a deduction in salary through the flexible benefits arrangements available to all employees.
Benefits are not performance related. There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Retirement benefits
Retirement benefits are paid as part 
of a market competitive package 
which, in turn, helps us to attract and 
retain high calibre individuals.
Both Executive Directors are entitled to receive an employer pension contribution of up to 20 per cent of base salary. 
This can either be paid as a contribution direct to the Group Stakeholder Pension Plan or as cash to the individual. 
Contributions to the Group Stakeholder Pension Plan are dependent on a minimum employee pension contribution 
of three per cent per annum.
Retirement benefits are not performance related. There are no provisions to recover any sums paid.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is designed to 
reward the achievement of stretching 
Group objectives and therefore drive 
operational excellence.
All payments are at the discretion of the Committee. Payments are considered and approved by the Committee 
and are payable annually following publication of the Group’s full year results. Up to 10 per cent of maximum 
bonus is dependent on achieving the threshold hurdle with sliding scale targets set for payments above this level.
Target performance receives up to 50 per cent of salary. Performance above-target results in a higher percentage 
up to a maximum of 100 per cent of salary.
The performance measures will be financial measures, such as EBITDA. The measures chosen will be 
those that the Committee believes most closely align Executive Director and shareholder interests and 
are important to the long-term success of the Group. The measures in place for 2014/15 are set out in 
more detail on page 50.
Clawback may be invoked for the annual bonus for:
 I material misstatement of the accounts;
 I error in assessing performance conditions; or
 I gross misconduct.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentive schemes are 
used to drive growth in shareholder 
value and to ensure that there is a 
direct link between reward and 
superior shareholder returns.
Awards are normally made annually and performance is measured over a three year period.
The plan rules state that a maximum of 150 per cent of salary per annum may be awarded (200 per cent of salary may 
be made in exceptional circumstances). Actual award levels are disclosed each year in the Annual report on remuneration.
The performance measure used in the LTIP is Total Shareholder Return (TSR). The Committee believes 
that a relative TSR measure offers a robust measure of performance over the long-term as it takes 
into account changes in the economic cycle, while maintaining a focus on shareholder returns. KCOM 
Group’s TSR must rank at least median to the TSR performance of the companies within a comparator 
group. Performance at median would result in 25 per cent of the awards vesting, with performance 
between median and upper quartile resulting in vesting of awards on a straight-line basis with 
100 per cent vesting at upper quartile performance. In addition, there is an underpin that the 
Committee must be satisfied that the Group’s financial and non-financial performance over the 
performance period warrants the level of vesting, having regard to a number of factors such as 
share price progression, dividend policy and Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance.
Clawback may be invoked for the LTIP for:
 I material misstatement of the accounts;
 I error in assessing performance conditions; or
 I gross misconduct. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 46
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Policy report continued
Non-Executive Directors’ policy table
Element and how it supports 
the KCOM Group strategy How does this operate and what is the maximum that may be paid?
Fees
Fees are set to recognise the 
responsibility and experience of 
the individual and enable us to 
attract and retain the right calibre 
of individual.
Fees are normally reviewed at least annually and may be adjusted as necessary to align with market rates 
in companies of a comparable size and to take account of factors such as the time commitment of the role.
The Chairman is paid an all-encompassing fee to take account of all Board responsibilities. The other 
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee with additional fees paid for additional responsibility, such 
as the chairing of a Committee and performing the role of Senior Independent Director.
No Non-Executive Directors participate in any of the Company’s incentive arrangements and no benefits or other 
remuneration are provided. Non-Executive Directors will be reimbursed for any normal business-related expenses.
What performance measures are used and why?
Fees are not performance related; however, performance is addressed through regular one to one meetings 
between the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director.
Are there any provisions to recover sums paid?
There are no provisions to recover any sums paid. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 47
Directors’ report
Recruitment policy
This table sets out the Company’s policy on recruitment of new permanent Executive Directors for each element of the remuneration package.
Executive Directors
Remuneration element Policy on recruitment
Base salary
The Remuneration Committee will typically offer salaries around the median market level 
for comparative roles, but salaries above or below this level may be set to recognise the 
experience of the individual, the wider economic climate and pay and conditions 
throughout the Group.
Where it is appropriate to set a lower salary initially, a series of increases above the level 
awarded to the wider workforce may be given over the proceeding few years until the 
desired positioning is achieved, subject to individual performance. This may apply to 
those promoted internally in the Group as well as to those recruited from outside.
Benefits
The Remuneration Committee will offer a benefits package that will be set in line with 
its policy for existing Executive Directors.
In addition to the benefits currently available to existing Executive Directors, the 
Committee may also offer an allowance to cover relocation expenses as appropriate.
Retirement benefits
The maximum pension contribution will be set in line with the Company’s policy 
for existing Executive Directors at 20 per cent of base salary. 
Annual bonus
The Remuneration Committee will offer an annual bonus in line with its policy for existing 
Executive Directors of up to 100 per cent of salary.
Different performance measures may be set initially depending on the point in the 
financial year at which the individual joined. The opportunity for an annual bonus will 
be pro-rated for the period of employment.
Long-term incentives
On an ongoing basis awards will be made in line with the policy for other Directors. In the 
year of recruitment a higher award may be made within the approved limits of the plan 
(200 per cent of salary in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment).
‘Buy-outs’
The Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements when it considers 
these to be in the best interests of shareholders and the Company. Any such payments 
would be based solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer 
and would reflect (as far as possible) the nature and time horizons attaching to that 
remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee’s policy on the ‘buying-out’ of existing incentives granted 
by the Executive’s previous employer will depend on the circumstances of recruitment and 
will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. There will not be a presumption in favour of 
buy-out but it will be considered if necessary to attract the right candidate.
In total the maximum variable pay level in the year of appointment – excluding the value of any buy-out awards – will be 300 per cent of salary. 
For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing 
prior to appointment would continue.
Non-Executive Directors
On the appointment of a new Non-Executive Chairman or Non-Executive Director, fees will be set to take account of the calibre and experience 
of the individual, prevailing market rates in companies of a similar size and the expected time commitment associated with the role. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 48
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Payments for loss of office
This table sets out the policy on exit payments in relation to each remuneration element for Executive Directors.
The Committee is clear that there will be a consistent approach to exit payments and no reward for poor performance. No amount is payable 
if an Executive Director is dismissed for serious breach of contract, serious misconduct or under-performance or acts that bring the Executive 
Director or Group into serious disrepute.
The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not include any compensation for loss of office.
Executive Directors
Remuneration element Treatment on exit
Base salary
Salary will be paid over the contractual notice period. In all cases the Company will seek 
to mitigate any payments due and the Executive Directors have a contractual duty to 
use reasonable endeavours to obtain alternative income, which can then be used to 
reduce the salary if being paid by instalments. However, the Company has discretion 
to make a lump sum payment on termination in lieu of notice.
Benefits and retirement 
benefits
Benefits and retirement benefits will normally continue to be provided over the notice 
period. In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due. However, the 
Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value 
of the benefits payable during the notice period.
Annual bonus
Whether an annual bonus payment is made is entirely at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee and would be pro-rated to the time of active service in the 
year of cessation. The decision of the Committee would take into consideration the 
performance of the individual, the circumstances of the departure and the financial 
performance of the Group.
Long-term incentives
Normally awards will lapse on cessation of employment, unless the Company determines 
and the Remuneration Committee agrees that the Executive is a good leaver. Good leaver 
status is usually conferred for one of the following reasons: death, ill-health, injury 
or disability, retirement, redundancy, or other circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee. Good leavers will be treated in accordance with the rules of the LTIP, as 
approved by shareholders. In these circumstances a participant’s awards vest on a time 
pro-rata basis subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria over the 
original period, with the balance of the awards lapsing. The Committee retains discretion 
to decide not to pro-rate, to alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the date 
on which performance is calculated if it feels such decisions are appropriate in 
particular circumstances.
Payments on a change of control, where a Director’s employment is adversely changed, will be as on termination. There will be no enhanced 
provisions on a change of control.
Policy report continued
Service contracts
It is the policy of the Group that the notice period for Executive Directors is set at six months for either party. Prior to 2008, the notice period 
for Executive Directors was set at 12 months. The decision has been taken not to retrospectively alter the notice period for those Directors 
appointed with a 12 month notice period.
Letters of appointment
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment rather than service contracts and the notice period in all letters of appointment 
is set at six months for either party.
Copies of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection during office hours at our head office at 37 Carr Lane, 
Hull, HU1 3RE. There are no obligations on the Group in any of the service contracts or letters of appointment to make payments beyond those 
disclosed in this report. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 49
Directors’ report
Annual report on remuneration
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration report sets out the amounts paid to Directors for the year ended 31 March 2015 and describes 
how policy will be implemented in 2015/16. The Annual report on remuneration, along with the statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 31 July 2015.
Implementation of policy for 2015/16
The table below sets out how the Remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2015/16 financial year:
Executive Directors
Bill Halbert Paul Simpson
Base salary
Bill Halbert’s base salary for the year will remain 
at £396,872.
Paul Simpson’s base salary for the year will remain 
at £262,126.
Benefits
The benefits to be provided remain unchanged from 2014/15. These include private medical insurance for the Executive 
and his immediate family, income protection, life assurance, a car allowance of £16,000 per annum for Bill Halbert 
and £14,000 per annum for Paul Simpson, a fully expensed fuel card, medical screening and the opportunity to 
participate in the all-employee Share Incentive Plan. The Executive Directors are also able to purchase additional 
flexible benefits which are available to all employees.
Retirement 
benefits
Each Executive Director is entitled to an employer pension contribution of 20 per cent of base salary.
Annual bonus
The performance measures for the annual bonus scheme are growth in EBITDA and growth in revenue, measured 
for the 2015/16 financial year. Both Bill Halbert and Paul Simpson have a maximum annual bonus entitlement of 
100 per cent of base salary. Up to 10 per cent of the maximum entitlement is triggered upon exceeding a specific 
targeted level of EBITDA. If the EBITDA achieved in the year is greater than that required to trigger the full 10 per cent 
payment then further bonus payments begin to accrue; however, payment of any bonus beyond the 10 per cent 
is dependent on an underpin of revenue growth in the year. The exact targets set are commercially sensitive and 
therefore cannot be disclosed here, but will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration next year.
Long-term 
incentives
It is proposed to grant LTIP awards to Bill Halbert and Paul Simpson in July 2015 under the current scheme, which 
will be equivalent to 150 per cent of their base salary at the date of grant. These awards will have a three year 
performance period and therefore will be due to vest in July 2018 subject to the achievement of relative total 
shareholder return performance conditions. The rationale for this level of award is described further on page 43. 
The performance conditions attached to the LTIP awards are described on page 51.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in June 2015 and have not been increased for 2015/16 from levels set in July 2014.
£’000
Chairman fee 125
Base fee 43
Senior Independent Director fee 11
Audit Committee Chairman fee 6
Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 6
1
1. T ony Illsley does not receive a fee for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as his fee for the role of Senior Independent Director is deemed to be inclusive of any Committee Chairman fees. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 50
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Single total figure table (audited)
Executive Directors
Bill Halbert Paul Simpson Kevin Walsh Total
FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed pay
Base salary 394 386 260 255 81 241 735 882
Taxable benefits 16 16 23 24 6 17 45 57
Retirement benefits 66 66 50 49 14 47 130 162
Sub-total 476 468 333 328 101 305 910 1,101
Performance-related pay
Annual bonus — 27 — 18 — 17 — 62
Long-term incentives — — 477 413 477 413 954 826
Sub-total — 27 477 431 477 430 954 888
Total 476 495 810 759 578 735 1,864 1,989
Non-Executive Directors
Graham Holden Tony Illsley Peter Smith Martin Towers Total
FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014 FY2015 FY2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fees 125 47 54 52 10 — 49 47 238 146
Total 125 47 54 52 10 — 49 47 238 146
Explanatory notes
Base salary
The salary for Kevin Walsh was paid up to the date of his retirement 
from the Board on 29 July 2014.
Taxable benefits
Bill Halbert received a car allowance of £16,000 but elected not to 
receive any other benefits from the Group. The taxable benefits for 
Paul Simpson and Kevin Walsh include private medical insurance, 
income protection, life assurance, medical screening, a company car 
equivalent to a £14,000 per annum car allowance, fully expensed 
fuel cards and membership of the all-employee Share Incentive Plan. 
The benefits included above for Kevin Walsh ceased on the date of 
his retirement from the Board on 29 July 2014.
Retirement benefits
Bill Halbert has elected not to be a member of the Group pension 
scheme and, accordingly, the Group made no contributions on 
his behalf. Instead he received cash payments totalling £65,905 
(2014: £65,905) which are disclosed above within retirement benefits.
Paul Simpson and Kevin Walsh elected to receive part of their 
pension contribution entitlement in cash due to their Pension Lifetime 
Allowance contributions being reached. These amounts were £17,000 
(2014: £15,000) and £14,000 (2014: £12,000) respectively and are 
included in the table above within retirement benefits. The retirement 
benefits payable to Kevin Walsh included above ceased on the date of 
his retirement from the Board on 29 July 2014.
None of the Directors have any prospective entitlement to defined 
benefits or cash balance benefits in respect of qualifying services.
Bonus receivable for the year
The annual bonus was dependent on the achievement of Group financial 
performance targets around growth in pre exceptional Group EBITDA and 
Group revenue. Up to 10 per cent of the maximum bonus entitlement, of 
100 per cent of salary, was dependent on exceeding pre exceptional Group 
EBITDA of £76.5 million in the year. Over-performance against this target 
would have created a bonus pot with a proportion of profits above this level 
being shared amongst all employees in the scheme, as well as the Executive 
Directors, up to the maximum level of bonus for all participants. Any 
additional bonus above the 10 per cent would also be dependent on 
an underpin of year on year Group revenue growth.
The level of pre exceptional Group EBITDA achieved in the year was 
£74.3 million, which was not enough to trigger a bonus and therefore 
no bonus is payable.
Kevin Walsh did not participate in the annual bonus plan for 2014/15.
Long-term incentives
In the current and prior year, shares were released from the Executive 
Incentive Plan to Paul Simpson and Kevin Walsh, the amounts of which 
have been included in the table above. Further details on this scheme 
are included on page 51.
Included within the EIP vesting figures were dividends of £78,000 
(2014: £58,000) for Paul Simpson and £78,000 (2014: £58,000) 
for Kevin Walsh.
The first awards under the LTIP were made in July 2012 and the 
performance period for these awards ends on 19 July 2015. Based 
on performance up to April 2015 it did not appear that any vesting 
of awards would be triggered, but the actual figures, once confirmed, 
will be included in the single total figure table for 2015/16. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 51
Directors’ report
Explanatory notes continued
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office have been made.
In November 2013 Kevin indicated that it was his intention to retire 
from the Group in the summer of 2014. He stepped down from the 
Board at the AGM on 29 July 2014 and signed a new service contract 
reducing his notice period to just three months, therefore ensuring 
that the notice period for which he was paid did not extend beyond 
12 months from the date of his initial indication.
Kevin therefore retired as an employee on 31 October 2014 and his 
fixed pay ceased on that date. Kevin received awards under the LTIP 
scheme in July 2012 and July 2013. The performance period for these 
schemes ends in July 2015 and July 2016 respectively and, as a good 
leaver, Kevin will be entitled to receive any shares that vest under the 
scheme, pro-rated to the date of his retirement to the extent 
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were increased from £42,000 
per annum to £43,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2014, with an 
additional £6,000 per annum from 1 July 2014, previously £5,000 per 
annum, for the responsibility of chairing the Audit Committee and an 
additional £11,000 from 1 July 2014, previously £10,000, for the role 
of Senior Independent Director.
Share awards outstanding at the year end
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
On 19 July 2012 a new long-term incentive scheme, the LTIP, was approved by shareholders. The scheme authorises the Remuneration Committee 
to grant nil-cost share options to the Executive Directors and selected senior managers on an annual basis.
Awards made under the LTIP scheme (audited)
Date of 
grant
Share price 
at date of 
grant
Nil cost 
options 
outstanding 
on 1 April 
2014 
000’s of 
options
Nil cost 
option 
awarded in 
the year 
000’s of 
options
Nil cost 
options 
lapsed due 
to retirement 
000’s of 
options
Nil cost 
options 
outstanding 
on 31 March 
2015 
000’s of  
options
Face
value of
maximum
award
1
£’000
Award that
would vest at
threshold
performance
2
000’s of
options
End of 
performance 
period
Bill Halbert 19 July 2012 76.35p 518 — — 518 396 130 19 July 2015
17 July 2013 82.50p 468 — — 468 386 97 17 July 2016
17 July 2014 95.00p — 418 — 418 397 105 17 July 2017
Paul Simpson 19 July 2012 76.35p 342 — — 342 261 86 19 July 2015
17 July 2013 82.50p 309 — — 309 255 64 17 July 2016
17 July 2014 95.00p — 276 — 276 262 69 17 July 2017
Kevin Walsh 19 July 2012 76.35p 325 — (78) 247 
3
189 62 19 July 2015
17 July 2013 82.50p 293 — (167) 126 
3
104 32 17 July 2016
1. Face value has been calculated using the share price at the date of grant.
2. 25 per cent of the award vests at threshold performance.
3.  Kevin Walsh has been deemed by the Committee to be a good leaver and therefore remains entitled to receive these shares, which have been pro-rated to the date of his retirement, subject 
to vesting conditions being met.
The scheme measures TSR performance over a three year performance 
period from the date of grant, relative to the TSR performance of each 
company within a comparator group, comprising those companies 
within the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) as at the start of 
the performance period.
No part of the awards may vest unless the Company’s TSR performance 
ranks at least median to the TSR performance of the comparator group. 
Performance at median would result in 25 per cent of the awards vesting, 
with performance between median and upper quartile resulting in a 
vesting of awards on a straight-line basis with 100 per cent vesting at 
upper quartile performance.
In addition, regardless of TSR performance, no awards shall vest unless 
the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the Company’s financial 
and non-financial performance over the performance period warrants 
the level of vesting set out in the vesting schedule. The Committee will 
consider the Company’s share price progression, dividend policy and 
EPS performance as part of this review.
On the exercise of an award participants receive an amount in cash or 
extra shares equal to the dividends that were declared during the period 
from grant to exercise, but only in respect of the shares that vest.
The first awards under the scheme were made on 19 July 2012 with further 
awards made in each of the subsequent two years. The maximum 
award allowed under the Remuneration policy is 150 per cent of base 
salary at the time of the award. For each of the three grants to date the 
award granted to each Director has been equivalent to 100 per cent of 
base salary at the time of the award. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 52
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Shares awards released during the year
Executive Incentive Plan (EIP)
The EIP was introduced in 2009 at the request of shareholders, as the Group’s main long-term incentive scheme. All the Executive Directors 
participated in this scheme and were granted a conditional right to a number of ordinary shares in the Group which would vest after three years to 
the extent that the associated TSR performance condition was met. The scheme has now closed and there are no further shares to vest or be released.
The maximum awards and amounts vested for the EIP (audited)
Date of 
grant
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant
Maximum 
award 
000’s of 
shares
Actual 
award 
vested at 
24 July 
2012 
000’s of 
shares
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting
Released 
on 24 July 
2012 
000’s of 
shares
Value of 
shares 
released on  
24 July 
2012 
£’000
Released 
on 24 July 
2013 
000’s of 
shares
Value of 
shares 
released on 
24 July 
2013 
£’000
Released 
on 24 July 
2014 
000’s of 
shares
Value of 
shares 
released 
on 24 July 
2014 
£’000
Current Directors
Bill Halbert 24 July 2009 28.25p 7,480 5,187 74.0p 5,187 3,838 — — — —
Paul Simpson 24 July 2009 28.25p 2,420 1,678 74.0p 839 621 420 355 420 399
Kevin Walsh 24 July 2009 28.25p 2,420 1,678 74.0p 839 621 420 355 420 399
Previous Director
Paul Renucci 24 July 2009 28.25p 1,028 713 74.0p 357 264 178 151 178 167
For full vesting, KCOM Group’s average TSR over any three month 
period in the three years to 24 July 2012 had to equal or exceed 
100 pence. This reduced to 10 per cent vesting on a straight-line basis 
for a TSR of 45 pence, with no vesting below 45 pence. During the 
performance period the highest rolling three month TSR achieved was 
81.26 pence which meant that 69.34 per cent of the maximum awards 
vested on 24 July 2012. 
Vesting was also subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied 
that there had been a demonstrable and sustainable improvement in the 
Group’s financial and non-financial performance over the performance 
period. This was considered and the Remuneration Committee took 
into account the increase in shareholder value over the same period, 
comparing the market capitalisation of the Group at 24 July 2009 of 
£145.9 million with the market capitalisation of the Group at 24 July 2012 
of £382.3 million, showing a 162.0 per cent increase.
In addition over the performance period, dividends of £48.3 million 
had been paid, resulting in a total increase in shareholder value over 
the performance period of £284.7 million. The awards granted to the 
Executive Directors on the vesting of the scheme on 24 July 2012 had a 
market value on vesting of £6.8 million, representing just 2.4 per cent of 
the total increase in shareholder value over the three years of the scheme.
The vested shares were released in full to Bill Halbert at the end of the 
performance period as, at the time the scheme was introduced, this 
timescale was better aligned to his expected tenure in his role. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 53
Directors’ report
Relative Group performance
The graph below shows, for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 and for each of the previous six financial years, the TSR on a holding of the 
Group’s ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE Fixed Line All-Share and the FTSE 250. These indices have 
been chosen as appropriate comparators because they reflect the performance of other companies most similar to KCOM Group in terms of 
product and service offering and market capital.
Remuneration of the Chief Executive
Bill Halbert became the Chief Executive of the Group on 1 April 2014, having previously been the Executive Chairman and performing a dual 
role of both Chief Executive and Chairman. The table below sets out the remuneration for Bill Halbert in his role as either Executive Chairman 
or Chief Executive in each of the last six years:
FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total remuneration 476 495 4,791 522 476 523
Annual bonus paid against maximum opportunity 0% 7% 0% 10% 0% 40%
Long-term incentive vesting against maximum opportunity
1
N/A N/A 69.34% N/A N/A N/A
1. There was no long-term incentive scheme scheduled to vest based on performance ending in any of the financial years other than the year ended 31 March 2013.
The table below sets out the increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive from the prior year in comparison to the average percentage 
change in respect of the employees of the Group as a whole:
Bill Halbert
Average per
employee
1
Percentage change in the year to 31 March 2015
Base salary Increase of 2.1% Increase of 2.2%
Benefits Increase of 1.7% Increase of 3.2%
Annual bonus Reduction of 100% Increase of 7.1%
1.  The average per employee has been calculated on a per head basis using all of the employees in the Group who have remained in the same role throughout the year, excluding the Executive 
Directors. This group has been selected to enable a like-for-like comparison with the Chief Executive.
TSR performance since 31 March 2009  
KCOM Group vs. FTSE Fixed Line All-Share and FTSE 250
Value of £100 invested at 31 March 2009
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
31 March 2014 31 March 2015
KCOM Group PLC
FTSE Fixed Line All-Share
FTSE 250
31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013
£ KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 54
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Relative spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative spend on pay for the entire KCOM Group in comparison to distributions to shareholders:
Year ended
31 March 2015 
£’000
Year ended
31 March 2014 
£’000 Percentage change
Total remuneration cost for all employees
1
68,360 85,953 (20.5%)
Dividend payments to shareholders 26,057 23,764 9.6%
1. The total remuneration cost for all employees is taken from Note 8 to the financial statements on page 77 and includes wages and salaries, social security costs, other pension costs and share scheme costs.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
Date of Board 
appointment
Date of current service contract 
or letter of appointment
Notice period 
(months)
Executive Directors
Bill Halbert 1 September 2006
1
17 June 2011 6
Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 20 June 2011 12
Non-Executive Directors
Graham Holden 27 November 2007
2
13 May 2014 6
Liz Barber 7 April 2015 30 March 2015 6
Tony Illsley 2 June 2009 29 May 2009 6
Peter Smith 5 January 2015 26 December 2014 6
Martin Towers 2 June 2009 1 June 2009 6
1.  Bill Halbert was a Non-Executive Director of the Group from the date of his Board appointment until 25 November 2008, when he became Executive Deputy Chairman. On 24 July 2009 he moved 
into the role of Executive Chairman. From 1 April 2014 the role of the Executive Chairman was split and Bill moved into his current role as Chief Executive.
2. Graham Holden was a Non-Executive Director of the Group from the date of his Board appointment until 1 April 2014, when he was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 55
Directors’ report
The specific matters considered by the Committee during the year were:
Description What the Committee has done
Reviewing the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages
The Committee reviewed benchmark analysis of the remuneration packages of the 
Executive Directors and the senior management team against comparable roles and 
considered market trends in remuneration across the industry and in similar sized companies, 
as well as considering the performance of the Group and of the individuals.
Reviewing the proposed annual 
bonus scheme for the 2014/15 
financial year and performance 
against the scheme for 2013/14
The proposed scheme for 2014/15 was reviewed by the Committee with particular emphasis 
on the need to ensure that the bonus scheme incentivised those with the greatest ability to 
have a direct impact on the performance of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the financial performance of the Group that had triggered a bonus 
payment of 14 per cent of the maximum for 2013/14 and agreed that it was appropriate 
that this should be paid.
Reviewing progress on the LTIP 
scheme and determining the awards 
for 2014
The awards made in July 2014 under the LTIP scheme were reviewed and approved 
by the Committee. There was also a review at each meeting of progress against the 
performance measures.
Reviewing the Directors’ 
Remuneration report in the annual 
report and accounts
The Directors’ Remuneration report in the 2014 annual report and accounts was reviewed 
by the Committee during the year. Following the year end the Committee reviewed and 
approved the current Remuneration report.
Reviewing remuneration trends and 
up-to-date guidance from 
governance institutions
The Committee spent time considering trends in relation to remuneration and considered 
matters such as introducing deferral to the bonus scheme and LTIP scheme. It was agreed 
that this would be considered going forward as new schemes were introduced.
Remuneration Committee
 
Director
Number of 
meetings
Out of  
possible
Tony Illsley (Chairman) 3 3
Graham Holden 3 3
Peter Smith — —
Martin Towers 3 3
The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the 
year is shown in the table above. Meetings were also attended during 
the year by the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group 
HR Director and the Company Secretary, although none were present 
when their own reward was under discussion.
The Remuneration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and has three 
scheduled meetings a year and meets for additional meetings as and when 
required. For the year under review there were no additional meetings held.
During the year under review, the Committee received advice on all aspects 
of remuneration from independent remuneration consultants New Bridge 
Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, an Aon plc company, which 
was appointed by the Committee in August 201 1 following a comprehensive 
tender process. New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by 
that code. The fee paid to New Bridge Street during the year for this advice 
was £41,537 (2014: £45,000) which is charged as a fixed annual fee for 
recurring work, with separate fees agreed as appropriate for additional 
adhoc work.
The Committee has reviewed the way in which New Bridge Street operates and 
its relationship with the Group and remains satisfied that the advice it receives is 
independent and objective. Aon Hewitt also provides actuarial and investment 
consultancy advice to the Trustees of the Group’s two defined benefit pension 
schemes, which the Committee considers does not result in a conflict of interest.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee 
is responsible for:
 I determining and agreeing the Remuneration policy for the Chief 
Executive, the Executive Directors and senior management across 
the Group;
 I having regard to remuneration trends across the Group and remuneration 
in other companies when setting Remuneration policy, as well as to 
environmental, social and governance matters when appropriate;
 I selecting, appointing and setting the Terms of Reference for any 
remuneration consultants who advise the Committee;
 I approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance 
related pay schemes operated by the Group and approving the total 
annual payments made under such schemes;
 I reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the 
Board and shareholders and determining each year whether awards 
will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the 
individual awards and the performance targets to be used;
 I determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements 
for each Executive Director and senior management; and
 I ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments 
made, are fair to the individual and the Group, that failure is not 
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
    The Committee’s Terms of Reference are in line with the 
recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators’ Guidance on Terms of Reference for 
Remuneration Committees. Copies of the Terms of 
Reference are available from the Company Secretary 
or on our website, www.kcomplc.com. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 56
Directors’ report
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
As at 31 March 2015
Shares owned 
outright
Nil-cost share
 options subject
 to performance
 conditions
1
Actual share 
ownership as a 
percentage of 
salary on
31 March 2015
2
Required share 
ownership as 
a percentage 
of salary Requirement met?
Executive Directors
Bill Halbert 2,482,371 1,404,397 570.8% 100% Yes
Paul Simpson 525,895
3
927,576 183.1% 100% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
Graham Holden 50,000 — — — —
Tony Illsley — — — — —
Peter Smith — — — — —
Martin Towers 237,990 — — — —
1. These are awards made under the LTIP scheme, further details of which can be found on page 51.
2. Calculated using the closing mid-market price of KCOM Group PLC shares on 31 March 2015 and only those shares owned outright by the Executive Directors and their connected persons.
3. This includes matching shares awarded under the SIP which may be subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances.
The table above sets out the interests of all the Directors as at 31 March 2015 (as listed on pages 28 and 29) and their connected persons in the 
Group’s shares.
The Group Share Incentive Plan (SIP) is open to all employees and offers free matching shares on a sliding scale from 2:1 for monthly contributions 
of £20 to 1:3 for monthly contributions over £51. Currently 980 employees participate in the scheme, including one of the Executive Directors.
Since the end of the year shares in the SIP have continued to be awarded each month, for which we make monthly announcements as required 
under Section 5.6.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. This has resulted in Paul Simpson holding 705 additional shares, which includes 
matching shares awarded under the SIP which may be subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances.
Shareholder views
At the 2014 AGM there were shareholder votes taken on both the Remuneration policy and the remainder of the Remuneration report. 
The outcomes of the votes are shown in the charts below:
 
 
 
1. A ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and is therefore not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes ‘for’ and ‘against’.
 Votes for
 329,872,924 (94.89%)
 Votes against
 17,770,426 (5.11%)
 Votes withheld
1
 160,438
 Votes for
 334,635,449 (97.44%)
 Votes against
 8,798,672 (2.56%)
 Votes withheld
1
 4,374,119
Remuneration policy Directors’ Remuneration report  
(excluding the Remuneration policy) KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 57
Directors’ report
Outside appointments
In 2014/15 Bill Halbert received no direct remuneration for his external non-executive positions. Kevin Walsh acted as Chairman of Manx Telecom Plc 
whilst also working as Executive Director at KCOM Group. His remuneration for the period from 1 April 2014 up to his retirement on 31 October 2014 
was £46,667, which the Board agreed he should retain.
General information (audited)
The closing mid-market price of KCOM Group PLC shares on 31 March 2015 was 91.25 pence. The high and low closing mid-market share prices 
during the year were 104.10 pence and 79.0 pence respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Kathy Smith
Company Secretary
17 June 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 58
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of KCOM Group PLC
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 I KCOM Group PLC’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the group’s profit and the group’s and the parent 
company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
 I the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 I the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 I the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
KCOM Group PLC’s financial statements comprise:
 I the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 March 2015;
 I the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
 I the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended;
 I the consolidated and parent company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year then ended; and
 I the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and accounts (the ‘Annual Report’), 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Our audit approach
Overview
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked 
at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 
“areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list 
of all risks identified by our audit. 
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
Materiality
 I Overall group materiality: £2.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and the 
impairment of goodwill.
Audit Scope
 I The group engagement team performed audits of the complete financial information of all 
trading entities. 
Areas of focus
 I Valuation of goodwill.
 I Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
 I Capitalisation of internal project costs.
 I Classification of costs as exceptional. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 59
Financial statements
Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Valuation of goodwill
We focused on this area because the determination of whether or 
not goodwill is impaired involves complex and subjective judgements 
by management about the future results of the relevant parts of 
the business.
On an annual basis, management calculate the amount of headroom 
between the value in use of the group’s Cash Generating Units (‘CGUs’) 
and their carrying value to determine whether there is a potential 
impairment of the goodwill relating to those CGUs. The determination 
of the amount of headroom is dependent on the value in use of the CGU, 
which in turn, is dependent on estimates of short-term and long-term 
profit growth from operational improvements.
Opening goodwill of £85.3m was split between 3 CGUs, Eclipse (£7.9m), 
Kcom (£72.3m) and Smart421 (£5.1m). We focused our audit efforts 
initially equally across the three CGUs before directing our attention 
to the Kcom CGU where management’s assessment of value in use 
indicated an impairment of £33.9m to the £72.3m of goodwill. As a 
result of the impairment, headroom is reduced to zero. Any further 
changes in assumption may give rise to a potential further impairment.
In testing management’s assessment of the value in use in each of the 
CGUs we focused on the following key assumptions:
 I Budgeted cash flows for the next 5 years
 I The long term (terminal) growth rate applied beyond the end of the 
5 year budget period
 I The discount rate applied to the model
We also focused our audit attention on the sensitivity analysis and 
alternative scenarios prepared by management and assessed the 
likelihood of these scenarios occurring.
See the accounting policies section within the financial statements for 
disclosure of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
and Note 14 for detailed goodwill disclosures.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions including 
discount rates and long-term growth rates and performed a range of 
sensitivity analyses across all CGUs. In particular:
 I We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s forecasts 
by challenging assumed revenue growth strategies and 
planned operational improvements attributable to the ongoing 
transformation of the group based on growth and savings 
achieved in prior years;
 I We compared the terminal growth rates in the forecasts to third 
party economic and industry forecasts noting that those used by 
the Directors were within an acceptable range;
 I We assessed the discount rate (weighted average cost of capital 
(“WACC”)) for the company against comparable organisations 
noting that the balances used across the group by the Directors 
were within a reasonable range; and 
 I We evaluated management’s sensitivity analysis and performed 
additional sensitivity analysis to ascertain the extent of change in 
those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be 
required for the goodwill to be impaired noting that in both Eclipse 
and Smart421 it would require a significantly adverse change to 
occur, and set of circumstances that we consider remote, before 
the balances would be impaired.
In the Kcom CGU the 5 year forecasts are based on the 2016 budget 
prepared by Kcom and approved by the Board of KCOM Group PLC. 
We challenged management’s budgeted growth rates over the 5 year 
period, evaluating the accuracy of management’s forecasting process 
by comparing previous budgets to actual results, and assessing the 
current budget in light of our knowledge and understanding of current 
business plans and the economic climate. The long-term growth rate 
is based on a country specific terminal growth rate. We assessed this 
long term growth rate by reference to growth rates produced by third 
parties and determined that the planned level of profit growth both 
in the short and long term is achievable based on the previous 
performance of the business. 
Based on the evidence obtained we determined that the impairment 
booked in the Kcom CGU and the assessment that no impairment 
is required in either the Smart421 or Eclipse CGU were reasonable. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 60
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of KCOM Group PLC
Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities
We focused on this area as the pension scheme valuation is highly 
sensitive to changes in the assumptions used within the model 
which calculates the valuation and the subsequent charge or credit 
to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (“OCI”). 
At 31 March 2015 the net pension deficit amounted to £31.4m.
The key assumptions to which the liability is most sensitive, and which we 
therefore paid particular attention to in evaluating the valuation of the 
net deficit, were:
 I Discount rate: Under International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 19 
– Employee Benefits, the discount rate is set with reference to the 
yield on high quality corporate bonds of term appropriate to the 
duration of the liabilities;
 I Inflation rate: the level of future pension payments is linked to price 
inflation indices. Various investment market statistics are used to 
form a view on the long term average rates of retail price and 
consumer price inflation; and
 I Mortality: Scheme specific base tables should be used with 
an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy based 
on recent projections. These projections will depend on future 
expectations of improvements in life expectancy and are 
therefore uncertain.
See the accounting policies section within the financial statements for 
disclosure of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
and Note 29 for detailed pension disclosures.
We tested the actuarial valuations used by management in the 
preparation of the financial statements, as follows.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the pension scheme 
membership data provided to management’s actuary on which the 
pension liability is calculated by reconciling movements in membership 
data to supporting documentation. We noted no material exceptions 
from our testing.
We assessed the appropriateness and consistency of the methodology 
used by management including the key assumptions used to value the 
pension liabilities:
 I Discount rate: We considered the appropriateness of the 
3.25% discount rate assumption used by reference to the yields 
available on AA corporate bond indices and the duration of the 
Scheme’s liabilities. 
 I Inflation rate: We considered the appropriateness of both the CPI 
and RPI rates used by reference to the Bank of England implied 
inflation spot curve and the duration of the Scheme’s liabilities.
 I Mortality: We considered the appropriateness of the base tables 
selected for use by management by reference to those 
provisionally adopted for the most recent actuarial valuation 
of the Scheme and also market practice.
Based on the evidence obtained from our testing of the assumptions 
outlined above, we considered the assumptions used to be in line with 
recognised market practices. 
Capitalisation of internal project costs
We focused on this area because the group has been investing 
significantly in its back office systems and core IT applications. In the year 
this has resulted in the capitalisation of £2.3 million of internal salary 
costs in relation to this project. There is a degree of judgement involved in 
determining the element of internal salaries that may be considered to be 
directly attributable to this project and as such should be capitalised in 
line with the provisions of IAS 38 (Intangible Assets).
There is also judgement involved in assessing the recoverability of the 
carrying value of the asset created from the project given the difficulty in 
forecasting and measuring the financial benefits of the project over its 
forecast life.
See the accounting policies section within the financial statements for 
disclosure of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
We tested capitalised salary costs to supporting payroll records to 
agree the existence of individuals and hours charged, and evaluated 
the nature of the costs to determine whether these costs were 
appropriately capitalised.
In evaluating the recoverability of the carrying value of the capitalised 
asset, the Directors prepared a model to evaluate the forecast benefit 
of the asset over its 10 year life.
We evaluated the Directors’ model by testing costs capitalised to 
date - agreeing these to our work performed on capitalised internal 
salary costs and to third party advisor costs and by testing the benefits 
received to date to reductions in staff and IT costs. We challenged 
the forward looking spend and benefit assumptions in the model 
by examining the original business case, challenging the Directors 
on their commitment to the project and on how benefits would 
be derived in future years based upon the current business model. 
We also challenged the discount rate applied and the life of the 
project to check these were appropriate.
We did not identify any indication of incorrectly capitalised internal 
costs or indicators of impairment of the carrying value of the asset. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 61
Financial statements
Report on the financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Classification of costs as exceptional
Exceptional items consist of a number of one off costs relating to the 
impairment of goodwill (£33.9m), restructuring and redundancy costs 
(£7.5m) as well as one off credits relating to claims (£5.3m) and other 
items (£1.4m). Given the magnitude of these items we focused additional 
audit effort in this area to determine whether these items were 
appropriately classified as exceptional, and did not in fact relate to the 
underlying trade of the business, and that exceptional costs and credits 
were treated consistently with prior periods.
See the accounting policies section within the financial statements for 
disclosure of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
and Note 7 for detailed exceptional costs disclosures.
We tested exceptional costs across all trading entities by evaluating 
their treatment for compliance with the group accounting policy, 
noting that the policy had been applied consistently for all items 
across the group. 
We tested the underlying transactions by agreeing redundancy costs 
to payments made and tested outstanding redundancy costs to 
payroll records and notification to the employees; by agreeing third 
party costs to third party invoices and by testing outstanding third 
party provisions to commitments and post year end payments. 
We tested exceptional credits to the corresponding cash receipts. 
Through these procedures we checked that these items had been 
recognised within the correct period.
Our work in relation to the goodwill impairment is described in the 
area of focus above.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. 
The group is structured along two business segments, being KC and Kcom. Within these segments are five individual trading subsidiary entities 
(the ‘trading entities’). Together with the group’s centralised PLC function, these trading entities form the consolidated financial statements.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of each of the trading entities, together with the group’s centralised PLC function, 
including the consolidation. All work was performed by the group engagement team. This work, including the consolidation, gave us the evidence 
we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with 
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate 
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £2.5 million (2014: £2.5 million).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and the impairment of goodwill.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believed that profit before tax, adjusted for the goodwill impairment charge provided us with 
an appropriate basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring disproportionate 
impact of this item. This is a change from the benchmark used in 2014, where profit before tax was 
considered the most appropriate benchmark only by virtue of the fact that no impairment charge 
was recorded in 2014. 
We also believed that this measure reflects the fact that shareholders measure the performance 
of the group on a pre-exceptional basis.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.1 million (2014: £0.1 million) 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern 
basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that 
the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s and parent company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 62
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of KCOM Group PLC
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 I Information in the Annual Report is:
 I materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 I apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 I otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
 I the statement given by the Directors on page 33, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
 I the section of the Annual Report on page 36, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 I we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 I adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 I the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent company’s compliance 
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 63
Financial statements
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 33, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
 I whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
 I the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
 I the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis 
for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by 
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Ian Morrison (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Leeds
17 June 2015  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 64
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2015 2014
 Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 4 347,984 370,697
Operating expenses 5 (325,579) (315,090)
Operating profit 22,405 55,607
Analysed as: 
EBITDA before exceptional items 4 74,304 75,291
Exceptional credits 7 6,658 2,587
Exceptional charges 7 (41,446) (1,999)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4 (12,033) (16,882)
Amortisation of intangible assets 4 (5,078) (3,390)
Finance costs 9 (5,725) (5,075)
Share of profit/(loss) of associates 4 13 (2)
Profit before taxation 4 16,693 50,530
T axation 10 (4,149) (11,760)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 12,544 38,770
Earnings per share
Basic 12 2.47p 7.64p
Diluted 12 2.44p 7.55p
The Company has elected to take the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent company income statement 
or statement of comprehensive income. 
The profit for the Parent company for the year was £26,057,000 (2014: £23,764,000).
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Profit for the year 12,544 38,770
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 29 (7,263) (16,630)
T ax on items that will not be reclassified 1,528 2,997
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (5,735) (13,633)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Cash flow hedge fair value movements 27 1,428 1,377
T ax on items that may be reclassified (285) (275)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 1,143 1,102
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent 7,952 26,239
The Notes on pages 69 to 94 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 65
Financial statements
Balance sheets
as at 31 March 2015
Consolidated Parent company
2015 2014 2015 2014 
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Assets
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 14 51,372 85,272 — —
Other intangible assets 15 41,903 22,669 — —
Property, plant and equipment 16 127,078 123,839 — —
Investments 17 33 20 494,461 494,461
Deferred tax assets 25 16,292 15,408 — —
  236,678 247,208 494,461 494,461
Current assets 
Inventories 18 2,235 2,647 — —
Trade and other receivables 19 78,790 74,135 5 5
Cash and cash equivalents 22 11,701 9,441 — —
Derivative financial instruments 27 328 — — —
  93,054 86,223 5 5
Total assets  329,732 333,431 494,466 494,466
Liabilities
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 20 (112,969) (128,317) — —
Current tax liabilities (2,500) (1,391) — —
Bank overdrafts 22 (691) — — —
Derivative financial instruments 27 (706) (137) — —
Finance leases 23 (1,743) — — —
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 24 (2,579) (365) — —
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 20 — — (7,484) (2,865)
Bank loans 21 (103,460) (84,417) — —
Retirement benefit obligation 29 (31,435) (26,500) — —
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (4,589) (5,057) — —
Derivative financial instruments 27 — (1,669) — —
Finance leases 23 (5,155) — — —
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 24 (26) (425) — —
Total liabilities  (265,853) (248,278) (7,484) (2,865)
Net assets  63,879 85,153 486,982 491,601
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 26 51,660 51,660 51,660 51,660
Share premium account 353,231 353,231 353,231 353,231
Hedging and translation reserve 27 442 (986) — —
(Accumulated losses)/retained earnings (341,454) (318,752) 82,091 86,710
Total equity 63,879 85,153 486,982 491,601
The Notes on pages 69 to 94 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 17 June 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Bill Halbert    Paul Simpson    KCOM Group PLC
Chief Executive    Chief Financial Officer   Registered number: 2150618
17 June 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 66
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Share Hedging and
 Share premium translation Accumulated
 capital account reserve losses Total 
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
At 1 April 2013 51,660 353,231 (2,363) (319,886) 82,642
Profit for the year — — — 38,770 38,770
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — 1,377 (13,908) (12,531)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2014 — — 1,377 24,862 26,239
Deferred tax charge relating to share schemes — — — 134 134
Current tax credit relating to share schemes — — — 301 301
Purchase of ordinary shares — — — (1,764) (1,764)
Employee share schemes — — — 1,365 1,365
Dividends 11 — — — (23,764) (23,764)
Transactions with owners — — — (23,728) (23,728)
At 31 March 2014 51,660 353,231 (986) (318,752) 85,153
Profit for the year — — — 12,544 12,544
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — 1,428 (6,020) (4,592)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2015 — — 1,428 6,524 7,952
Deferred tax charge relating to share schemes — — — (270) (270)
Current tax credit relating to share schemes — — — 184 184
Purchase of ordinary shares — — — (4,058) (4,058)
Employee share schemes — — — 975 975
Dividends 11 — — — (26,057) (26,057)
Transactions with owners — — — (29,226) (29,226)
At 31 March 2015 51,660 353,231 442 (341,454) 63,879
The Notes on pages 69 to 94 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 67
Financial statements
Parent company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Share 
Share premium Retained 
capital account earnings Total 
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
At 1 April 2013 51,660 353,231 88,773 493,664
Profit for the year — — 23,764 23,764
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2014 — — 23,764 23,764
Purchase of ordinary shares — — (1,764) (1,764)
Employee share schemes — — (299) (299)
Dividends 11 — — (23,764) (23,764)
Transactions with owners  — — (25,827) (25,827)
At 31 March 2014 51,660 353,231 86,710 491,601
Profit for the year — — 26,057 26,057
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2015 — — 26,057 26,057
Purchase of ordinary shares — — (4,058) (4,058)
Employee share schemes — — (561) (561)
Dividends 11 — — (26,057) (26,057)
Transactions with owners  — — (30,676) (30,676)
At 31 March 2015 51,660 353,231 82,091 486,982
The Notes on pages 69 to 94 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 68
Financial statements
Cash flow statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Consolidated Parent company
2015 2014 2015 2014 
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Operating profit 22,405 55,607 — —
Adjustments for:
– depreciation and amortisation 17,111 20,272 — —
– impairment of goodwill 33,900 — — —
– (increase)/decrease in working capital (14,686) 1,537 4,619 2,065
– restructuring cost and onerous lease payments (62) (3,375) — —
– pension deficit payment (4,270) (788) — —
T ax paid (3,424) (1,531) — —
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment 429 (456) — —
Profit on sale of investments (624) — — —
Net cash generated from operations  50,779 71,266 4,619 2,065
Cash flows from investing activities 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (17,356) (16,207) — —
Purchase/generation of intangible assets (14,666) (11,705) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment — 633 — —
Proceeds from sale of investments 429 — — —
Dividends received — — 26,057 23,764
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (31,593) (27,279) 26,057 23,764
Cash flows from financing activities 
Dividends paid 11 (26,057) (23,764) (26,057) (23,764)
Dividend equivalent paid to participants of share schemes (561) (301) (561) (301)
Interest paid (5,574) (4,436) — —
Capital element of finance lease repayments (1,367) — — —
Repayment of bank loans  21 (45,000) (85,000) — —
Drawdown of bank loans 21 65,000 65,000 — —
Purchase of ordinary shares 26 (4,058) (1,764) (4,058) (1,764)
Net cash used in financing activities  (17,617) (50,265) (30,676) (25,829)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,569 (6,278) — —
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 9,441 15,719 — —
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 11,010 9,441 — —
The Notes on pages 69 to 94 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 69
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
01 General information 
KCOM Group PLC is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. 
The address of the registered office is 37 Carr Lane, Hull, HU1 3RE. The nature of the Group’s operations is described within the ‘Strategic report’ on 
pages 2 to 27. 
02 Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of accounting 
The consolidated and Parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial 
assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management 
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in Note 3. 
There were no new standards, amendments and interpretations that were adopted by the Group and effective for the first time for the financial year 
beginning 1 April 2014 that were material to the Group.
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2015 and have not yet been 
applied in preparing these financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant effect or material impact on the financial statements 
of the Group.
The Directors are considering the impact of other standards and interpretations such as IFRS 15 and are assessing whether these will have a 
significant impact on the Group’s financial results.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company 
and its undertakings made up to 31 March 2015. The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included from the dates of acquisition using the 
purchase method of consolidation. Where a company has ceased to be a subsidiary undertaking during the year, its results are included to the date 
of cessation. 
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess 
of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by 
the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted 
against the carrying amount of the investment. 
Partnerships are controlled when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the partnership so 
as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the KCOM Central Asset Reserve Limited Partnership and its undertakings 
made up to 31 March 2015. The results of new partnership undertakings are included from the dates of acquisition using the purchase method of 
consolidation. Where a company has ceased to be a partnership undertaking during the year, its results are included to the date of cessation.
Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker (CODM). The 
CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the KCOM Group PLC 
Board of Directors. As described in Note 4, the Board assessed that the Kcom, Smart421 and Eclipse brands are aggregated together and reported as 
the ‘Kcom’ segment. The remaining brands of KC and the PLC function are reported respectively in the ‘KC’ segment and the ‘PLC’ segment. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 70
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015
02 Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net 
of discounts, returns and value-added taxes. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured when it is probable 
that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities, as described below. 
The Group bases its estimate of return on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics 
of each arrangement.
Revenue from calls is recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the time the call is made over the Group’s network. Revenue from rentals 
is recognised evenly over the rental period.
Revenue from product sales is recognised at the point of effective transfer of risk and reward. Revenue from production of directories is recognised 
at the point when the directory is published. For large long-term annuity and multiple element customer contracts the Group is able to distinguish 
between the installation and the in-life service phases of a contract. Revenue is allocated based on the fair value of the consideration, which represents 
the market value of such services, or amounts per contracts, and will be recognised on the following basis for each phase:
 I installation – within this phase revenue relating to resources and services is accounted for on a stage of completion basis where revenue is 
recognised with reference to the proportion of total costs incurred to date. Revenue related to equipment is accounted for based on the point 
of effective transfer of risks and rewards (shipment); and
 I in-life service – revenue for this phase is recognised in line with the obligation to provide service as dictated by customer contracts.
Pre-contract costs, such as bid costs, on key contract wins are expensed as and when incurred.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised in the accounting period in which services are 
rendered, by reference to stage of completion of the specific transaction, and assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion 
of the total services to be provided.
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide better understanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or 
amount. In particular costs associated with organisational restructuring, costs and provisions associated with onerous contracts, profits or losses on 
the sale of an operation and one-off pension costs and credits are treated as exceptional items.
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and is the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair 
value of the net identifiable assets at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is tested annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate potential impairment. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs that are expected 
to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the 
lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Development costs 
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s internal development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: 
 I an asset is created that can be identified (such as new processes); 
 I it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
 I the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Internally generated intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful 
lives. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which 
it is incurred. Research costs are expensed to the income statement as and when they are incurred. 
Customer and supplier relationships
Contractual customer and supplier relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
The contractual customer and supplier relations have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation 
is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the relationship. These intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their useful lives. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 71
Financial statements
02 Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
T echnology and brand
T echnology and brand acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. Assumptions are used in 
estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include management’s estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the acquired 
businesses. These intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Software
Software comprises computer software purchased from third parties and also the cost of internally developed software. Computer software purchased 
from third parties and internally developed software is initially recorded at cost.
Software development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the 
Group are recognised as intangible assets when the criteria detailed opposite is met. These intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over their useful lives.
Other software development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred. Software development costs 
previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. 
Amortisation 
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each intangible asset. 
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Customer and supplier relationships up to 8 years 
T echnology and brand up to 10 years 
Software up to 10 years 
Development costs 3 years
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Network infrastructure and 
related equipment (included within exchange equipment and external plant) is recorded at cost including labour costs directly attributable to the cost 
of the network construction. Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost of assets to residual values on a straight-line basis over the assets’ 
useful estimated lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 40 years 
Leasehold buildings and improvements period of lease 
Exchange equipment 10 years 
External plant 10 to 20 years 
Vehicles, other apparatus and equipment 3 to 10 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. 
Exchange equipment includes assets and equipment which relate to the network. External plant relates to assets which connect the network to our customers.
The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually. Depreciation of network infrastructure and related equipment is provided for from 
the date the network comes into operation. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term 
of the relevant lease. 
Fixed asset investments 
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment. They are reviewed at each reporting date for possible reversal of the impairment. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life – for example, goodwill – are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are 
subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
income statement. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units (CGUs) are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to CGUs and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 72
Financial statements
02 Accounting policies continued
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method. Costs include raw materials 
and, where appropriate, direct overhead expenses. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and measured subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less any 
impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect 
all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter 
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The 
amount of provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the 
original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss 
is recognised in the income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance 
account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts written off are credited against operating expenses in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, short-term deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, unless a right of offset exists. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax expense.
The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. T axable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and/or items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised generally for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced or increased to the extent that sufficient taxable 
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly to equity. In this 
case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
Financial instruments and hedge accounting 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing 
and investment activities. In accordance with its Treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially and subsequently recognised at fair value. Any gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of the resultant gain or loss depends on 
the nature of the item being hedged. 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, 
taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward exchange contracts 
is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 73
Financial statements
02 Accounting policies continued
Financial instruments and hedge accounting continued
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm 
commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. 
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement 
in the period. 
Foreign currency translation
These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Leasing and hire purchase commitments 
Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Assets held under finance 
leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the future minimum lease 
payments and are depreciated over their useful economic lives. The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase 
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the income statement over the 
periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts. The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease so as to produce a constant periodic 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Bank borrowings and issue costs 
Bank borrowings are stated at the amount of proceeds after deduction of issue costs, which are amortised over the period of the loan. Finance 
charges, including direct issue costs are accounted for in the income statement on an accruals basis and are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Borrowings are carried subsequently at amortised cost and any differences between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value 
are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Pensions 
Defined contribution 
Obligations for contributions to the defined contribution (money purchase) scheme are charged to the income statement in the period they fall due. 
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit 
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using a building block approach, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Remeasurements are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are recognised in equity and 
presented in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
The current and past service costs of the scheme (the increase in the present value of employees’ future benefits attributable to the current or prior 
periods) are charged to the income statement in the period. The cost or benefit of committed settlements and curtailments is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. The interest cost of the scheme is recognised in the income statement in the period to which it relates. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for 
unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service 
cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
Employee share schemes and share-based payments 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity 
instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 April 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. 
Equity-settled employee schemes, including employee share options and discretionary long-term incentive schemes, provide employees with 
the option to acquire shares of the Company. Employee share options and long-term incentive schemes are generally subject to performance 
or service conditions.  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 74
Financial statements
02 Accounting policies continued
Employee share schemes and share-based payments continued
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured at the date of grant and charged to the income statement over the period during 
which performance or service conditions are required to be met, or immediately where no performance or service criteria exist. The fair value of 
equity-settled share-based payments granted is measured using either the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model, depending on the terms under which 
the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of employee share options that vest, except 
where forfeiture is only due to market-based performance criteria not being met. 
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting 
conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) under which employees have the option to purchase shares in the Company each month and 
offers employees free matching and partnership shares on a sliding scale of between 1:3 to 2:1. The Group recognises the free shares as an expense 
over the period of any applicable service condition, or immediately when no service condition exists. 
Dividends 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends 
are approved by the Company’s shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, paid.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
03 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Impairment of non-current assets 
Determining whether a non-current asset is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use and/or the estimated recoverable amount of the asset derived 
from the business, or part of the business, CGU, to which the non-current asset has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the 
present value of future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU, by applying an appropriate discount rate to the timing and amount of future cash flows. 
The Directors are required to make judgements regarding the timing and amount of future cash flows applicable to the CGU, based on current 
budgets and forecasts, and extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and 
operating costs. The Directors estimate the appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU. For further disclosure, see Note 14.
Post-employment benefits 
The Group operates two defined benefit schemes. All post-employment benefits associated with these schemes have been accounted for in 
accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits (revised)’. As detailed within the accounting policies note, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains 
and losses have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent qualified actuaries. 
In performing these valuations, judgements, assumptions and estimates have been made. These assumptions have been disclosed within Note 29.
Capitalisation of internal costs
The Group capitalises internal costs (which relates principally to IT salary costs on significant projects) from the development of intangible assets if, 
and only if, it can demonstrate all of the following:
 I the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;
 I its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 I its ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
 I how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;
 I the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
 I its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
The Directors are required to make judgements regarding whether an intangible asset has met all of the criteria above and are required to ensure 
the correct treatment has been applied in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. For further disclosure, see Note 15.
04 Segmental analysis 
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the KCOM Group PLC Board that are used to make strategic 
decisions. The chief operating decision-maker of the Group is the KCOM Group PLC Board. The Board considers the performance of the four brands and the 
PLC function in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources. These are the Group’s operating segments.
The KC brand addresses the needs of our Hull and East Yorkshire customers and the Eclipse, Kcom and Smart421 brands serve enterprise, public sector 
organisations and small business markets across the UK. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 75
Financial statements
04 Segmental analysis continued
The Board assessed that the Eclipse, Kcom and Smart421 brands have similar profiles, offering similar products and services, and similar production 
and distribution processes, and are operating in a consistent regulatory environment. In line with IFRS 8, the Eclipse, Kcom and Smart421 brands are 
aggregated together and reported as the ‘Kcom’ segment for the year ended 31 March 2015. The remaining brands of KC and the PLC function are 
reported respectively in the ‘KC’ segment and the ‘PLC’ segment. This reporting is also consistent with the reporting to the KCOM Group PLC Board.
The segment information provided to the KCOM Group PLC Board for the reportable segments, for the year ended 31 March 2015 and for the year 
ended 31 March 2014, is as follows: 
Revenue EBITDA
2015 2014 2015 2014 
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Before exceptional items 
KC 104,751 105,021 56,368 56,155
Kcom 248,593 270,891 25,687 28,714
PLC
1
(5,360) (5,215) (7,751) (9,578)
Activities before exceptional items 347,984 370,697 74,304 75,291
Exceptional items 
KC — — 5,027 (499)
Kcom — — (37,435) 1,864
PLC
1
— — (2,380) (777)
Total 7 — — (34,788) 588
Total 347,984 370,697 39,516 75,879
1. PLC comprises shared service functions, share scheme expenses, and administration costs associated with the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes.
A reconciliation of total EBITDA to profit before tax is provided as follows:
2015 2014
 Notes £’000 £’000
EBITDA post-exceptional items 39,516 75,879
Depreciation 16 (12,033) (16,882)
Amortisation 15 (5,078) (3,390)
Finance costs 9 (5,725) (5,075)
Share of profit/(loss) of associate 17 13 (2)
Profit before tax  16,693 50,530
Disclosure has not been made of segmental assets and liabilities. This is in accordance with IFRS 8 as this measure is not provided regularly to the 
KCOM Group PLC Board.
The split of total revenue between external customers and inter-segment revenue is as follows:
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers
KC 99,597 99,573
Kcom 248,033 270,470
PLC
1
354 654
Total 347,984 370,697
Inter-segment revenue
KC 5,154 5,448
Kcom 560 421
PLC
1
(5,714) (5,869)
Total — —
Group total 347,984 370,697
1.  PLC includes Public Company central and share scheme expenses, inter-segment eliminations and the costs, excluding current and past service costs, associated with the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes and the related assets and liabilities. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 76
Financial statements
04 Segmental analysis continued
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
None of the revenue, operating profit or net operating assets arising outside the United Kingdom are material to the Group.
The Group is not dependent upon a single or small number of external customers.
The analysis of the Group’s revenue between sale of goods and the provision of services is as follows:
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Sale of goods 7,018 11,606
Provision of services 340,966 359,091
Group total 347,984 370,697
05 Operating expenses
Consolidated
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Staff costs 68,360 85,953
Restructuring costs relating to employees 7 7,546 1,121
Total staff costs 8 75,906 87,074
Own work capitalised 8 (8,347) (5,906)
Other external charges
1
208,996 209,937
Non-employee related pension charges 29 500 500
Operating lease rentals 3,265 5,022
Auditors’ remuneration 6 477 356
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  16 12,033 16,882
Amortisation of intangible assets 15 5,078 3,390
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 429 (456)
Impairment of goodwill 7 33,900 —
Network rates rebate 7 (5,278) —
Recovery of previously provided debt 7 (756) —
Profit on sale of investments 7 (624) —
Credit on termination of contracts 7 — (2,587)
Strategic pensions advice costs 7 — 700
Onerous lease costs 7 — 178
Total  325,579 315,090
1. Other external charges mainly relate to costs from key partners, such as BT Wholesale.
Non-employee related pension charges represent the cost of administrating the pension schemes as set out in Note 29.
06 Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s Auditors: 
Consolidated
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements and the consolidated 
financial statements 62 62
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 267 163
– audit-related assurance services 58 20
– tax advisory services 15 35
– other non-audit services 75 76
Total 477 356
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 77
Financial statements
07 Exceptional items
Consolidated
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Network rates rebate (5,278) —
Recovery of previously provided debt (756) —
Profit on sale of investments (624) —
Credit on termination of contracts — (2,587)
Credited to income statement (6,658) (2,587)
Impairment of goodwill 14 33,900 —
Restructuring costs 7,546 1,121
Strategic pensions advice costs — 700
Onerous lease costs — 178
Charged to income statement 41,446 1,999
Net charge/(credit) to income statement 34,788 (588)
Network rates rebate relates to a settlement agreed during the year.
Recovery of previously provided debt relates to a settlement of the Group’s written off debt due from Lehman Brothers, which was previously charged 
as an exceptional item. 
The profit on sale of investments relates to the sale of the Group’s previously impaired shareholding in Spectrum Venture Management Fund. 
Credit on termination of contracts arose from a notification of termination following the closure of a regional government sponsored network infrastructure.
In accordance with accounting standards, the Group’s goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment. As part of this review the goodwill 
in the Group’s Kcom brand was deemed to be impaired and as such a charge of £33.9 million has been recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. This is a non-cash item and is treated as exceptional in line with our accounting policy.
As set out in our accounting policy, restructuring costs are shown as exceptional items. During the year the Group incurred £4.4 million in relation 
to the Kcom brand in the first half of the year, £1.7 million relating to strategic IT investment and £1.4 million supporting the Group’s move towards 
a single operating model. 
Strategic pensions advice costs related to the costs incurred for the agreements reached with the Trustees of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes 
to provide the Group with an efficient mechanism of funding the Schemes’ current deficit position. The level of costs reflected both Company and 
the Schemes’ advisor costs.
Onerous lease costs arose as a result of continued rationalisation of the Group’s property portfolio.
The combined tax effect of these items is a credit of £318,000 (2014: charge of £135,000) in respect of current tax and a credit of £2,921,000 
(2014: £Nil) in respect of deferred tax.
08 Employees and remuneration
The average monthly numbers (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year were as follows:
Number of employees
2015 2014
KC 499 650
Kcom 847 984
PLC 430 273
Total 1,776 1,907
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
2015 2014
 Notes £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 54,882 71,746
Social security costs 7,765 8,357
Other pension costs 29 3,867 3,931
Share scheme costs 13 1,846 1,919
Restructuring costs relating to employees 7 7,546 1,121
Total 75,906 87,074
Less own work capitalised 15,16 (8,347) (5,906)
Charged to the income statement 67,559 81,168 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 78
Financial statements
08 Employees and remuneration continued
All of the Group’s employees are employed by the Company with the exception of 336 (2014: 371) employees employed by KC Contact Centres 
Limited and Smart421 Limited.
Disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 on Directors’ remuneration, including salaries, performance-related bonuses, pension contributions 
and pension entitlements, including disclosure in respect of the highest paid Director, are to be found in the tables on pages 50 to 57 within the 
Remuneration report and form part of these financial statements.
09 Finance costs
Consolidated
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 4,234 4,195
Retirement benefit obligations 29 1,067 400
Finance lease and hire purchase contracts 120 —
5,421 4,595
Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 304 480
Total 5,725 5,075
10 Taxation
Analysis of tax charge in the year
The charge based on the profit for the year comprises:
Consolidated
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
UK corporation tax:
– current tax on profits for the year  4,938 3,223
– adjustment in respect of prior years (409) (651)
Total current tax  4,529 2,572
UK deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences in respect of:
– profit for the year 4,154 8,527
– change in rate 56 912
– adjustment in respect of prior years (497) (193)
– charge in respect of retirement benefit obligation  87 (58)
– recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax asset (4,180) —
Total deferred tax 25 (380) 9,188
Total taxation charge for the year  4,149 11,760
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
Consolidated
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Profit before taxation 16,693 50,530
Profit before taxation at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% (2014: 23%) 3,505 11,622
Effects of:
– income not subject to tax (131) —
– expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5,805 69
– recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax asset (4,180) —
– adjustments relating to prior year tax (906) (843)
– change in rate reflected in the deferred tax asset 56 912
Total taxation charge for the year 4,149 11,760
The current tax charge of £4,529,000 (2014: £2,572,000) includes a charge relating to the vesting of the share schemes of £184,000 (2014: £301,000) 
which is a reclassification from the reserves on the unwind of the deferred tax asset. The recognition of a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset 
relates to greater certainty as to the availability of future taxable profits.
Factors affecting the current and future tax charges
The UK main corporation tax rate became 20% on 1 April 2015 and as such the relevant deferred tax balances have been measured at this rate.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 79
Financial statements
11 Dividends
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 2.97 pence per share — 15,343
– interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 1.63 pence per share — 8,421
– final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 of 3.25 pence per share 16,810 —
– interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 1.79 pence per share 9,247 —
Total 26,057 23,764
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 3.58 pence per share, amounting to a total dividend of £18,494,000. In accordance with 
IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
12 Earnings per share 
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following numbers of shares and earnings:
Consolidated
2015 2014
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares
For basic earnings per share 508,619,479 507,645,664
Share options in issue 5,169,178 5,704,438
For diluted earnings per share 513,788,657 513,350,102
2015 2014
 Notes £’000 £’000
Earnings
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 12,544 38,770
Adjustments
Exceptional items 34,788 (588)
T ax on exceptional items (2,921) 135
Exceptional tax credit 10 (4,180) — 
Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the parent 40,231 38,317
Consolidated
2015 2014
Pence Pence
Earnings per share
Basic 2.47 7.64
Diluted 2.44 7.55
Adjusted basic 7.91 7.55
Adjusted diluted 7.83 7.46
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held in trust. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the exceptional items net of 
taxation and dividing this adjusted figure by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares 
purchased by the Company and held in trust.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive 
ordinary shares. The dilutive potential ordinary shares are in the form of share options. A calculation has been done to determine the number of shares 
that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
13 Share-based payments 
The Group had five share-based payment schemes (2014: five) in existence during the year ended 31 March 2015. The Group recognised a total 
charge of £1,846,000 (2014: £1,919,000) in the year relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. 
Share options and Long-Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS)
Share options including LTIS (issued after 7 November 2002) 
Weighted
average
exercise 
price
 Options (pence)
Outstanding at the beginning of year and end of year 42,189 Nil KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 80
Financial statements
13 Share-based payments continued
The share options, including LTIS, outstanding at 31 March 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of Nil pence and a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of Nil years (the Directors have assumed all shares will vest at the earliest available date). Options were granted at £Nil cost for this equity 
settled scheme. No options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2015. The options become exercisable between three and 10 years from grant date, 
provided that the employee remains in employment. Out of the 42,819 outstanding options (2014: 42,189), all were exercisable at 31 March 2015. 
The assumptions used in the Monte Carlo model for the options outstanding at the beginning of the year are as follows: 
2006 2005 2004 2003
grant grant grant grant
Share price (on date of official grant) (pence) 65.9 60.4 64.8 54.3
Exercise price (pence) Nil Nil Nil 56.8
Expected dividend payments (%) 2 1 Nil Nil
Expected term (years) 3 3 3 6.5
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is open to all employees and offers partnership, matching and free shares (the basis depends on the individual’s contribution into the scheme). 
No performance criteria are attached to these matching shares other than an employee must remain employed by the Group for five years from the date 
of grant to be able to have their free and matching shares. In 2014/15, 1,452,145 (2014: 1,399,194) matching shares were granted during the year.
Weighted
average
exercise 
price
Number (pence)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,269,254 Nil
Granted during the year 1,452,145 Nil
Lapsed during the year (2,615,169) Nil
Outstanding at the end of the year 7,106,230 Nil
Smart421 Incentive Scheme (SIS)
The SIS is an equity-settled share-based payment scheme open to senior management in the Smart421 brand. The awards were granted at £Nil cost 
on 1 August 2011 and vest dependent on specific non-market performance conditions over a three year performance period. The plan’s performance 
target measures annual and cumulative profit before tax of Smart421 Limited for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 financial years. On 4 June 2014, the 
Remuneration Committee agreed that all non-market performance measures had been achieved and all awards would vest in full.
Weighted
average
exercise 
price
Number (pence)
Outstanding at the beginning of year 1,500,000 Nil
Vested during the year (1,494,890) Nil
Lapsed during the year (5,110) Nil
Outstanding at the end of the year — Nil
Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) 
F or the EIP, the performance condition was based on the TSR of share price plus dividends paid and was measured on a rolling three month basis during a three 
year performance period. F or further information on the performance conditions and the vesting of the scheme see the Remuneration report on page 52.
 Outstanding at Outstanding at Fair
Vesting Number at the beginning Vested the end of value
Award date release date Number date of grant of the year and released the year (pence)
EIP awards 
24/07/2009 24/07/2013 1 7,480,000 — — — 12
24/07/2009 24/07/2013 3 3,630,000 — — — 11
24/07/2009 24/07/2014 3 1,815,000 — — — 11
24/07/2009 24/07/2014 3 1,815,000 1,017,268 (1,017,268) — 11
19/11/2009 19/11/2013 17 3,038,364 — — — 27
19/11/2009 19/11/2014 17 1,519,182 — — — 26
19/11/2009 19/11/2014 17 1,519,182 906,902 (906,902) — 25
25/02/2010 25/02/2014 17 591,636 — — — 32
25/02/2010 25/02/2014 17 295,818 — — — 31
25/02/2010 25/02/2015 17 295,818 168,478 (168,478) — 30
Total  22,000,000 2,092,648 (2,092,648) — 
The awards have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. 
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 81
Financial statements
13 Share-based payments continued
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The L TIP is an equity-settled share-based payment scheme open to the Executive Directors and selected senior employees at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. The awards were granted at £Nil cost and vest dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance period relative to the TSR performance 
of each company within a comparator group. F or further information on the grants and the performance conditions, see the Remuneration report on page 51.
Weighted
average
exercise 
price
Number (pence)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,982,093 Nil
Granted during the year 1,669,640 Nil
Lapsed during the year (512,206) Nil
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,139,527 Nil
The awards have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. 
The average assumptions used are as follows: 
Share price at date of grant (pence) 76.35
Exercise price (pence) Nil
Volatility (%) 33.28
Risk free rate (%) 0.18
Dividend yield (%) —
14 Goodwill 
Consolidated 
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 31 March 2014 and 2015 85,272
Amounts written off
At 31 March 2014 —
Impairment 33,900
At 31 March 2015 33,900
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 51,372
At 31 March 2014 85,272
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at the date of acquisition to the CGU that is expected to benefit from that business combination. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts 
of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for these value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, 
growth rates and forecast cash flows. The Directors estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU. Growth rates reflect long-term growth rate prospects for the UK economy.
The discount rate and growth rate (in perpetuity) used for value in use calculations are as follows: 
2015 2014 
Discount rate (pre-tax) % – Group 8.2 10.5
Discount rate (pre-tax) % – Eclipse, Kcom and Smart421 CGUs 9.0 11.1
Growth rate (in perpetuity) % – Group 2.0 2.0
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts using the current operating budget approved by the Directors, which covers a five-year period and an 
appropriate extrapolation of cash flows beyond this. The cash flow forecasts assume revenue and EBITDA growth in line with our strategic priorities. 
At 31 March 2015, before the Group’s impairment tests, goodwill of £72,324,000 (2014: £72,324,000) was allocated to the Kcom CGU. The Kcom 
CGU (which represents principally the Group’s Kcom brand) has been affected by the decline of certain traditional legacy activities. The estimates 
used within our value in use calculation take into account that historical experience and the Board’s estimate of future events. 
The results of our impairment test indicated that an impairment of £33,900,000 (2014: £Nil) was required. The assumptions within the value 
in use calculation which had the most significant impact related to movements in cash flows, pre-tax discount rate and perpetuity growth rate. 
The impairment loss arises within the Kcom segment and has been treated as an exceptional item. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 82
Financial statements
14 Goodwill continued
As a result of this impairment charge, the level of headroom is now £Nil and the following changes would therefore impact the remaining carrying 
value of the Kcom CGU goodwill:
Sensitivity £’000
0.1% decrease in growth rate (in perpetuity) (1,471)
0.1% increase in the discount rate (pre-tax) (1,449)
£1m decrease in net cash flows (in perpetuity) (10,885)
For the Eclipse and Smart421 CGUs, management has considered the level of headroom resulting from the impairment tests. Where appropriate, 
further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each CGU. The analysis has indicated that no 
reasonably possible changes in any individual key assumption would cause the carrying amount of the business to exceed its recoverable amount. 
Following the Group’s impairment charge, the carrying amount of goodwill of £51,372,000 (2014: £85,272,000) is allocated across multiple CGUs as follows:
CGUs 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Eclipse 7,862 7,862
Kcom 38,424 72,324
Smart421 5,086 5,086
At 31 March 2015 51,372 85,272
15 Other intangible assets 
Customer
Development and supplier T echnology
Consolidated
costs Software relationship and brand Total
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2013 4,211 28,541 49,257 6,294 88,303
Additions 587 6,474 — — 7,061
Own work capitalised 8 1,970 2,674 — — 4,644
At 31 March 2014 6,768 37,689 49,257 6,294 100,008
Additions 498 14,292 — — 14,790
Own work capitalised 8 3,128 3,850 — — 6,978
Disposals — (7,666) — — (7,666)
Transfers 260 2,289 — — 2,549
At 31 March 2015 10,654 50,454 49,257 6,294 116,659
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2013 3,057 15,341 49,257 6,294 73,949
Charge for the year 1,328 2,062 — — 3,390
At 31 March 2014 4,385 17,403 49,257 6,294 77,339
Charge for the year 2,515 2,563 — — 5,078
Disposals — (7,666) — — (7,666)
Transfers 377 (372) — — 5
At 31 March 2015 7,277 11,928 49,257 6,294 74,756
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2015 3,377 38,526 — — 41,903
At 31 March 2014 2,383 20,286 — — 22,669
At 1 April 2013 1,154 13,200 — — 14,354
Development costs are predominantly capitalised staff costs associated with new products and services.
Software costs include assets under development, the most significant of which related to the Group’s investment in a new IT system. As at 31 March 2014 
the cost of this project was £14.1 million and additions in the year totalled £11.0 million. The project was completed during the year and the asset is 
now being amortised.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 83
Financial statements
16 Property, plant and equipment
Vehicles,
other
apparatus
Land and Exchange External and
Consolidated
buildings equipment plant equipment Total
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2013 15,952 200,504 153,336 35,338 405,130
Additions 101 6,077 4,371 9,817 20,366
Own work capitalised 8 — 349 913 — 1,262
Disposals (1,159) (2) (2) (1,695) (2,858)
At 31 March 2014 14,894 206,928 158,618 43,460 423,900
Additions — 4,343 5,565 6,968 16,876
Own work capitalised 8 — 936 433 — 1,369
Disposals (163) (622) (147) (5,654) (6,586)
Transfers (108) (6,468) 6,959 (2,932) (2,549)
At 31 March 2015 14,623 205,117 171,428 41,842 433,010
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2013 10,777 152,739 98,575 23,769 285,860
Charge for the year 391 4,480 7,767 4,244 16,882
Disposals (1,002) — — (1,679) (2,681)
At 31 March 2014 10,166 157,219 106,342 26,334 300,061
Charge for the year 359 3,375 3,069 5,230 12,033
Disposals (162) (567) (43) (5,385) (6,157)
Transfers (109) (6,888) 6,350 642 (5)
At 31 March 2015 10,254 153,139 115,718 26,821 305,932
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 4,369 51,978 55,710 15,021 127,078
At 31 March 2014 4,728 49,709 52,276 17,126 123,839
At 1 April 2013 5,175 47,765 54,761 11,569 119,270
In line with its accounting policy and in light of market activity relating to network assets, the Group has assessed the appropriateness of the residual 
value of its network assets (held above within external plant). This has resulted in higher residual values and a £4.9 million reduction in the 
depreciation charge for these assets in the year. 
Asset classes have been reviewed as part of the implementation of a new accounting system, resulting in transfers between categories. 
17 Investments
Shares in
Consolidated 
associates
£’000
Cost
At 1 April 2013 22
Share of net loss for the year (2)
At 31 March 2014 20
Share of net profit for the year 13
At 31 March 2015 33
Amounts written off
At 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 —
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 33
At 31 March 2014 20 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 84
Financial statements
17 Investments continued
Shares in
subsidiary
Parent company 
undertakings
£’000
Cost 
At 31 March 2014 and 2015 494,511
Amounts written off
At 31 March 2014 and 2015 50
Net book value
At 31 March 2014 and 2015 494,461
Subsidiary undertakings (as at 31 March 2015)
The shares in subsidiary undertakings are held in KCH (Holdings) Limited, an intermediary holding company registered in England. In accordance with 
Section 410(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, the details of the undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, 
principally affect the figures shown in these accounts are listed below. A full list will be appended to the Company’s next Annual Return. All of the 
following companies are indirectly 100% owned by the Company via KCH (Holdings) Limited and are all registered in England.
Name of company Business activity
Kingston Communications Limited T elecommunications services
Affiniti Integrated Solutions Ltd Supplier of integrated and converged communication services
Kingston Information Services Limited Publication of telephone directories
KC Contact Centres Limited Provision of call centre services
Smart421 Limited Provision of IT solutions and application service management
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation of the Group.
Associates
The Group’s associate is Smartintegrator T echnology Limited, in which the Company indirectly holds 50% of the ordinary shares. Under an agreement 
between the shareholders of Smartintegrator T echnology Limited, neither the Group nor the shareholders are able to exercise control over the operational 
and financial policies of Smartintegrator T echnology Limited. The associate is registered in England and its main business activity is software development.
18 Inventories
Consolidated
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 2,235 2,269
Equipment for resale — 378
Total 2,235 2,647
There is no material difference between the carrying value and the replacement cost of inventories.
19 Trade and other receivables
Consolidated Parent company
2015 2014 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables (net) 46,082 36,266 — —
Other receivables 1,382 820 — —
Prepayments 17,570 19,400 5 5
Accrued income 13,756 17,649 — —
Total 78,790 74,135 5 5
All of the Group’s receivables are due within one year in both 2015 and 2014. An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of 
goods and services of £1,426,000 (2014: £1,489,000). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximate to their f air value.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2015
£’000
At 1 April 2014 (1,489)
Written off in the year 1,198
Amounts provided for in the year (1,135)
At 31 March 2015 (1,426)
The majority of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in Sterling.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 85
Financial statements
19 Trade and other receivables continued
Note 27 provides further disclosures regarding the credit risk of the Group’s trade receivables.
As of 31 March 2015, trade receivables of £11,928,000 (2014: £5,817,000) were impaired. The amount of the provision was £1,426,000 as of 31 March 2015 
(2014: £1,489,000). The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers who are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations. 
It was assessed that a portion of the impaired balance is expected to be recovered. There is no concern over the debt not yet due.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
0–3 months 10,222 421
3–6 months 1,706 3,689
6 months + — 1,707
 11,928 5,817
As of 31 March 2015, trade receivables of £6,371,000 (2014: £8,994,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers of whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
0–3 months 2,719 4,720
3–6 months 3,652 3,756
6 months + — 518
 6,371 8,994
20 Trade and other payables
Consolidated Parent company
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Trade payables 34,292 40,257 — —
Other taxes and social security costs 6,137 5,178 — —
Other payables 7,443 3,461 — —
Accruals 36,651 53,467 — —
Deferred income 28,446 25,954 — —
Total 112,969 128,317 — —
Non-current
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings — — 7,484 2,865
Total 112,969 128,317 7,484 2,865
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The Directors consider that the carrying 
amount of current liabilities approximates to their fair value.
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and have no fixed date of repayment. However, the subsidiary undertakings have confirmed 
that none of the amounts are due within one year. Interest at market rates is charged on amounts due to subsidiary undertakings after more than one 
year, except for amounts due to dormant entities where nil interest is charged. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 86
Financial statements
21 Bank loans
Consolidated
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Bank borrowings
Amount falling due:
– between two and five years 105,000 85,000
 105,000 85,000
Loan issue costs (1,540) (583)
103,460 84,417
The loan facility was secured by guarantees given by all material subsidiaries of KCOM Group PLC in favour of the lending banks.
The bank borrowings are fully repayable in June 2019 and attract an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin dependent on specific covenants. For further 
information on interest rate swaps, see Note 27. The above bank facilities were refinanced in June 2014. See Note 27 for further detail.
The fair value of bank borrowings is £91.6 million (2014: £80.7 million). The fair value of cash flows has been estimated using a rate based on the 
weighted average borrowing rate of 3.2% (2014: 3.9%).
22 Net debt
Consolidated
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Cash 11,701 9,441
Bank overdrafts (691) —
Cash and cash equivalents (including bank overdrafts) 11,010 9,441
Borrowings 21 (103,460) (84,417)
Finance leases 23 (6,898) —
Total net debt  (99,348) (74,976)
Cash and cash equivalents, which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet, comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits 
and other short-term, highly liquid investments with maturity of three months or less.
23 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts
Consolidated
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Finance lease liabilities:
minimum lease payments
– within 12 months 1,743 —
– in 1 to 5 years 5,506 —
7,249 
Future finance charges (351) —
Present value of finance lease liabilities 6,898 —
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
– within 12 months 1,743 —
– in 1 to 5 years 5,155 —
Total 6,898 —
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 87
Financial statements
24 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Onerous
leases Restructuring Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2014 548 242 790
Established in the year — 7,547 7,547
Utilised in the year (139) (5,593) (5,732)
At 31 March 2015 409 2,196 2,605
Total provisions for other liabilities and charges 2015 
Included in current liabilities 409 2,170 2,579
Included in non-current liabilities — 26 26
At 31 March 2015 409 2,196 2,605
Total provisions for other liabilities and charges 2014
Included in current liabilities 149 216 365
Included in non-current liabilities 399 26 425
At 31 March 2014 548 242 790
Provision has been made for the estimated fair value of unavoidable lease payments on unoccupied buildings. It is expected that these payments will 
arise over the next one to three years.
The restructuring provision represents the future costs of the Group’s ongoing restructuring programme which are committed to at the balance sheet 
date. The amounts included within current liabilities above are expected to be utilised within the next 12 months.
25 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
Consolidated 
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 4,175 7,978 — — 4,175 7,978
Other timing differences 1,064 2,130 — — 1,064 2,130
Retirement benefit obligation 6,287 5,300 — — 6,287 5,300
Intangible assets on acquisition 4,766 — — (14) 4,766 (14)
Asset-backed partnership — — (4,589) (5,043) (4,589) (5,043)
16,292 15,408 (4,589) (5,057) 11,703 10,351
Movements in net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are as follows:
Intangible
Property, Other Retirement assets Asset- 
plant and timing benefit arising on backed 
Consolidated 
equipment differences obligation acquisition partnerships Total
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 April 2013 13,840 2,757 2,245 (14) (2,300) 16,528
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 10 (5,862) (484) 58 — (2,900) (9,188)
(Charged)/credited directly to equity and other 
comprehensive income — (143) 2,997 — 157 3,011
At 31 March 2014 7,978 2,130 5,300 (14) (5,043) 10,351
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 10 (3,803) (510) (87) 4,780 — 380
(Charged)/credited directly to equity and other 
comprehensive income — (556) 1,074 — 454 972
At 31 March 2015 4,175 1,064 6,287 4,766 (4,589) 11,703
There are £Nil deferred tax assets in the Parent company (2014: £Nil).
The analysis of deferred tax assets is as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 10,185 9,806
Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 6,107 5,602
16,292 15,408 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 88
Financial statements
25 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities continued
The analysis of deferred tax liabilities is as follows:
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months (4,169) (4,603)
Deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months (420) (454)
(4,589) (5,057)
The major components of the deferred taxation asset not recognised are as follows:
Not recognised
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Losses 1,126 1,126
Intangible assets arising on acquisition — 4,180
Deferred tax assets relating to property, plant and equipment and short-term timing differences of £9.2 million (2014: £8.3 million) have been 
recognised in those subsidiary companies in which there is sufficient available evidence that suitable taxable profits will arise against which these 
assets are expected to reverse. There are additional deferred tax assets of £1.1 million (2014: £5.3 million) which have not been recognised, as there 
is insufficient evidence as to the generation of suitable profits against which these assets can be offset. The utilisation of these assets would reduce 
the Group’s tax charge in future periods. All deferred tax assets and liabilities are provided for at the future rate of corporation tax that is substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date, being 20% (2014: 20%).
26 Called-up share capital
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
516,603,910 (2014: 516,603,910) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 51,660 51,660
During the financial year, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares (2014: Nil); however, the Company funds Employee Share Trusts 
to meet its obligations under the Company’s share schemes. During the year the Trusts purchased 4,170,000 (2014: 2,043,000) of the Company’s 
ordinary shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange for a total cash consideration of £4,058,000 (2014: £1,778,000) in order to meet 
future obligations under the Company’s SIP, EIP and LTIP schemes. The total amount paid to acquire the shares, net of expenses and cash received 
for the exercise of share options, of £4,058,000 (2014: £1,764,000) has been deducted from retained earnings.
As of 31 March 2015, the total number of ordinary shares held by the Trusts to meet obligations under the Company’s share schemes was 
165,000 (2014: 205,000).
27 Financial instruments and risk management
The Group’s principal financial instruments during the year comprised bank loans, cash on short-term deposits, interest rate swaps and forward foreign 
exchange contracts. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations, to manage the interest rate risk arising from 
its sources of finance and to minimise the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on future cash flows. The Group has various other financial 
instruments such as short-term receivables and payables which arise directly from its operations.
The Group regularly reviews its exposure to interest, liquidity and foreign currency risk. Where appropriate the Group will take action, in accordance 
with a Board approved Treasury policy, to minimise the impact on the business of movements in interest rates and currency rates.
The Group only enters into derivative instruments with members of the banking group to ensure appropriate counterparty credit quality.
Liquidity risk
The Group keeps its short, medium and long-term funding requirements under constant review. Its policy is to have sufficient committed funds 
available to meet medium-term requirements, with flexibility and headroom to make minor acquisitions for cash if the opportunity should arise.
The Group’s bank facilities were refinanced in June 2014 to replace existing facilities. These bank facilities comprise a multi-currency revolving credit 
facility of £200.0 million, provided by a group of five core relationship banks. The facility matures in June 2019. The Group considers that this facility 
will provide sufficient funding to meet the organic and inorganic investment needs of the business. In addition, short-term flexibility of funding is 
available under the £10.0 million overdraft facility provided by the Group’s clearing bankers.
The net debt position of £75.0 million at the beginning of the financial year has increased during the year to net debt of £99.3 million. The Group 
generated positive cash flow after investing activities of £19.2 million for the year (2014: £44.0 million).
The table on page 89 analyses the Group’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. Notional interest is included for the period from the year end up to 
the contractual maturity date of the debt, calculated on the amount of debt drawn down at the year end.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 89
Financial statements
27 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Liquidity risk continued
Less than One to Over
one year three years three years
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March 2014
Borrowings 2,604 85,868 —
Trade and other payables 123,139 — —
Cash flow hedges 137 1,669 —
Total 125,880 87,537 —
At 31 March 2015 
Borrowings 1,734 3,465 107,146
Trade and other payables 106,832 — —
Cash flow hedges 706 — —
Finance leases 1,743 5,155 —
Total 111,015 8,620 107,146
The table below sets out the year end fair value of derivative financial instruments by category:
2015 2014
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges — 706 — 1,806
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 328 — — —
Total 328 706 — 1,806
Less non-current portion:
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges — — — 1,669
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges — — — —
 — — — 1,669
Current portion 328 706 — 137
Interest rate risks
Sterling interest rate swaps were held during the year that fixed approximately 65% (2014: 80%) of the year end net debt excluding finance leases. 
The weighted average fixed interest rate payable (including margin) was 3.6% (2014: 3.90%). The weighted average rate of current interest rate swaps 
in place at the year end was 2.71% (excluding margin). Maturity dates of the current interest rate swaps are all July 2015 and reflect the forecast profile 
of net debt over the period. The weighted average period over which the interest rates are fixed is 0.33 years (2014: 1.3 years). Interest rate exposures 
will continue to be hedged in accordance with the Treasury policy.
The impact of an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points is shown in the table below:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Reduction/(increase) in profit before tax 327 (150)
The sensitivity of profit before tax is calculated based on floating rate borrowings at the balance sheet date, after deducting floating rate financial 
assets and amounts hedged into fixed rates by interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk
Cash flow exposure
The Group’s only major foreign currency risk arises due to the purchase of equipment invoiced in US Dollars. Whenever possible the Group resells this 
equipment in US Dollars. The remaining exposure is managed principally through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts in order to minimise 
the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on future cash flows and gross margin.
The Group also has some Euro cash flows but these are not material on a net basis and are not hedged.
Net asset exposure
The Dollar denominated trading described above results in a balance sheet exposure since debtor days are longer than creditor days. It is the Group’s 
policy not to hedge this exposure.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to business and retail customers.
Credit ratings of institutions which hold the Group’s financial assets are regularly monitored to ensure they meet the minimum credit criteria set by the Board 
through the Group Treasury policy. At the year end all the institutions holding the Group’s financial assets were rated A-/A- or higher by Standard and Poor’s.
The credit quality of customers is assessed by taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors. Individual risk limits are 
set and the utilisation of credit limits monitored regularly.  KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 90
Financial statements
27 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Credit risk continued
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. For an analysis of the quality of the 
ageing of the Group’s trade receivables, see Note 19 for further disclosures. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold 
any collateral as security. 
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets
The Group had net financial assets of £11.0 million at the year end (2014: £9.4 million), comprising cash on overnight money market deposits and 
cash at bank. This attracts floating rates of interest.
The currency profile of the Group’s financial assets at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 was:
2015 2014 
 £’000 £’000
Currency
Sterling 12,052 7,955
US Dollar (1,572) 909
Euro 530 577
Total 11,010 9,441
Foreign currency cash balances are held on a short-term basis to fund cash flow requirements in these currencies. All trade receivable balances are held 
in sterling and bear no interest. There is no currency risk associated with these balances.
At the year end £1.3 million (2014: £1.3 million) of cash collateral was held by Barclays in respect of a bank guarantee given under Ofcom’s ‘Funds for 
Liabilities’ regulations.
Financial liabilities
The currency and interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial borrowings at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 was:
2015 2014
Floating Fixed Total Floating Fixed Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling 43,460 60,000 103,460 24,417 60,000 84,417
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities at the year end were £95.0 million (2014: £115.0 million).
Interest on amounts drawn under the committed borrowing facility is based on the relevant LIBOR plus margin. All trade payable balances are held 
in sterling and bear no interest. There is no currency risk associated with these balances.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The mark-to-market value of the interest rate swaps and forward contracts at 31 March 2015 was an asset of £0.4 million (2014: liability of £1.0 million). 
Interest rate swaps are accounted for by adjusting the interest cost on the floating debt return. The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities 
is obtained from third party sources. The movement in mark-to-market value is reflected in reserves and is shown in the table below:
 £’000
Hedging reserve 
31 March 2014 (986)
Movement in the year 1,428
31 March 2015 442
The effectiveness of the interest rate swaps was tested quarterly throughout the period, and at the year end, and all are considered to be effective 
cash flow hedges. There are no other significant differences between the fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities and their book value.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
 I quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1); 
 I inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly 
(that is, derived from prices) (level 2); and 
 I inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). 
All of the Group’s financial instruments fall into hierarchy level 2.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, support the growth of the business 
and maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 91
Financial statements
27 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Capital risk management continued
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of its gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net 
debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current borrowings’ as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is shown in the table below and is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Net debt 99,348 74,976
Total equity 68,879 85,153
Total capital 168,227 160,129
Under the Group’s £200 million revolving credit facility the Group is required to comply annually with certain financial and non-financial covenants. 
The Group is required to maintain a minimum interest cover ratio and a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio. Both financial covenants were tested and 
complied with throughout the year and at the year end. The Board monitors both covenant compliance and net debt performance on a regular basis. 
28 Financial commitments
Authorised future capital expenditure and financial investment amounted to:
Consolidated
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 750 6,354
Intangible assets 696 2,575
Total 1,446 8,929
The Group as lessee
The future aggregate minimum lease rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
Consolidated
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Leasehold buildings:
– within 12 months 3,363 3,871
– in 1 to 5 years 9,094 9,600
– after 5 years 6,412 7,217
Total 18,869 20,688
Plant and equipment:
– within 12 months 1,183 899
– in 1 to 5 years 487 1,618
Total 1,670 2,517
None of the Group’s lease arrangements include any contingent rent payments and there are no renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses. 
There are also no restrictions imposed by the Group’s lease arrangements.
29 Retirement benefit obligation – consolidated
Defined contribution schemes
The Company operates defined contribution schemes, which are open to all eligible employees. Contributions charged to the income statement 
in respect of defined contribution schemes amounted to £3.9 million (2014: £3.9 million).
Defined benefit schemes
The principal defined benefit scheme at 31 March 2015 was the Kingston Communications Pension Scheme, which is a funded scheme and provides 
defined benefits based on final pensionable salary. The assets of the scheme are held separately from the assets of the Group in Trustee administered 
funds. The Company operates also a second funded defined benefit scheme, the Kingston Communications (Data) Pension Scheme. Both schemes are 
closed to both new members and future accrual.
The defined benefit schemes are operated in the UK under the same regulatory frameworks. Both of the schemes are final salary pension schemes, 
which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ 
length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement. In the schemes, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with 
the retail price index. In addition to this inflationary risk, the schemes face the same risks, as described below. 
All of the benefit payments are from Trustee administered funds. Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practice, as is the 
nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustees (or equivalent) and their composition. Responsibility for governance of the plans 
– including investment decisions and contribution schedules – lies jointly with the Group and the Trustees. The Trustees must be composed of 
representatives of the Group and scheme participants in accordance with the scheme’s regulations. KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 92
Financial statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation – consolidated continued
Parent company
KCH (Holdings) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent, is responsible for all obligations and liabilities of the schemes. An equivalent liability 
has been provided in the accounts of KCH (Holdings) Limited.
The Parent company provides a guarantee to both defined benefit schemes, whereby if KCH (Holdings) Limited is unable to meet its obligations to the 
schemes, such obligations would be met by the Parent company. No liability has been recognised in respect of the guarantee at 31 March 2015 (2014: £Nil).
Most recent valuations
The most recent formal valuation for the Kingston Communications Pension Scheme was at 31 March 2014. The main long-term financial 
assumptions used in that valuation were:
Per annum
 %
Rate of return on scheme assets 3.90
Rate of future salary inflation 2.90
The most recent formal valuation for the Kingston Communications (Data) Pension Scheme was at 31 March 2014. The main long-term financial 
assumptions used in that valuation were:
Per annum
 %
Rate of return on scheme assets 4.10
Rate of future salary inflation 2.90
Funding
Asset backed partnership
On 24 March 2014, the Group reached an agreement with the Trustees to provide further funding of the Schemes’ current deficit position through the 
asset-backed Partnership (“the Partnership”) that had been previously established during the year ended 31 March 2013.
As part of this agreement, a loan note of £20.0 million was secured over the KC network asset. The security does not offer the Trustees any ‘normal’ rights 
of enforcement over the assets. Instead it provides first priority payment of any value that would be realised from the KC network on an insolvency event.
As partner in the Partnership, the pension schemes are entitled to an annual income distribution of £1.6 million, rising in line with the Consumer Price 
Index (CPI) (capped at 5%) over a potential period of 15 years. The total value of this income distribution to the Schemes is £16.0 million, which 
provided an immediate improvement to the funding deficit. 
Under IAS 19, the investment held by the pension schemes in the Partnership does not represent a plan asset for the purpose of the Group’s consolidated 
accounts. The distribution of the Partnership’s profits to the pension schemes is reflected as pension contributions in these Group accounts on a cash basis.
Employer contributions for the year ended 31 March 2015
The disclosures in the table below are for the two schemes combined.
Contributions into the two defined benefit schemes during the year were as follows:
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Deficit payments 4,270 788
Existing committed deficit recovery payments due over the financial year ending 31 March 2016 are £2.0 million.
Main financial assumptions
2015 2014
per annum per annum
 % %
RPI inflation 2.95 3.40
CPI inflation 1.95 2.40
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.00 2.40
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.25 4.30
Our central approach is to base the discount rate on the AA yield curve published by Merrill Lynch, over an 18-year duration for the schemes.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables, which allow for future improvements in life expectancy. The effects of these tables are that:
 I a future pensioner aged 65 at retirement will live on average to age 89.4 (2014: 89.0) if they are male and on average to age 91.8 (2014: 91.2) 
if they are female; and
 I a current pensioner aged 65 will live on average to age 87.7 (2014: 87.1) if they are male and on average to age 89.9 (2014: 89.1) if they are female.
The defined benefit obligation reflects the assumption that 20% (2014: 20%) of deferred members will transfer out of the scheme over its life. Where 
such transfers take place, the value of such transfers is assumed to be 0% (2014: 0%) above the current IAS 19 value for individual members.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 93
Financial statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation – consolidated continued
Main financial assumptions continued
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are discount rate, inflation and mortality. The sensitivity of the retirement benefit obligation deficit to changes 
in the assumptions is as follows:
Impact on the retirement benefit obligation
Sensitivity Of increase Of decrease
RPI inflation 0.1% 7.3% (7.0%)
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.1% (14.3%) 14.6%
Mortality 1 year 19.7% (20.0%)
The sensitivity analysis in the table above is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the retirement benefit obligation 
deficit to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit liability calculated with the projected unit credit 
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the retirement benefit obligation deficit recognised in the Group 
balance sheet.
Fair value of assets
Value at Value at
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Equities 37,701 34,300
Hedge funds 51,480 45,000
Index linked gilts 59,465 26,200
Corporate bonds 34,550 41,300
Other 25,586 44,300
Total fair value of assets 208,782 191,100
History of asset values, defined benefit obligation, deficit in scheme and experience gains and losses
Restated
1
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 March
Present value of defined benefit obligation (240,217) (217,600) (203,300) (199,377) (175,716)
Fair value of plan assets 208,782 191,100 193,542 185,491 168,789
Deficit (31,435) (26,500) (9,758) (13,886) (6,927)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 14,407 (3,130) 7,715 (2,860) (507)
Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities (21,670) (13,500) (3,010) (22,606) 32,011
1. The comparative results have been restated for changes in IAS 19 (Employee benefits).
The Group employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical markets are studied and 
assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. 
Reconciliation of funded status to balance sheet
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Fair value of assets 208,782 191,100
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (240,217) (217,600)
Liability recognised on the balance sheet (31,435) (26,500)
Analysis of income and expenditure charge:
– administration expenses 500 500
– finance costs 1,067 400
Charge recognised in the income statement 1,567 900 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 94
Financial statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation – consolidated continued
Fair value of assets continued
Reconciliation of funded status to balance sheet continued
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the year
Opening defined benefit obligation 217,600 203,300
Finance costs 9,182 9,100
Remeasurements arising from changes in financial assumptions 22,170 12,400
Remeasurements arising from changes in demographic assumptions (500) 1,100
Net benefits paid out (8,235) (8,300)
Closing defined benefit obligation 240,217 217,600
2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Changes to the fair value of scheme assets
Opening fair value of assets 191,100 193,542
Finance income 8,115 8,700
Administration expenses (500) (500)
Asset-backed partnership expenses (375) —
Remeasurements 14,407 (3,130)
Contributions by the employer 2,270 788
Deficit repair payments 2,000 —
Net benefits paid out (8,235) (8,300)
Closing fair value of assets 208,782 191,100
30 Other commitments and contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities existed at 31 March 2015 and at 31 March 2014 in respect of guarantees given by the Parent company on behalf of subsidiary 
undertakings, together with contingencies arising in the normal course of the Group’s business in respect of overdraft facilities. None of these 
guarantees are considered material in the context of the net assets of the Group.
31 Related party transactions
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors who are the key management personnel of KCOM Group PLC, is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 42 to 57 and forms part of these financial statements.
Intra-Group transactions
Amounts payable by the Company to subsidiaries totalled £7.5 million (2014: £2.9 million) as at 31 March 2015.
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 95
Financial statements
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Income statement (total operations)
Revenue 347,984 370,697 372,869 387,316 395,412 
EBITDA before exceptional items 74,304 75,291 74,862 77,875 75,963
Group operating profit before exceptional items 57,193 55,019 55,250 57,770 48,631
Profit after taxation before exceptional items
1
44,093 38,317 37,395 37,727 28,624
Profit after taxation (reported) 12,544 38,770 35,845 37,727 22,621
Balance sheet
Non-current assets 236,678 247,208 235,446 239,639 242,272
Current assets (excluding cash) 81,353 76,782 72,510 75,530 72,943
Current liabilities (excluding finance leases and overdrafts) (118,754) (130,210) (123,592) (146,367) (151,154)
Net debt (including finance leases) (99,348) (74,976) (88,218) (75,267) (81,996)
Provisions and other non-current liabilities (excluding finance leases) (36,050) (33,651) (13,504) (20,078) (8,871) 
Total equity 63,879 85,153 82,642 73,457 73,194
Movement in debt
Net cash flow from:
– operating activities 50,779 71,266 50,309 55,994 68,009
– capital expenditure (32,022) (27,912) (27,996) (22,148) (13,948)
– interest (5,574) (4,436) (4,006) (7,363) (8,574)
– equity dividends paid (26,057) (23,764) (21,387) (19,786) (12,140) 
– other (11,498) (1,912) (9,871) 33 1,452
(Increase)/decrease in net debt (24,372) 13,242 (12,951) 6,730 34,799
Ratios and other key information
Average number of employees 1,776 1,907 1,886 1,792 1,801
EBITDA before exceptional items to revenue (%) 21.4 20.3 20.0 20.1 19.2
Group operating profit before exceptional items to revenue (%) 16.4 14.8 14.8 14.9 12.3
Basic earnings per share (pence) 2.47 7.64 7.08 7.41 4.44
Dividend per share relating to the financial year (pence) 5.37 4.88 4.44 4.00 3.60 
1. Including the tax impact of exceptional items.
Five year summary of consolidated figures
as at 31 March 2015 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 96
Financial statements
Shareholder information
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
(at 31 March 2015 by category)
Number of Number of % of
 holders shares capital
Private shareholders 53,263 50,919,389 9.86
Insurance company 0 0 0.00
Investment trust 5 108,001 0.02
Pension fund 0 0 0.00
Nominee companies 1,117 381,650,379 73.88
Limited company 71 787,131 0.15
Bank and bank nominees 15 82,763,826 16.02
Other institutions 14 375,184 0.07
Total 54,485 516,603,910 100.00
Financial calendar 
Annual General Meeting 31 July 2015
Half year results announcement (provisional) 25 November 2015
Final results announcement (provisional) 10 June 2016
Information relating to beneficial owners of shares with ‘information rights’
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder 
of those shares to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 
are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than 
to the Group’s registrar, Capita Asset Services, or to KCOM Group PLC directly.
Company information
Registered office
KCOM Group PLC
37 Carr Lane 
Hull HU1 3RE
Registered in England and Wales
Company number
2150618
Investor relations
KCOM Group PLC
37 Carr Lane 
Hull HU1 3RE
Email: investor.relations@kcom.com 
T el: 01482 602711 
Website: www.kcomplc.com
Corporate responsibility
KCOM Group PLC
37 Carr Lane 
Hull HU1 3RE
Advisors
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditors 
Benson House 
33 Wellington Street 
Leeds LS1 4JP
Registrar
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Email: 
shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk 
T el: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 
10 pence per minute plus network 
extras; lines are open 
9.00am – 5.30pm Monday – Friday) 
Website: 
www.capitaassetservices.com
Financial advisors
Barclays
1 Churchill Place 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5HP
Peel Hunt
Moor House 
120 London Road 
London EC2Y 5ET   For more information please visit
www.kcomplc.com
This document is completely CarbonNeutral
®
.
The unavoidable CO 2e generated by this document 
has been reduced to net zero through verified carbon 
offset projects.
The papers used in this report is Amadeus 100 Offset. 
The pulp is 100% recycled post-consumer waste. 
The printer and the manufacturing mills are accredited 
with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental 
management and both are FSC
®
 certified.
KCOM Group PLC        Annual report and accounts 2014/15 KCOM Group PLC        Annual report and accounts 2014/15
