 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2015 Operational highlights
Another year of good progress.
Operating profit
*
 up to
£103.4m
Cash generated from operations
*
 
down to
£142.3m
Total dividend increased to
27.1 p
per share
 
 
Group revenue down year on year by
-2.3%
Group operating margin
*
 up to 
6.6%
Earnings per share
*
 increased to
86.4p
per share
 
 
*
 Before exceptional items.
Our reputation is built on 
engineering excellence and  
a commitment to continual 
innovation. Wherever Keller 
operates and whatever the 
circumstances, we have the 
ability to gather together the 
right people, skills, processes, 
equipment and thinking to 
deliver any project brilliantly.
By precisely blending these 
elements at the right time,  
we achieve local results that  
set the global standard.  1
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Key financial highlights
Revenue from continuing operations (£m)
£1 ,562.4m
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
1,154.3
1,317.5
1,438.2
1,599.7
1,562.4
Operating prot (£m)
*
£103.4m
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
28.9
48.3
77.8
92.0
103.4
Earnings per share (pence)
*
86.4p
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
24.8
45.9
73.0
75.3
86.4
Return on capital employed (%)
*
20.5%
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
6.6
11.6
16.7
18.3
20.5
Cautionary statement
This document contains certain ‘forward-looking statements’ with respect to Keller’s financial condition, results of operations 
and business and certain of Keller’s plans and objectives with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as 
‘anticipates’, ‘aims’, ‘due’, ‘will’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘potential’, ‘reasonably possible’, ‘targets’, 
‘goal’ or ‘estimates’. By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk 
and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates; changes in the 
regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates; the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which 
affect the Group; and changes in interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Keller 
or any other member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors 
referred to above. Keller does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be regarded as a profits forecast.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any securities of Keller Group plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not soliciting 
an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities in any jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred in the 
United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act.
*
 Before exceptional items.
Overview
1 Highlights
2 About Keller
Strategic report
Strategy
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive Officer’s review
8 Our markets
10 Our business model
12 Our strategy
14 Strategy in action
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
29 Resources and relationships
Performance
32 Executive Committee
34 Operating review
34  North America
34  Australia
35  EMEA
35  Asia
36 Financial review
Governance
40 Corporate governance statement
40  Board of Directors 
42  Chairman’s introduction
48   Health, Safety & Environment  
Committee report
49  Nomination Committee report
50  Audit Committee report
52 Directors’ remuneration report
67 Directors’ report
69  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
70 Independent Auditor’s report
Financial statements
72  Consolidated income statement
72  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
73  Consolidated balance sheet
74  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
75  Consolidated cash flow statement
76  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
98  Company balance sheet
99  Company statement of changes in equity
100  Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
106 Financial record
107 Principal offices
108 Secretary and advisers
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Highlights Contents 2
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
We are the market leader in 
North America, where we have 
had a market presence for over 
30 years. Today, we operate from 
locations spanning the US and 
Canada. Hayward Baker offers 
extensive ground engineering 
solutions across North America. 
In the US, Case, McKinney and HJ 
are heavy foundation specialists 
and Suncoast provides post-
tension cable systems. In Canada, 
Geo-Foundations specialises in 
micro-piling, ground anchors, and 
specialty grouting services and 
Keller Canada offers a broad 
range of piling solutions.
Our EMEA division has 
operations across Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa, together 
with a developing business in 
Latin America. We operate as 
Keller in most of these regions, 
other than Sub-Saharan Africa, 
where we operate under the 
Franki brand. 
In recent years we have built  
up our presence in Asia, where 
we started life as a ground 
improvement specialist, but now 
offer a wide range of foundation 
services. We are well established 
in Singapore, India and Malaysia, 
with developing businesses in 
other parts of the ASEAN 
Region. In Asia we generally 
operate as Keller, although the 
Resource Piling name has been 
retained alongside the Keller 
brand in Singapore.
Keller offers a range of piling 
services under its Keller 
Foundations brand. Keller 
Ground Engineering (‘KGE’) 
offers specialist ground 
improvement and geotechnical 
solutions. Austral Construction 
(‘Austral’) and Waterway 
Constructions (‘Waterway’) 
specialise in foundations for, and 
the maintenance of, wharves, 
jetties and other marine 
structures. 
Although they specialise in 
different techniques, on very 
large or complex projects, the 
companies may join forces, under 
the Keller Australia brand.
 US 91%
 Canada 9%
Revenue (£m) +9.7% 
£851.2m
Operating profit
*
 (£m) +27.5% 
£76.4m
*
 Before exceptional items.
 Western Europe 50%
 Africa 18%
 Eastern Europe 17%
 Middle East 8%
 Other 7%
Revenue (£m) -2.2% 
£441.5m
Operating profit
*
 (£m) +65.1% 
£21.3m
*
 Before exceptional items.
 Singapore 43%
 Malaysia 40%
 India 13%
 Other 4%
Revenue (£m) -2.8% 
£108.2m
Operating profit
*
 (£m) -45.8% 
£4.5m
*
 Before exceptional items.
 Keller Foundations 50%
 Waterway 32%
 Austral 12%
 KGE 6%
Revenue (£m) -38.2% 
£161.5m
Operating profit
*
 (£m) -54.1% 
£7.2m
*
 Before exceptional items.
About Keller
Market leaders We operate in over 40 countries: we are  
the clear market leader in North America, 
Australia and Sub-Saharan Africa; we have  
prime positions in most established European 
markets; and we have a strong profile in  
many developing markets. 
North America EMEA
Asia Australia 3
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Products We are the world’s largest 
independent ground engineering 
specialist, renowned for providing 
technically advanced and cost-effective 
foundation solutions.
Our products are used across the 
construction sector in infrastructure, 
industrial, commercial residential and 
environmental projects.
  Pi l i n g a n d  
earth retention
01
Piling involves the installation of structural 
elements to transfer foundation loads 
through weak soils to stronger underlying 
ground. Keller offers a wide range of piling 
and earth retention systems including 
diaphragm walls and marine piles. 
Read more on page 14
  G r ou nd 
improvement
02
Ground improvement techniques are used 
to prepare the ground for new construction 
projects and to reduce the risk of 
liquefaction in areas of seismic activity.
Read more on page 19
  A n c h o r s , n a i l s  
and minipiles
03
Anchors, nails and minipiles can provide 
temporary or permanent solutions for a 
wide range of stability or support problems 
and are often used to underpin or stabilise 
buildings, slopes and embankments.
Read more on page 21
  I n s t r ume n t a t i on  
and monitoring
06
Keller specialises in providing instrumentation 
and monitoring solutions for a wide range of 
applications. We provide and install a wide 
range of instruments and then provide 
reliable and repeatable data.
Read more on page 25
  P os t - t e ns i o n  
concrete
05
Post-tension cable systems are used to 
reinforce concrete foundations and structural 
spans, enhancing their load-bearing capacity by 
applying a compressive force to the concrete, 
once set. Suncoast’s post-tension systems are 
used in foundation slabs for single family homes.
  S p e c i a lt y  
grouting
04
Specialty grouting strengthens target areas 
in the ground and controls ground water 
flow through rocks and soils by reducing 
their permeability. It is applicable both to 
new construction projects and to repair and 
maintenance work. 
Read more on page 22
Approximate split of products
01 Piling and earth retention 50%
02 Ground improvement 20%
03 Anchors, nails and minipiles 10%
04 Specialty grouting 10%
05 Post-tension concrete 9%
06 Instrumentation and monitoring 1% Roy A Franklin
Chairman
Chairman’s  
statement
The 2015 results 
demonstrate the 
continued strength 
of the Group’s  
business.
4
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Results
1
 
I am pleased to report another year of good 
progress in 2015. Whilst Group revenue fell by 
2% to £1,562.4m (2014: £1,599.7m), primarily due 
to the completion of the Group’s largest ever 
contract, Wheatstone in Australia, towards the 
end of 2014, operating profit increased by 12% 
to £103.4m (2014: £92.0m), and profit before tax 
increased to £95.7m, up 12% on the previous 
year’s £85.1m. Earnings per share were 86.4p 
(2014: 75.3p).
The Group’s operating margin improved to 6.6% 
(2014: 5.8%), achieving our through-the-cycle 
target of 6.5%. Return on average capital 
employed increased from 18.3% to 20.5%. The 
margin uplift reflects a combination of improving 
conditions in certain markets, most notably the 
US from where Keller derives almost 50% of 
its revenue, further success in our drive for 
improvements in all aspects of the business 
and some good final project settlements. 
Cash generated from operations
2
 was £142.3m, 
which represents 92% of EBITDA. The Group 
remains focused on improving working capital 
ratios across the business and ensuring profits 
turn into cash. 
Year-end net debt was £183.0m (2014: £102.2m), 
representing 1.2x EBITDA. This increase reflects 
£52.5m spent on acquisitions during the year and 
a £27.5m cash outflow relating to the exceptional 
contract provision recognised in 2014. In addition, 
net capital expenditure of £69.9m was up on 
last year’s £61.0m and £17.8m in excess of 
depreciation and amortisation. This increase in 
capital expenditure results from the Group’s 
ongoing investment in higher growth markets.
The financial position of the Group remains 
very strong. There is comfortable headroom 
in the Group’s main financing facilities and we 
continue to operate well within all of our 
financial covenants.
Exceptional items
The 2015 result includes an exceptional non-cash 
charge of £31.2m relating to an impairment of 
the goodwill arising on the 2013 acquisition of 
Keller Canada. After taking account of tax and 
exceptional items, the Group’s post-tax result 
for the year was a profit of £26.3m (2014: loss 
of £1.2m).
Dividends
As a result of these improved results, the Board’s 
confidence in the business going forward and its 
commitment to a progressive dividend policy, the 
Board has decided to recommend a final dividend 
of 18.3p per share (2014: 16.8p per share), to be 
paid on 10 June 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at 20 May 2016. Together with the 
interim dividend paid of 8.8p, this brings the total 
dividend per share for the year to 27.1p (2014: 
25.2p), an increase of 7.5% for the year. Dividend 
cover, before exceptional items, for the full year 
was 3.2x (2014: 3.0x). 
Board 
On 26 September 2014, we announced that Justin 
Atkinson had decided to retire as Chief Executive. 
Justin retired on 14 May 2015 and was succeeded 
by Alain Michaelis. 
With a new Chief Executive now in place, 
I have decided that 2016 is the right time for 
me to retire as Chairman of the Board of 
Keller Group plc. 
I was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive 
Director in July 2007 and appointed Chairman of 
the Board in July 2009. I have led Keller through 
some challenging times since my appointment 
and am pleased to be leaving at a time when the 
Group is positioned for solid growth under a 
new executive leadership team. 
Paul Withers, Senior Independent Director, 
is leading the selection process for the new 
Chairman which is underway and making good 
progress. We will make an announcement on 
my successor in due course.
Employees
Over 10,000 employees have contributed to the 
strong performance of the Group during 2015. 
On behalf of the Directors, I would like to thank 
them for their hard work and efforts. The Board 
believes our people are a key component of our 
success and remains focused on providing 
leadership and oversight to engender the strength 
of the Keller culture, creating an environment in 
which our employees can thrive.
Outlook 
The 2015 results demonstrate the continued 
strength of the Group’s business. I am confident 
that the measures currently being implemented 
to improve operating performance, together with 
the organisational changes made under the new 
management team, will build on this strength.
The Group has performed well in 2015. We have 
been pleased to record another year of profit 
growth despite sales being lower as a result of 
less revenue from large projects. At the end of 
January, the Group order book of work to be 
undertaken over the next 12 months, including 
that of acquisitions, was 15% higher than at the 
same time last year, with increases in all Divisions. 
Whilst conditions in our markets are varied, the 
ongoing strength in the US, our largest market, 
continuing improvements in underlying operating 
performance, and our strong order book mean 
that the Group is set for another year of progress 
in 2016.
Roy A Franklin
Chairman
1
 Before pre-tax exceptional items of £39.4m (2014: £56.9m). 
£31.2m of this relates to a partial impairment of the Keller 
Canada goodwill balance. The balance relates primarily to 
the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
2
  Before £27.5m cash outflow in 2015 relating to the 2014 
exceptional contract provision.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  To find out more please  
visit our website: www.keller.co.uk Chief Executive  
Officer’s review
Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive Officer
Keller is best placed to 
gain market share both 
organically and through 
further acquisitions.
6
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
As Chief Executive for eight months of 2015,  
I’m pleased to report a year of good progress for 
Keller. I also wish to thank my predecessor, Justin 
Atkinson, for his leadership in shaping much of  
the results we are able to report.
Financial performance in the year has been good, 
but I have been similarly encouraged by progress 
in other areas reflecting the improving health of 
the Company on a number of fronts. 
We executed an impressive array of projects 
around the world for our customers and can 
point to improving customer focus and 
operational discipline.
We have continued to evolve the organisation, 
adding some significant talent to the Group and 
strengthening our leadership team.
We have also taken some good strategic steps, 
notably with two important acquisitions, Bencor 
in the US and Austral in Australia. 
With regard to safety we can report mixed news 
– we have continued to improve our safety 
performance around the world and our accident 
frequency rate has been cut by over two-thirds in 
three years, which is excellent. However, this was 
sadly offset by two fatalities in Malaysia due to a 
sinkhole accident in February 2015. 
We remain in an attractive market and have 
many industry-leading advantages. We also have 
a very healthy list of opportunities to enhance the 
success of the Group. We are taking a significant 
step forward in connecting the Company more 
deliberately and instilling a stronger common 
ethos and operating model. I am confident this 
will bring better knowledge sharing and higher 
performance for our customers, employees 
and shareholders.
Our strategy 
Growth
We will continue to grow. We estimate the 
global ground engineering market to be worth 
US$50bn, so our global market share is 5%. Even 
if we consider our addressable market share, this 
figure only rises to 10%. This is a fragmented 
industry which we believe will continue to 
consolidate. As the leading independent player 
and with a strong balance sheet, Keller is best 
placed to gain market share both organically 
and through further acquisitions.
Strong, customer-focused businesses
To ensure we build strong, local relationships and 
stay responsive and competitive in local markets, 
we are organised by business unit. These are fully 
capable Profit and Loss units with distinct market 
strategies and full operational capabilities. Clearly 
the health of the Group as a whole relies on these 
business units continuing to evolve and strengthen. 
We ensure this through a robust management 
framework, functional expertise and Group-wide 
benchmarking. Typical revenue for a business unit 
is £40m to £100m and we currently have 22 
around the world. 
Leveraging scale and expertise
We also aim to be stronger than the sum of the 
individual business units by sensibly leveraging the 
scale of our Group. Keller’s brand and reputation is 
strong across the globe and customers are attracted 
to the depth of knowledge, professionalism and 
financial security we offer. Internally, where we 
find ‘economies of scale’ or ‘economies of skill’, 
we leverage the opportunity across multiple 
business units. Good examples are shared back 
office functions or a common legal team across 
a Division. We also believe we have good 
opportunities to purchase direct and indirect 
material across multiple business units. 
Engineering and Operations
Engineering and Operations are the core of Keller. 
We are very active in design of solutions with 
our customers (for 45% of our revenue) where 
we are able to reduce content and cost of the 
project. This is a clear differentiator and we aim 
to nurture this capability.
In areas of construct only, operational efficiency  
is key and we have a number of business units 
who perform at excellent levels. Good market 
share is important so that efficiencies, and 
therefore higher margins, can be maintained.  
We can share information and improve 
productivity further. Lean techniques from 
other industries are applicable to Keller given 
the repetitive nature of much of our operations. 
We have set up formal Global Product Teams in 
2015 to better share and leverage knowledge on 
specific products, e.g. Grouting or Bored Piling. 
We are confident that these will be a strong 
driver of improvement. 
We continue to invest in new facilities and 
equipment. In Renchen, where Keller in Germany 
started 155 years ago, we have added a new 
manufacturing hall to enable us to raise output 
and build the vibro and grouting machines of the 
future. We also made significant capital investments 
well above depreciation rates in 2015.
 
People
I would like to echo the Chairman’s thanks to  
the people of Keller. I have been very impressed 
by the level of loyalty and expertise around the 
Group. Although all companies will say people 
are their foundation, this is doubly important 
to Keller given the high level of specific ground 
engineering expertise required, coupled with 
a very fragmented geographic and project 
structure. We rely on our project teams to 
perform far from their base. Therefore skills  
and training, supported by practical procedures 
and technological support, are vital and we will 
continue to invest in this domain. 
We also made changes at the Executive 
Committee level in 2015. We hired three new 
executives: Thorsten Holl – President EMEA, 
Serge Zimmerlin – Human Resources Director 
and Joe Hubback – Strategy Director. This is a 
significant influx of talent to the Group. We also 
announced that Venu Raju would succeed 
Wolfgang Sondermann, who is retiring after a 
distinguished Keller career, as Engineering and 
Operations Director in the fourth quarter of 2016.
We combined two Divisions to form Asia Pacific 
(APAC) under the leadership of Mark Kliner. 
This has a number of natural advantages – scale 
effects, sharing relative strengths on products, 
reducing costs and an increased ability to grow 
in Asia. The integration is progressing well.
Keller is well placed, and I am confident this 
strategy will fulfil our goal of being the best 
geotechnical solutions company in the world.
Operating review
Conditions in our major markets
In the US, expenditure on construction increased 
significantly for the fourth consecutive year, with 
good growth in most segments of the market. 
Private non-residential construction grew by 12%, 
whilst in the residential market housing starts 
were up 11% year on year, with strong growth 
in both single-family and multi-family homes. 
Growth in public expenditure on construction 
continued, up 6% on 2014. 
In Canada, construction activity in the resources 
markets remains very subdued although demand 
in the commercial and infrastructure segments 
fared somewhat better. 
Conditions in our European markets as a whole 
remain mixed, with Southern Europe, in 
particular, remaining challenging. There are some 
positive signs in the central European markets of 
Germany, Poland and Austria, as well as in the UK. 
Elsewhere, there are good opportunities in the 
Middle East where our construction markets have 
been relatively unaffected by the low oil price. 
The construction market in South Africa is 
slowing and whilst there are some exciting 
opportunities elsewhere in Africa, a number are 
in the oil and gas sector and their timing is 
therefore uncertain. Globally, Keller’s direct 
exposure to oil and gas projects was 6% of 
revenue in 2015.
 
Construction expenditure in the Group’s Asian 
markets remains varied. In India we are continuing 
to see signs of increasing business confidence, but 
the Singapore and Malaysian markets are 
relatively quiet. 
In Australia, construction expenditure across 
most segments has been subdued for some  
time and is showing few signs of improving.  
An exception is the near-shore marine segment 
where there remain a number of projects to 
upgrade or expand ports and harbours.
Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive Officer
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Our markets
Local
Competition
Local competition is highly fragmented 
comprising many small businesses, often 
family-owned, with limited equipment 
capacity and few (or single) product lines.
Types of project
Standard foundations for small to medium 
structures, where ground conditions are 
relatively straightforward.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
Our structure enables us to compete 
with local players for small to medium-
sized contracts.
Our scale allows us to compete with local 
players by giving us access to more productive 
equipment and techniques.
National
Competition
In Europe, competition is often owned by 
general contractors. In the US and Australia, 
these services are usually outsourced. 
Independent national competitors tend  
to be privately owned.
Types of project
As for Local, together with foundations for 
larger structures and more complex solutions 
for challenging ground conditions.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
We have a wide network of subsidiary 
companies and branch offices employing  
local people with knowledge of:
 – national building codes;
 – local language and business culture;
 – local ground conditions.
Our experience and reliability also 
differentiates us from national competitors.
Global
Competition
Only very few competitors can claim to  
have a truly global capability, strong financial 
credentials and the ability to offer a full 
product range.
Types of project
Large-scale projects, requiring capacity  
or expertise which may not be available 
in-country. Often direct foreign investment, 
where funders or clients prefer to contract 
with international partners.
Keller’s advantage in this segment
As the largest independent operator with  
a global presence, we can:
 – follow known customers into new  
geographic markets;
 – pool our global resources and expertise;
 – meet the stringent quality, safety and ethical 
standards of our blue-chip customers.
  To find out more please  
visit our website: www.keller.co.uk 9
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Algeria
Australia
Austria
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Denmark
Egypt
Finland
France
Germany
Ghana
India
Indonesia
Italy
Ivory Coast
Kazakhstan
Lesotho
Malaysia
Mexico
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Netherlands
Oman
Panama
Peru
Poland
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Slovakia
South Africa
Spain
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
United Kingdom
United States
Where we operate From our centres of excellence in more than  
40 countries around the world, we deliver 
combinations of industry-leading expertise to  
the most challenging projects and locations. 
The best of being local
 – our wide network of regional offices  
allows Keller to be responsive and 
competitive in local markets
 – this, in turn, means that our revenue is 
spread over some 6,000 contracts with  
an average value of around £250,000
 – our local people have knowledge of local 
ground conditions
 – we can respond to the changing  
dynamics of our business in a timely  
and informed way
 – an entrepreneurial culture allows us 
to compete in an industry dominated 
by entrepreneurs 
The best of being global
 – we can join forces across company  
and country borders to tackle big 
opportunities and challenging jobs
 – we share technologies and equipment
 – we exchange best practice and  
information across the Group creating 
economies of scale
 – we have common operating rules,  
including our safety programme and  
Code of Conduct, which means that 
customers see a consistent Keller 
approach, wherever in the world  
we operate
 – our brand recognition is unrivalled by  
local/regional players
 – our financial strength is unrivalled
Market drivers
Throughout the world, we expect the growth 
in specialist ground engineering to exceed the 
growth in general construction, driven over 
the medium-to-long term by those trends set 
out below:
 – urbanisation and more large-scale 
development projects;
 – increasing land shortage, driving a need to 
use more brownfield and marginal land;
 – infrastructure renewal and expansion, 
e.g. road, rail, power;
 – increasing demand from customers 
for complete solutions rather than 
just products; and
 – increasing technical complexity. 
PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGY
  For a precise understanding of how we  
see the markets in which we operate:  
www.keller.co.uk Our vision
To be the world leader in 
geotechnical solutions.
Our business model is 
evolving to realise our vision 
and drive our new strategy.
Understanding the value chain
In providing geotechnical solutions, Keller 
operates in the initial stages of the construction 
value chain. Whilst the value chain and 
construction process varies significantly from 
project to project, Keller is typically the first 
contractor on-site and the first off-site. Ensuring 
our work is done efficiently is critical for our 
customers in saving them money and providing 
a sound platform for the remaining work on a 
project. Our projects are often for a short 
duration and the majority have an average value 
of £250,000. We work across the construction 
spectrum. Very often we will joint venture with 
a main contractor on a bid.
Depending on the nature of a project, Keller 
may provide insights into design and other phases 
of the construction process but generally value 
is created and captured principally from our 
groundwork activities. Our products and services 
are not just about foundations for construction 
but are most commonly geotechnical solutions 
to complex construction projects from solving 
for terrain and water pressure in constructing 
a dam to the foundations for a major stadium.
We are unique given our market-leading positions 
derived from combinations of technology, scale 
and customer relationship leadership. 
Keller was the first company to develop methods 
and equipment for the successful deep compaction 
of soil in the 1930s and has continued to develop 
the equipment and widened its application. 
Common soil stabilisation techniques include a 
combination of vibro-compaction with stone, 
concrete or lime columns as well as soil mixing  
and injection systems. These techniques have 
been used by Keller to improve many thousands  
of sites around the world.
Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a process 
involving the generation and management of 
digital representations of physical and functional 
characteristics of places. Current BIM software 
is used to plan, design, construct, operate and 
maintain diverse physical infrastructures.
Our capabilities to monitor solutions and 
our own equipment operations are providing us 
with a competitive edge as BIM expands in the 
construction market.
Key inputs 
Our people
 – High-quality engineers and operators  
capable of delivering world-class solutions
 – Strong local relationships with real trust from 
our customers giving us insight into market 
developments and allowing us to drive for 
high-value solutions
 – Highly experienced (low staff turnover) means 
we are more reliable than the competition
 – Specialists, flexible to go to the toughest 
problems, ensure the customer gets the 
best of Keller
Our technology
 – Broad coverage for all geotechnical solutions 
giving us resilience to market changes and 
supporting us to lead on innovation
 – Keller unique solutions giving improved 
customer results and Keller profitability 
(see below)
 – Building Information Modelling (BIM) 
capabilities to support digitisation of 
ground engineering (see below)
Our market focus
 – Targeting markets that value geotechnical 
solutions
 – Selective investment in profitable segments
Our financial strength
 – Strong balance sheet
10
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Our business model Extensive  
products and  
services
Cost-effective 
approaches
Engineering  
leadership
World-class 
geotechnical 
solutions
Operational 
excellence
How we create and 
capture value 
Knowledge and  
capability sharing to  
build best solutions
Our business model is underpinned  
by safety and sustainability
Global
Local
Who benefits from that  
value creation 
Customers
 – Local knowledge with global scale and resource
 – Provision of complex geotechnical solutions
Shareholders
 – Dividends
 – Capital growth
People
 – Employment
 – Qualifications
 – Global and local opportunities
Communities
 – Employment
 – Construction of facilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGY
1 1
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Element Description Explanation KPIs
01
Growing
Growing our product range and 
entering new markets, organically 
and by acquisition
We have a set of target product segments based 
on growth, profit and strategic considerations.
We also have a set of target geographies to 
either consolidate market position or open up 
new markets. 
We maintain a short-list of potential acquisitions 
to help us access target markets, where required.
The acquisition of Bencor broadened our 
product offering to include diaphragm 
wall technology.
The acquisition of Austral in Western Australia, 
coupled with our existing operation Waterway 
in Eastern Australia, consolidated our market 
position in Australia in marine piling.
Measure
Revenue growth year on year: 
year on year sales growth, 
including acquisitions 
Return on capital employed: 
operating profit before 
exceptional items as a net 
return on capital employed 
Operating margins: 
operating profit before 
exceptional items expressed as 
a percentage of revenue 
Accident frequency rate:  
accident frequency per 100,000 
hours; lost time injuries are 
calculated as any incident 
over one day 
Staff turnover rate:  
managerial, professional and 
technical staff leaving in the 
period, other than through 
redundancy or normal 
retirement, expressed as a 
percentage of staff in  
this category
Performance  
in 2015
-2.3% 
20.5% 
6.6%
0.35
5.6%
02
Building
Building strong, customer-focused 
local businesses 
Ground engineering is a local business that 
demands local expertise and relationships. 
We will continue to focus on and satisfy the 
needs of our customers at local level.
Our businesses evaluate the quality of their 
customer feedback (amongst other things).
Our businesses offer two routes to value 
creation: high operational efficiency and 
utilisation and/or strong technical differentiation.
Business units in over 40 countries provide local 
knowledge of both markets and ground 
conditions.
Business units with robust divisional and Group 
controls framework.
We have established a Business Development 
function focused on capturing our customer 
requirements and understanding our 
competitors.
03
Leveraging
Leveraging the scale and expertise 
of the Group
Keller has globally leading expertise and a 
corporate structure that allows us to bring the 
best of Keller to every customer engagement. 
We will be investing in the tools and processes 
to make this more effective and efficient.
Synergies in operating model will be selectively 
implemented so that we don’t lose local 
responsiveness.
Keller’s scale provides security for customers 
and employees through resilience to risk.
In the last year, we undertook a strategic review 
of the Group that resulted in the following 
changes:
 – Merger of our Asia and Australia Divisions 
(APAC) leading to greater capability and 
productivity in this Division.
 – Business units are now supported by Group 
functions, e.g. Engineering & Operations, 
Quality, Procurement and Legal, to offer our 
greater support and provide more oversight 
of our operations from the centre.
04
Enhancing
Enhancing our engineering and 
operational capabilities
We are investing in connecting our global 
network of engineers and project managers  
to share best practices on project execution, 
equipment management and maintenance  
and technology innovation.
Our global supply chain is optimised to balance 
equipment utilisation with efficient transport.
We aim to be a leader and investor in 
new technologies.
Engineering & Operations function established, 
charged with building Group capability and 
expertise, to deliver superior solutions and 
productivity.
Global Product Teams developing minimum 
operating standards for the Group and 
sharing best practice.
We continue to invest above depreciation rates 
in our equipment fleet.
05
Investing
Investing in our people
We are investing in developing the talent of  
our employees to help deliver world-class 
solutions to our customers as well as creating 
opportunities for all to maximise their potential.
We continue to strive for leadership in HSEQ.
Executive Committee reinforced.
Talent development programme rolled out to 
our senior management population.
Global Leadership Team identified and 
programme of communications is in train.
Continued strong emphasis on safety 
improvement.
Our strategy
Keller’s goal is to be the world 
leader in geotechnical solutions.
In 2015, we continued to make 
progress in delivering against our 
strategy. There are five elements: 13
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Element Description Explanation KPIs
01
Growing
Growing our product range and 
entering new markets, organically 
and by acquisition
We have a set of target product segments based 
on growth, profit and strategic considerations.
We also have a set of target geographies to 
either consolidate market position or open up 
new markets. 
We maintain a short-list of potential acquisitions 
to help us access target markets, where required.
The acquisition of Bencor broadened our 
product offering to include diaphragm 
wall technology.
The acquisition of Austral in Western Australia, 
coupled with our existing operation Waterway 
in Eastern Australia, consolidated our market 
position in Australia in marine piling.
Measure
Revenue growth year on year: 
year on year sales growth, 
including acquisitions 
Return on capital employed: 
operating profit before 
exceptional items as a net 
return on capital employed 
Operating margins: 
operating profit before 
exceptional items expressed as 
a percentage of revenue 
Accident frequency rate:  
accident frequency per 100,000 
hours; lost time injuries are 
calculated as any incident 
over one day 
Staff turnover rate:  
managerial, professional and 
technical staff leaving in the 
period, other than through 
redundancy or normal 
retirement, expressed as a 
percentage of staff in  
this category
Performance  
in 2015
-2.3% 
20.5% 
6.6%
0.35
5.6%
02
Building
Building strong, customer-focused 
local businesses 
Ground engineering is a local business that 
demands local expertise and relationships. 
We will continue to focus on and satisfy the 
needs of our customers at local level.
Our businesses evaluate the quality of their 
customer feedback (amongst other things).
Our businesses offer two routes to value 
creation: high operational efficiency and 
utilisation and/or strong technical differentiation.
Business units in over 40 countries provide local 
knowledge of both markets and ground 
conditions.
Business units with robust divisional and Group 
controls framework.
We have established a Business Development 
function focused on capturing our customer 
requirements and understanding our 
competitors.
03
Leveraging
Leveraging the scale and expertise 
of the Group
Keller has globally leading expertise and a 
corporate structure that allows us to bring the 
best of Keller to every customer engagement. 
We will be investing in the tools and processes 
to make this more effective and efficient.
Synergies in operating model will be selectively 
implemented so that we don’t lose local 
responsiveness.
Keller’s scale provides security for customers 
and employees through resilience to risk.
In the last year, we undertook a strategic review 
of the Group that resulted in the following 
changes:
 – Merger of our Asia and Australia Divisions 
(APAC) leading to greater capability and 
productivity in this Division.
 – Business units are now supported by Group 
functions, e.g. Engineering & Operations, 
Quality, Procurement and Legal, to offer our 
greater support and provide more oversight 
of our operations from the centre.
04
Enhancing
Enhancing our engineering and 
operational capabilities
We are investing in connecting our global 
network of engineers and project managers  
to share best practices on project execution, 
equipment management and maintenance  
and technology innovation.
Our global supply chain is optimised to balance 
equipment utilisation with efficient transport.
We aim to be a leader and investor in 
new technologies.
Engineering & Operations function established, 
charged with building Group capability and 
expertise, to deliver superior solutions and 
productivity.
Global Product Teams developing minimum 
operating standards for the Group and 
sharing best practice.
We continue to invest above depreciation rates 
in our equipment fleet.
05
Investing
Investing in our people
We are investing in developing the talent of  
our employees to help deliver world-class 
solutions to our customers as well as creating 
opportunities for all to maximise their potential.
We continue to strive for leadership in HSEQ.
Executive Committee reinforced.
Talent development programme rolled out to 
our senior management population.
Global Leadership Team identified and 
programme of communications is in train.
Continued strong emphasis on safety 
improvement.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategy in action
Products used
 
 
 
Piling and earth retention
 
Keller company
Bencor 
Technologies used
Diaphragm walling
Size of contract
US$135m
Customer
US Army Corps of Engineers
During 2015, Keller made two strategic 
acquisitions, one of which was Bencor in 
North America. 
Bencor is based in Dallas and operates 
throughout the USA and Canada, specialising  
in diaphragm wall technology, a market  
segment in which Keller was relatively weak. 
The acquisition, for US$40m, brought 150 
employees and hydro-mills and associated 
equipment into the Group.
The acquisition of Bencor supports Keller’s 
strategy of growing its product range, thereby 
being able to offer customers the full spectrum 
of geotechnical solutions. The acquisition 
provides Keller with a modern fleet of 
equipment and more importantly the skills, 
knowledge and experience to immediately be  
a significant player in North America. Being part 
of the Group, Bencor can now maximise the 
opportunity of growing outside of its domestic 
market and to expand globally.
Bencor has been appointed by the US Army 
Corps of Engineers as the Principal Contractor 
to carry out repair and upgrade works to this 
large earth fill dam.
Our works include 715m of cut-off wall up 
to 80m in depth that will be installed using 
hydromills. As this is a turnkey type project, 
Keller is also responsible for the working 
platform on the top of the dam, new reinforced 
concrete weir structures and other associated 
geotechnical engineering including exploratory 
and verification drilling, foundation drilling and 
grouting, and the installation of inclined drains.
14
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 East Branch Dam, 
Pennsylvania, USA
OVERVIEW STRATEGY
15
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategy in action
Products used
 
 
 
Piling and earth retention
 
Keller company
Austral Construction Pty, Limited 
Technologies used
Marine piling
Size of contract
A$80m
Customer
Rio Tinto
The second significant acquisition in 2015 was 
Austral Construction Pty, Limited (‘Austral’). 
Operated from Melbourne, Victoria, the 
business has a particular emphasis on marine 
piling work and has a significant customer base 
in Western Australia, an area of potential 
geographical growth for Keller. 
Acquired for an initial consideration of A$42m, 
Austral brings 115 employees and material land 
and marine-based equipment to Keller.
The combination with Keller’s existing marine 
business in Australia, Waterway Construction, 
gives a truly national footprint and enhances 
the Group’s ability to compete for large 
complex projects.
Both businesses carry out turnkey projects 
undertaking other enabling works, in addition to 
pure geotechnical solutions. Austral Construction’s 
unique market position (contractor and 
sub-contractor) together with Keller Australia’s 
business mix, will significantly enhance the 
Australian profile in both new and existing 
markets and act as a real differentiator in an 
increasingly competitive and mature 
market place.
Austral Construction was engaged by Rio Tinto 
to complete refurbishment works of their 
operating EII iron ore production wharf and 
access jetty. 
The works comprised the design, fabrication, 
supply and installation of the new dolphin 
structures including marine piling, structural steel 
installation, structural welding, grouting works, 
major electrical and mechanical installations and 
corrosion protection. The redundant dolphins 
also had to be demolished involving sub-sea pile 
cutting and off-site disposal.
The jetty itself required the fabrication, supply 
and installation of composite steel and pre-cast 
concrete deck modules to replace the redundant 
timber decking. This included concrete and 
grouting works, corrosion protection, 
deconstruction works and service installations. 
These works have extended the life expectancy 
of the wharf by at least 50 years and have 
resulted in major safety improvements for the 
operation of the out-loading facility. 
16
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Dampier,  
Western Australia 
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategy in action
Port of Safi,  
Morocco
18
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Port of Safi,  
Morocco
Products used
 
 
 
Ground improvement
 
Keller company
Keller Fondations Spéciales SAS
Technologies used
Vibro-compaction
Size of contract
€7.5m
Customer
Ministry of Equipment, Transport and Logistics, 
Kingdom of Morocco
Keller is able to leverage its scale to deliver 
major infrastructure projects around the globe. 
Expertise exists across the Keller Group and by 
connecting this knowledge, the best geotechnical 
solution can be found for the customer. This 
engineering and operational capability has been 
brought to bear to deliver an offshore ground 
improvement project in North Africa.
In 2014, Keller began installing off-shore stone 
columns to depths of up to 38m to provide 
foundation support in a seismic region for the 
new Port of Safi, Morocco. The project is due 
for completion in 2017.
Using experts from its offices in France, 
Germany, Spain and Morocco, Keller has 
developed a scheme to treat the loose sands and 
compressible sediments on the seabed, so that 
the breakwater may be constructed without 
excessive settlement and to eliminate the risk  
of slope failure in the event of an earthquake.
Specialist equipment built in Keller’s manufacturing 
facility in Rechen, Germany is being worked 
over three shifts, seven days a week. 
Obviously, there are specific risks when working 
off-shore, especially in winter when waves can 
exceed heights of 10m. Working patterns are 
therefore carefully planned around the daily 
weather forecasts and special contingency 
measures have been designed in the event that 
the weather turns unexpectedly. 
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategy in action
STAR Refinery, 
Alia˘ ga, T urkey
20
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Products used
 
 
 
Anchors, nails and minipiles
 
Keller company
Keller Grundbau Ges.mbH
Technologies used
Ground anchors 
Size of contract
€7.2m 
Customer
Yenigün Insaat, Ankara
Whilst Keller has global strength, it is also a 
local, customer-focused business. By working 
with our clients and forming partnerships with 
the other project stakeholders we are able to 
develop winning solutions.
We are currently working on a large slope 
stabilisation project in Turkey where by working 
with the Principal Contractor we have been able 
to set up a production hall to manufacture the 
anchors directly on the site. Similarly, we have 
developed a precast concrete anchor head, 
which again is made at the project location. 
The Aegean Refinery Project (ARP) is one of 
the biggest infrastructure projects in Turkey. 
Permanent anchors, with up to 14 strands and 
lengths of 50m are being used to ensure that 
the soil slopes are stable and can withstand 
earthquakes, with anchor forces of up to 3,000 kN.
All the anchors are manufactured directly  
on-site in a specially built anchor hall, allowing  
for a fast response to any changes on-site as the 
project progresses. Anchor heads are precast 
concrete plinths, developed by Keller especially 
for this project. They are produced in a field 
factory on-site in order to meet the required 
quality criteria.
A new technique for anchor tensioning is also 
being used, which enables the testing and 
tensioning of ‘multiple anchors’ with only one 
tensioning jack. Using this new stressing technique, 
the time involved in the testing and commissioning 
has been dramatically decreased. 
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategy in action
Products used
 
 
 
Specialty grouting
 
Keller company
Keller Limited 
Technologies used
Compensation grouting 
Size of contract
£40m 
Customer
BFK Joint Venture 
Keller is the largest geotechnical contractor 
in the world, with a strong balance sheet. This 
makes it possible to be involved in some of the 
largest contracts. As one would expect, the 
Company was heavily involved in the Crossrail 
Project, working on many different sites for 
different construction teams. In all, Keller 
secured over £80m of geotechnical work on 
this one project alone.
Crossrail is currently the largest construction 
project in Europe. Involving the boring of 42km 
of twin underground railway tunnel and the 
building of 10 new stations, the line commences 
in Maidenhead and runs beneath London from 
Paddington to Essex and Kent in the East.
Due to the size of the tunnels and the large 
excavations that were required for the stations, 
something had to be done to avoid damaging 
several important and historic buildings along 
the route.
Compensation grouting was pioneered by Keller, 
initially in Germany, and has now been used on 
underground projects on five continents.
Drilling from deep shafts, only 4.5m in diameter, 
Keller drilled and installed over 45km of grouting 
pipes under the critical buildings in the heart of 
the West End of London. Keller subsequently 
used these pipes to pump, under high pressure, 
grout into the ground, to lift the ground after the 
tunnelling machines had passed, compensating 
for any settlement. By using sophisticated 
instrumentation and monitoring it was possible 
to control movements at the ground surface  
to within 1mm, protecting London’s assets  
and heritage.
22
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Crossrail,  
London, UK
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategy in action
Wrigley Field, 
Chicago, USA
24
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Products used
 
  
 
Piling and earth  Instrumentation  
retention and monitoring
 
Keller companies
Hayward Baker, Case Foundations and Getec UK
Technologies used
Jet grouting, micropiles, secant piles, sheet 
piling, ground anchors, bracing, caissons, 
real-time structure monitoring
Size of contract
US$23m
Customer
Pepper Construction Company
Through sharing best practice and innovation 
across the Group, Keller is able to introduce 
new products or solutions organically into new 
markets. As an example, dry soil mixing, which 
was traditionally performed by our Scandinavian 
business, has been successfully used in Poland, 
the UK, the USA, Malaysia and Australia, by 
transferring the technology in-house.
This sharing of new ideas is essential to maintain 
a competitive edge, but it also provides fantastic 
opportunities for our people to travel to new 
regions and develop their skills. One such 
transfer of technology is in instrumentation 
and monitoring.
Keller companies have utilised a wide range of 
geotechnical solutions for the redevelopment of 
Wrigley Field, the iconic, 100-year-old baseball 
park in Chicago.
Micropiles have been used to underpin existing 
columns to allow for increased loading and jet 
grouting was utilised for both underpinning and as 
earth retention to develop a cut and cover tunnel 
extending beneath the concourse. Keller has also 
installed sheet piles that have been used with 
internal bracing and anchors, and to add to the 
‘toolkit’ large diameter under-reamed or belled 
piles have been installed to the underlying rock.
It was evident from the tender stage that these 
works could lead to movement of the structure 
during the construction period and it was 
therefore agreed to bring monitoring technology 
from Getec UK to measure for settlement and 
rotation, using inclinometers, water level cells and 
tilt meters. The instruments were programmed 
to send movement data at 15-minute intervals 
and coupled with innovative visualisation 
software this would have alerted the site team 
had there been any unexpected movement.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 26
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
01
Market risk 
A rapid downturn in  
our markets
Inability to maintain a sustainable level of financial 
performance throughout the construction industry 
market cycle which grows more than many other 
industries during periods of economic expansion and 
falls harder than many other industries when the 
economy contracts.
Failure to continue in operation or to meet 
our liabilities.
Diversification of our markets, both in terms of geography and market segment.
Strong balance sheet.
Leveraging the global scale of our Group.
Having strong local businesses to address geographic markets.
02
Strategic risks 
Failure to procure  
new contracts
A failure to continue to win and retain contracts on 
satisfactory terms and conditions in our existing and 
new target markets if competition increases, customer 
requirements change or demand reduces due to 
general adverse economic conditions.
Failure to achieve targets for revenue, 
profit and earnings.
Continually analysing our existing and target markets to ensure we understand the opportunities that 
they offer.
Structured bid review processes in operation throughout the Group with well-defined selectivity criteria that 
are designed to ensure we take on contracts only where we understand and can manage the risks involved.
Losing our market share Inability to achieve sustainable growth, whether through 
acquisition, new products, new geographies or industry 
specific solutions. 
Failure to achieve targets for revenue, 
profits and earnings.
Continually seeking to differentiate our offering through service quality, value for money and innovation. 
A Business Development function focusing on our customers’ requirements and understanding our competitors.
Minimising the risk of acquisitions, including getting to know a target company in advance, often working in joint 
venture, to understand the operational and cultural differences and potential synergies, as well as undertaking 
these through thorough due diligence and structured and carefully managed integration plans.
Implementing annual efficiency and improvement programmes to help us remain competitive.
Non-compliance with our  
Code of Business Conduct 
Not maintaining high standards of ethics and compliance 
in conducting our business or failing to meet legal or 
regulatory requirements.
Losing the trust of our customers, suppliers 
and other stakeholders with consequent 
adverse effects on our ability to deliver 
against our strategy and business objectives.
Substantial damage to Keller’s brand and/or 
large financial penalties.
Having clear policies and procedures in respect of ethics, integrity, regulatory requirements and contract 
management.
Maintaining training programmes to ensure our people fully understand these policies and requirements.
Operating and encouraging the use of a ‘whistleblowing’ facility.
03
Financial risk 
Inability to finance our business Losing access to the financing facilities necessary to fund 
the business.
Breach of banking covenants or failure to 
continue in business or meet our liabilities.
Procedures to monitor the effective management of cash and debt, including weekly cash reports and regular 
cash forecasting.
04
Operational risks 
Product and/or solution failure Failure of our product and/or solution to achieve the 
required standard.
Financial loss and consequent damage to 
our brand reputation.
Continuing to enhance our technological and operational capabilities through investment in our product teams, 
project managers and our engineering capabilities.
Ineffective management of 
our contracts
Failure to manage our contracts to ensure that they are 
delivered on time and to budget. 
Failure to achieve the margins, profits and 
cash flows we expect from contracts.
Ensuring we understand all of our risks through the bid appraisal process and applying rigorous policies and 
processes to manage and monitor contract performance.
Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects.
Causing a serious injury or 
fatality to an employee or 
member of the public
Failure to maintain high standards of Safety and Quality. Damage to employee morale leading to 
an increase in employee turnover rates, 
loss of customer, supplier and partner 
confidence and damage to our brand 
reputation in an area that we regard as 
a top priority.
A Board-led commitment to achieve zero accidents.
Visible management commitment with Safety Tours, Safety Audits and Safety Action Groups. 
Implementing management systems that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001.
Extensive mandatory employee training programmes. 
Not having the right skills 
to deliver 
Inability to attract and develop excellent people to create 
a high-quality, vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce.
Failure to maintain satisfactory 
performance in respect of our current 
contracts and failure to deliver our 
strategy and business targets for growth.
Continuing to develop and implement leadership, personal development and employee engagement 
programmes that encourage and support all our people to achieve their full potential.
Risks can materialise and impact on 
both the achievement of business 
strategy and the successful running of 
our business. A key element in achieving 
our strategy and maintaining services to 
customers is the management of these 
risks. Our risk management strategy is 
therefore to support the successful 
running of the business by identifying 
and managing risks to an acceptable 
level and delivering assurances on this.
Movement in risk
 Increased
 No change
 Reduced 27
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
01
Market risk 
A rapid downturn in  
our markets
Inability to maintain a sustainable level of financial 
performance throughout the construction industry 
market cycle which grows more than many other 
industries during periods of economic expansion and 
falls harder than many other industries when the 
economy contracts.
Failure to continue in operation or to meet 
our liabilities.
Diversification of our markets, both in terms of geography and market segment.
Strong balance sheet.
Leveraging the global scale of our Group.
Having strong local businesses to address geographic markets.
02
Strategic risks 
Failure to procure  
new contracts
A failure to continue to win and retain contracts on 
satisfactory terms and conditions in our existing and 
new target markets if competition increases, customer 
requirements change or demand reduces due to 
general adverse economic conditions.
Failure to achieve targets for revenue, 
profit and earnings.
Continually analysing our existing and target markets to ensure we understand the opportunities that 
they offer.
Structured bid review processes in operation throughout the Group with well-defined selectivity criteria that 
are designed to ensure we take on contracts only where we understand and can manage the risks involved.
Losing our market share Inability to achieve sustainable growth, whether through 
acquisition, new products, new geographies or industry 
specific solutions. 
Failure to achieve targets for revenue, 
profits and earnings.
Continually seeking to differentiate our offering through service quality, value for money and innovation. 
A Business Development function focusing on our customers’ requirements and understanding our competitors.
Minimising the risk of acquisitions, including getting to know a target company in advance, often working in joint 
venture, to understand the operational and cultural differences and potential synergies, as well as undertaking 
these through thorough due diligence and structured and carefully managed integration plans.
Implementing annual efficiency and improvement programmes to help us remain competitive.
Non-compliance with our  
Code of Business Conduct 
Not maintaining high standards of ethics and compliance 
in conducting our business or failing to meet legal or 
regulatory requirements.
Losing the trust of our customers, suppliers 
and other stakeholders with consequent 
adverse effects on our ability to deliver 
against our strategy and business objectives.
Substantial damage to Keller’s brand and/or 
large financial penalties.
Having clear policies and procedures in respect of ethics, integrity, regulatory requirements and contract 
management.
Maintaining training programmes to ensure our people fully understand these policies and requirements.
Operating and encouraging the use of a ‘whistleblowing’ facility.
03
Financial risk 
Inability to finance our business Losing access to the financing facilities necessary to fund 
the business.
Breach of banking covenants or failure to 
continue in business or meet our liabilities.
Procedures to monitor the effective management of cash and debt, including weekly cash reports and regular 
cash forecasting.
04
Operational risks 
Product and/or solution failure Failure of our product and/or solution to achieve the 
required standard.
Financial loss and consequent damage to 
our brand reputation.
Continuing to enhance our technological and operational capabilities through investment in our product teams, 
project managers and our engineering capabilities.
Ineffective management of 
our contracts
Failure to manage our contracts to ensure that they are 
delivered on time and to budget. 
Failure to achieve the margins, profits and 
cash flows we expect from contracts.
Ensuring we understand all of our risks through the bid appraisal process and applying rigorous policies and 
processes to manage and monitor contract performance.
Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects.
Causing a serious injury or 
fatality to an employee or 
member of the public
Failure to maintain high standards of Safety and Quality. Damage to employee morale leading to 
an increase in employee turnover rates, 
loss of customer, supplier and partner 
confidence and damage to our brand 
reputation in an area that we regard as 
a top priority.
A Board-led commitment to achieve zero accidents.
Visible management commitment with Safety Tours, Safety Audits and Safety Action Groups. 
Implementing management systems that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001.
Extensive mandatory employee training programmes. 
Not having the right skills 
to deliver 
Inability to attract and develop excellent people to create 
a high-quality, vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce.
Failure to maintain satisfactory 
performance in respect of our current 
contracts and failure to deliver our 
strategy and business targets for growth.
Continuing to develop and implement leadership, personal development and employee engagement 
programmes that encourage and support all our people to achieve their full potential.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Developing the viability statement
In developing the viability statement, it was 
determined that a three-year period should 
be used, consistent with the period of the 
Group’s business planning processes and 
reflecting a reasonable approximation of the 
maximum time taken from procuring a 
project to completion.
Management reviewed the principal risks, and 
considered which of these risks might threaten 
the Group’s viability. It was determined that 
none of the individual risks would in isolation 
compromise the Group’s viability, and so a 
number of different severe but plausible 
principal risk combinations were considered. 
A downside sensitivity analysis, as well as a 
consideration of any mitigating actions available 
to the Group, were applied to the Group’s 
three-year cash flows forecasted as part of the 
business planning process and presented to the 
Board for discussion, further to review by the 
Audit Committee. The Board discussed the 
process undertaken by management, and also 
reviewed the results of stress testing 
performed to provide an illustration of the 
reduction in cash flows that would be required 
to break the Group’s covenants or exhaust all 
available cash, to ensure that they did not 
adversely impact on the Group’s viability.
The Directors’ viability statement is contained 
in the Directors’ report on page 67.
Risk management
The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s 
risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk 
management systems are in place. The Board 
reviews the Group’s principal risks throughout 
the year as part of its normal agenda, adopting 
an integrated approach to risk management by 
regularly discussing our principal risks. In addition, 
once a year the Board formally assesses the 
Group’s principal risks, taking the strength of 
the Group’s control systems and our appetite 
for risk into account.
The Board delegates responsibility for day-to-day 
risk management to the Executive Committee, 
including the identification, evaluation and 
monitoring of key risks facing the Group and the 
implementation of Group-wide risk management 
processes and controls.
The Audit Committee keeps the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management systems under 
review and reports to the Board on the results of 
its review. The occurrence of any material control 
issues, serious accidents or major commercial, 
financial or reputational issues, or the identification 
of new significant risks, are reported to the Board 
and/or Audit Committee as appropriate.
Following changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code in 2014, and changes to our 
strategy and organisation in 2015, we have carried 
out a robust assessment of our principal risks and 
uncertainties. Our revised principal risks are set 
out in the table on pages 26 and 27.
Culture
The Board is aware that the effectiveness of risk 
management is dependent on behaviours. In 2016 
we will launch a refreshed Code of Business 
Conduct to provide a common and consistent 
framework for responsible business practices. It will 
reinforce the standards we expect our people to 
follow in their day-to-day activities, no matter 
where they work in the world, and tell others that 
they can rely on our integrity. It will be supported 
by our Ethics and Compliance programme, 
which aims to ensure compliance with our 
ethical standards.
How we identify risk
Our risk management process has been built to 
identify, evaluate, analyse and mitigate significant 
risks to the achievement of our strategy. Our risk 
identification processes seek to identify risks from 
both a top down strategic perspective and a 
bottom up local operating company perspective.
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
management, the setting of risk appetite and the 
implementation of the risk management policy. 
The Board reviews and challenges the Group’s 
principal risks on an ongoing basis. 
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee ensures adequate 
assurance is obtained over the risks that are 
identified as the Group’s principal risks. The 
Audit Committee is also responsible for the 
independent review and challenge of the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk 
management approach.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is responsible for 
the identification, reporting and ongoing 
management of risks and for the stewardship 
of the risk management approach. The Executive 
Committee reviews and assesses the key 
strategic risks to the Group and the outputs 
of the assessment are sent to the Divisional 
Presidents for inclusion in their local risk 
assessment exercises. 
Divisional Presidents
Divisional Presidents are responsible for the 
identification, reporting and ongoing management 
of risks in their respective regions. The outputs of 
these assessment exercises are reviewed and 
challenged by the Executive Committee as part 
of their assessment of the key strategic risks 
facing the Group.
Our risk appetite
We use an assessment of the level of risk and our 
associated risk appetite to ensure the appropriate 
focus is placed on the correct risks. 29
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Resources and relationships
Fatalities               Major injuries               Lost time injuries               AFR
Keller Group 2015 AFR by Division per 100,000 hours worked
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Group North America EMEA Australia Asia
Figure 2
There are a number of areas where our 
business impacts on society and where we have 
responsibilities which extend beyond our 
financial performance. The principles we work 
by apply to all of us in any of Keller’s businesses. 
Keeping everyone healthy and safe 
We believe no one should be harmed as a 
result of any work we do – so everyone stays 
safe and well.
Supporting employees’ rights 
and diversity
We value, support and protect the rights and 
dignity of the individual and the diversity of our 
people – so we are all treated with respect.
Maintaining ethical and honest 
behaviour
We are always honest, act with integrity and 
comply with the law – so everyone trusts us.
Staying free from bribery 
and corruption
We always make sure we are free from bribery 
and corruption and win projects fairly – so 
people know our decisions are made for the 
right reasons.
Keeping our communications open 
and responsible
We communicate openly, honestly, clearly and 
responsibly – so we stay transparent.
Delivering excellent customer service 
and work with our suppliers to ensure 
our standards are adhered to
We work to meet our customers’ needs and 
exceed their expectations – so they work with 
us again and again. We ensure we build 
constructive relationships with our suppliers 
and they understand our principles and the 
standards we operate by. 
Working within the community
We act responsibly and respectfully towards 
the communities we work in – because we are 
a part of them.
Protecting our environment
We respect and protect the environment, and 
minimise our impact on it – so we safeguard 
the future.
Standing up for what’s right
We always speak up when we believe our 
principles are being undermined – so we 
uphold our principles together.
The Board’s role is to provide effective leadership, 
establish overall policy for the Group and monitor 
the performance of the operating companies in 
relation to our principles. The Chief Executive is 
ultimately accountable for the Group operating 
in a way that is socially responsible. 
Our line managers are charged with: delivering 
performance safely and with integrity; supporting 
Group policy; and providing leadership within 
their companies. All employees are responsible 
for following Group policy with the support, 
direction and commitment of line management.
Our Code of Business Conduct, introduced in 
2012 and refreshed in 2016, sets out the Group’s 
policies and practices that support our principles. 
Our programme of communications, training and 
assurance is being updated to support the refresh 
and a new externally facilitated whistleblowing 
hotline service for employees, administered by 
Safecall, has been put in place.
Safety 
During the year, two employees lost their lives 
in a sinkhole accident on-site in Malaysia. The 
accident was investigated by the local authorities. 
We have put in place support measures for the 
families of our deceased employees, have 
conducted an internal review of the accident as 
well as seeking out expert opinion on causation. 
Whilst the findings of our internal review suggest 
that the incident could not have been foreseen, 
we have taken all possible steps to communicate 
the circumstances and lessons learnt to our HSE 
experts and colleagues working in similar 
conditions across the Group.
Progress against our 2015 Group-wide objectives, 
which cover a number of high-risk areas within 
the business, are described below:
Reduction in incidents associated with heavy 
plant and equipment
The Group continued its focus in this area and 
saw a continuing decline in the numbers of heavy 
plant and equipment overturning.
2015: 6 recorded incidents (2014: 8)
Reduction in injuries to hands and feet
Implementation of the ‘Carry Glove’ policy 
across the Group saw a continuing reduction in 
the number of hand injuries classified as either 
major or lost time. 
2015: 68 recorded incidents (201 4: 11 2)
Occupational health and wellbeing
Further to a Group-wide review of our 
practices, we adopted minimum standards across 
our businesses.
Implementation of OHSAS 18001 or an 
equivalent standard
Each division continues to work towards 
certification by 2018. The Group’s Head Office 
retained the certification it first gained in 2013.
Reduction of our Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
We achieved a year on year reduction in our AFR.
2015: 0.35 (2014: 0.39)
AFR by year
AFR per 100,000 hours for 2012 to 2015 is set 
out in figure 1 below and includes our acquisitions 
over the period. We have seen significant 
improvements in safety performance on a 
year by year basis. 
Figure 1
77% of our AFR is due to lost time injuries, as 
shown in figure 2 below.
Keller Group AFR by year per 100,000 hours worked
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
2015 2014 2013 2012
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Resources and relationships continued
Group
12-month rolling Major Injury Rate per 100,000 hours worked
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.09
0.10
Dec
2015
Nov
2015
Oct
2015
Sep
2015
Aug
2015
Jul
2015
Jun
2015
May
2015
Apr
2015
Mar
2015
Feb
2015
Jan
2015
Dec
2014
Figure 3
Reported incidents by year per 100,000 hours worked
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Road trac 
accidents
High potential 
near misses
Minor injuries Lost time 
accidents
Major injuries Fatalities
2013               2014               2015
Figure 4
Keller can compare its performance with 
typical mega projects such as Crossrail and the 
2012 Olympic Games, both of which are seen 
as exemplars when compared against the UK 
construction average. Typically, the UK 
construction industry has an AFR of approximately 
0.55/100,000 hours worked, Crossrail compares 
slightly better with 0.54/100,000 hours and the 
2012 Olympic Games at 0.16/100,000 hours. 
Keller compares very favourably when comparing 
the number of days after which an incident 
becomes recordable. Keller uses over one day 
whereas the above projects used the statutory 
definitions of over three days.
Divisional AFR 
Annual AFR over the past three years shows 
significant improvement across the Group 
since 2013.
AFR by year
Division 2015 2014 2013
Asia 0.58 0.64 0.78
Australia 0.26 0.35 0.87
EMEA 0.37 0.42 0.88
North America 0.12 0.20 0.27
Group 0.35 0.39 0.61
Major Injury Rate
One area that has seen a significant improvement 
during 2015 is the rate of major injuries; this is 
demonstrated by figure 3 to the right.
Reporting of incidents
An area of key focus over the past two years has 
been to improve the reporting of minor injuries, 
road traffic accidents and near misses. Reporting 
such incidents is the first step to facilitation of 
improved learning and safety management. 
Figure 4 to the right shows how the reporting 
of all three areas has improved since 2013.
Our people
Keller employs around 10,000 people worldwide, 
most of whom are working in front-line roles 
meeting with, and delivering for, our customers. 
We are only as good as our employees, which is 
why we want to be known as a responsible 
employer which people are proud to join. 
As a Group, we believe in treating all employees 
with fairness, encouragement and respect and  
we do not tolerate any behaviour or attitude that 
discriminates against anyone, coerces, intimidates, 
bullies or harasses others, or threatens them  
with verbal or physical violence. We support 
every individual’s human rights and refuse the  
use of child labour and forced labour under  
any circumstances.
We promote working together to create an 
environment where everyone at Keller has equal 
opportunities to achieve their full potential, 
diversity can flourish, everyone is respected, 
and talent is recognised and developed. No 
employee will be discriminated against due to 
their age, gender, race, religion, national origin, 
sexual preference or gender identity. This is not 
only about ‘being fair’, it also makes sound 
business sense.  31
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
In addition to safety, technical and competency-
based training, management training programmes 
operate at a Group and at a divisional level. 
One of the ways in which we measure how well 
we are doing as an employer is to measure our 
staff turnover, and this key performance indicator 
for each Division is shown in the Operating review.
Diversity
We believe that equal opportunity means hiring 
and retaining the best people, developing all 
employees to their potential and using their 
talents and resources to the full. Diversity of 
people, skills and abilities is a strength which will 
help us to achieve our best. 
At the end of the financial year, the breakdown 
of male/female employees was as follows: 
Male Female
Main Board Directors  
(inc. Non-executive Directors) 6 2
Directors/senior managers 168 11
Managers 1,174 128
All employees
*
8,165 842
*
 Excludes contractors.
Communities
Geotechnical community
Our companies take a leadership role within their 
industry by providing employees, customers, 
suppliers and potential employees with technical 
papers, seminars, field trips and site visits. Staff 
from companies throughout the Group maintain 
close contact with partner universities in order to 
share best practice and provide examples of their 
leading-edge engineering. 
Many of our senior managers play key roles in the 
geotechnical construction industry’s professional 
associations and activities around the world, getting 
involved in writing building codes, specifications, 
guidelines, and industry-wide safety initiatives.
Wider community
In terms of engagement with the wider 
community in which we work, we are generally 
working for a main contractor, who is the party 
responsible for consulting with any community 
affected by the project. Our work comes at the 
outset of a project and we are typically on and off 
the project very quickly; and our job sites are 
often in remote locations, where we have no 
interface with members of the public. There are 
occasions when we are working in built-up areas 
or in proximity to the public, such as the London 
Crossrail and Victoria Station Upgrade projects, 
and on any such projects in particular we strive to 
reduce our noise and dust levels and to conduct 
our work in a considerate manner.
Typically, where we have some community 
engagement, it is by supporting our employees 
when they get involved with community groups 
and local charities. 
Ultimately, we want to be a sustainable business 
which earns the respect of all of our stakeholders 
by taking seriously our wider responsibilities. 
Looking ahead, we aim to bring greater definition to 
our sustainability agenda, as we continue to invest 
in our people, technology, systems and processes 
to enhance both our business performance and 
our reputation as a good corporate citizen. 
Environment
Greenhouse gas reporting
Here we report the quantity of greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions for the year ended 
31 December 2015. We have adopted the 
International Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
In doing so, we have fulfilled our requirements 
concerning GHG emissions under The 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 No.1970.
Reporting boundaries
To the best of our knowledge, we have included 
all material emission sources which fall within the 
boundaries of our consolidated accounts.
All direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions 
are reported in absolute tonnes equivalent CO
2
. 
GHG included are carbon dioxide, methane and 
nitrous oxide emissions from the combustion of fuels 
mentioned below, and carbon dioxide emissions 
from the consumption of purchased electricity:
 – Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions: combustion 
of diesel, petrol, gas, oil and LPG.
 – Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions: purchased 
electricity consumed.
Data gaps and exclusions
Since adopting the International Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard in 2013, we have worked on improving 
the coverage and accuracy of the reporting. 
This is an ongoing exercise and for the second 
year running the number of data gaps has reduced.
Last year 98% of units within the Group reported 
some data. This year all units reported some data 
on their primary emission sources, including 
entities acquired during the year 2015. We have 
accounted for these new acquisitions in our 
calculation of the 2015 footprint. Units also 
report more complete datasets than last year – 
more fuels reported and better coverage for 
the whole year.
Results
Summary Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for the 
Keller Group are shown below for 2014 and 2015.
Global GHG emissions data in tonnes of CO
2
e
2015 2014
Emissions from: 
Scope 1 – Combustion of fuel 
and operation of facilities 168,392 170,031
Scope 2 – Electricity, heat, 
steam and cooling purchased 
for own use 9,032 9,531
Total 177,424 179,562
Intensity measurement:
Absolute tonnes equivalent
CO
2
e per £m of revenue 114 112
Our total footprint for the year 2015 has 
decreased by 1.2%, broadly in line with the 
Group’s reduction in revenue. However, our 
carbon intensity has increased by 1.2%, from 112 
to 114 tonnes CO
2
e per £m of revenue. This 
increase is due to a number of factors including 
more complete reporting.
Third-party assurance statement
Keller Group plc appointed Anthesis Consulting 
Group to provide independent assurance on 
the 2015 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG accounts 
presented above. Their summary opinion is 
provided below (full opinion and recommendations 
are available on request):
“Based on our review, we are not aware of any 
material modifications that should be made to 
Keller Group plc’s assertion that their Scope 1 
and 2 group inventory is in conformance with 
the requirements concerning greenhouse gas 
emissions under The Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 No.1970, following the 
methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.”
Anthesis Consulting Group, 12 February 2016
10,000
Keller employees worldwide
 39%
Reduction in injuries to hands and feet
0.35
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
per 100,000 hours worked
(2014: 0.39)
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Executive Committee
The role of the Committee is to  
assist the Chief Executive in:
 
 – developing and implementing strategy, 
operational plans, budgets, policies 
and procedures;
 – monitoring operating and financial 
performance;
 – assessing and controlling risks;
 – prioritising and allocating resource; and
 – monitoring competitive forces in each 
area in which we operate.
1 5 9
4 8
2 6 10
3 7 11 33
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
1 Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive
Age: 49
Nationality: British
Alain was appointed CEO of Keller in May 2015.  
A Mechanical Engineer by training, he was previously 
Group Operations Director of Rolls-Royce plc 
where he also served as a major divisional head. 
He has also held senior leadership positions at 
Tenneco, a Tier 1 automotive supplier, and at 
Wolseley, the building products distributor. Alain 
began his career as a consulting engineer at Arup.
2 James Hind
Finance Director
Age: 51
Nationality: British
James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 
after joining the Group from D S Smith plc, 
where he was Group Financial Controller. Prior 
to that, after qualifying as an accountant, James 
worked in the New York office of Coopers & 
Lybrand advising on mergers and acquisitions.
3 Wolfgang Sondermann
Engineering and Operations Director
Age: 65
Nationality: German
A Geotechnical Engineer by training, Wolfgang 
joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to 
the Board in 2003. In January 2016, Wolfgang 
was appointed Engineering and Operations 
Director. In 2014, Wolfgang was appointed 
as Chairman of the Board of the German 
Geotechnical Society (DGGT), a technical and 
scientific society dedicated to the science and 
application of soil and rock as a foundation and 
construction material. Wolfgang will retire 
from the business in 2016.
4 Venu Raju
Engineering and Operations Director 
(Designate)
Age: 55
Nationality: Indian
A Geotechnical Engineer by training, Venu joined 
the Group in 1994. Following appointments as 
Managing Director, Keller Singapore & Malaysia 
in 1999 and as Business Unit Manager, Keller 
Far East in 2009, Managing Director, Asia and 
to the Executive Committee in 2012, Venu was 
appointed Engineering and Operations Director 
(Designate) in 2016.
5 Mark Kliner
President of APAC 
(Asia-Pacific region)
Age: 51
Nationality: British
Mark joined the Group in 2006 and was 
appointed as Managing Director of Piling 
Contractors in 2007 and CEO of Keller Australia 
in 2010. Following the merger of Keller Australia 
and Keller Asia in January 2016, he was appointed 
President of APAC. Mark was appointed to the 
Executive Committee in 2012 and is a Civil and 
Structural Engineer by qualification.
6 John Rubright
President of North America
Age: 52
Nationality: American
John joined the Group in 1986. He was appointed 
as Senior Vice-President, Southern Region, of 
Hayward Baker in 2005, President of Hayward 
Baker in 2011 and as Managing Director, Keller 
North America in 2013. This title was changed 
to President of North America with effect from 
January 2016. John was appointed to the 
Executive Committee in 2012. He is a Civil 
Engineer by qualification.
7 Thorsten Holl
President of EMEA 
(Europe, Middle East and Africa)
Age: 46
Nationality: German 
Thorsten was appointed President of EMEA 
with effect from 16 November 2015. Thorsten 
has held a number of leadership roles with ABB 
and the Alstom Group, where he led several of 
its international businesses, including in China, 
where he built up a number of joint ventures. 
Most recently, he led the ARVOS-Group 
(Alstom’s Steam Auxiliary Components division 
as independent spin-off) as CEO – which he 
successfully developed as a stand-alone business. 
8 Michael Sinclair-Williams
HSEQ Director
Age: 54
Nationality: British
Michael holds a PhD in Risk/Quality Management 
and has a varied background in senior safety 
and operational roles. He joined Keller in 2012 
as Health, Safety & Environment Director and 
was appointed to the Executive Committee in 
2013. In January 2016, he was also made 
responsible for Quality.
9 Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
Age: 45
Nationality: British
Kerry was appointed Company Secretary in 2013. 
Kerry is a Fellow of the ICSA and has 20 years’ 
experience as a company secretary in a wide 
range of FTSE100 companies. She joined Keller 
as Company Secretary in 2013 and is Secretary 
to the Board and all its Committees.
10 Serge Zimmerlin
Human Resources Director
Age: 51
Nationality: French
Serge was appointed Human Resources Director 
in December 2015. He has extensive experience 
in general management, human resources and 
communications. His 25 years of global 
assignments cover more than 40 countries, 
including Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East 
and North and South America. These include 
international experience in the construction 
industry with Bouygues Group.
11 Joseph Hubback
Strategy Director
Age: 39
Nationality: British
Joseph was appointed Strategy Director in 
January 2016. Joseph was previously a Partner 
at McKinsey & Company in London where he 
worked with clients in the engineering and 
high-tech industries. Prior to McKinsey he held 
a variety of roles with ICI over a 10-year period. 
He started in project engineering, building 
factories, before moving into operations and 
supply chain management and then finishing off in 
sales roles leading accounts in EMEA and globally.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Operating review
Results summary and KPIs
Return on net operating assets (%)
**
Accident Frequency Rate Staff turnover (%)
In North America our total revenue increased 
by 10%. Adjusting for acquisitions and translation 
differences, like-for-like revenue was up 2%.  
The full year operating profit of £76.4m (2014: 
£59.9m) reflects a much improved result from 
our US businesses, partly offset by lower profits 
in Canada.
US
Our US business had a very strong second half, 
building on the good progress made in the first 
half as construction activity continues to improve 
across the country.
Our largest North American business, Hayward 
Baker, had another good year in 2015. The 
business improved its results in the year, despite 
having fewer major projects, proving the strength 
of its business model of performing a wide range 
of small to medium sized contracts across a broad 
range of products and geographies.
Our US piling companies performed very well, 
particularly Case and HJ Foundation which had 
record years on the back of strong regional 
markets and an excellent performance on a 
number of large projects. Highlights for Case 
included major projects working on the installation 
of catenary poles on rail lines and at a hydroelectric 
plant at Red Rock Dam in Iowa. HJ Foundation 
benefited from buoyant conditions in its domestic 
south Florida market, successfully completing the 
foundations for a number of landmark projects 
in Miami, often working with other Keller companies 
to provide multi-product solutions.
Bencor, the diaphragm wall company acquired in 
August, has been successfully integrated into the 
Group. Work on its US$135m project to repair 
and upgrade the East Branch Dam in Pennsylvania 
is progressing to plan.
Suncoast, the Group’s post-tension business 
which mainly serves the residential construction 
market, recorded a strong performance, taking 
full advantage of the increase in housing starts in 
the year.
Canada
Keller Canada has struggled in very difficult 
market conditions but managed to record a small 
profit helped by further reductions in overheads. 
Despite much reduced revenue, gross margins 
held up well and the business successfully 
performed the only major piling project in the 
year in the Alberta oil sands. On a positive note, 
we have just been awarded a C$43m multi-
product, technically demanding project in 
downtown Toronto in connection with the 
expansion of the city’s metro system.
North America
Australia
Australian dollar revenue decreased by around 30% 
and operating profit by nearly 50%, despite a good final 
settlement on the Wheatstone contract. This reflects 
a very difficult market for our traditional foundation 
businesses and having no replacement contract of near 
equivalent size for Wheatstone. The operating margin 
also declined following the conclusion of that project.
In response to the difficult market conditions, 
we announced in November a merger of the 
Group’s three piling businesses into one, to be 
branded Keller Foundations. This merger is 
proceeding to plan and has been well received 
by both customers and employees. As a result of 
this and other cost-saving measures implemented 
during the year, we have reduced our Australian 
overheads by A$7m on an annualised basis.
In contrast to the construction market as a whole, 
the near-shore marine segment has remained 
robust and our businesses focusing on this 
segment performed well. Waterway had an 
excellent year and Austral, which was acquired 
in July 2015, has had an encouraging start as part 
of Keller.
In the last two months, Keller Australia has won 
two large projects: the construction of Mayfield 
No7 Wharf (A$43m) in Newcastle, New South 
Wales; and the foundations for the next phase 
of a major commercial development in Sydney 
(A$37m). As a result of these, other contract 
awards and the acquisition of Austral, the 
Australian order book is now 20% higher than 
this time last year. 
Organisational changes
With effect from 1 January 2016, the Asia and 
Australia divisions were merged to create a new 
Asia-Pacific (‘APAC’) division, under one 
leadership team, headquartered in Singapore. 
The new division provides much needed resource 
and capability to ensure we take advantage of the 
opportunities within the fast-growing Asia area 
and a number of scale efficiencies. The new 
division makes up around 20% of the Group’s 
revenue (North America being over 50% and 
EMEA around 30%) providing a better balanced 
portfolio. Going forward, we will report the 
Group’s results in three geographic divisions; 
North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East 
and Africa) and APAC.
Results summary and KPIs
Return on net operating assets (%)
**
Accident Frequency Rate Staff turnover (%)
Revenue (£m)
£851.2m
2014 775.6
2015 851.2
Revenue (£m)
£161.5m
2014 261.3
2015 161.5
Operating prot (£m)
*
£7.2m
2014 15.7
2015 7.2
Operating margin (%)
*
4.5%
2014 6.0
2015 4.5
2014 17
2015 22
2014 30
2015 14
2014 0.35
2015 0.26
2014 19
2015 10
2014 0.20
2015 0.12
2014 13
2015 7
Operating prot (£m)
*
£76.4m
2014 59.9
2015 76.4
Operating margin (%)
*
9.0%
2014 7.7
2015 9.0 35
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Accident Frequency Rate Staff turnover (%)
Revenue (£m)
£441.5m
2014 451.5
2015 441.5
Operating prot (£m)
*
£21.3m
2014 12.9
2015 21.3
Operating margin (%)
*
4.8%
2014 2.9
2015 4.8
Revenue (£m)
£108.2m
2014 111.3
2015 108.2
Operating prot (£m)
*
£4.5m
2014 8.3
2015 4.5
Operating margin (%)
*
4.2%
2014 7.5
2015 4.2
2014 8
2015 14
2014 0.42
2015 0.37
2014 14
2015 5
2014 15
2015 7
2014 0.64
2015 0.58
2014 11
2015 4
Results summary and KPIs
Return on net operating assets (%)
**
Accident Frequency Rate Staff turnover (%)
In sterling terms, revenue in EMEA as a whole 
decreased by 2% in 2015. On a constant currency 
basis however, revenue was 5% up on 2014. 
Operating profit grew significantly and the 
operating margin increased by nearly 2% to 4.8%, 
the highest level for six years, reflecting the 
benefit of continuing business improvement 
initiatives and a good performance on our major 
contract in the Caspian region.
Europe
Despite the mixed market conditions in Europe, 
our businesses improved their results through a 
focus on cost control, risk management and 
careful contract selection.
Our businesses in central Europe underpinned 
this improvement. Keller Poland benefited from 
the infrastructure investment in the country 
and was recently awarded a €17m ground 
improvement contract in connection with the 
upgrade of the S7 motorway in northern Poland. 
Germany once again reported an excellent result 
and the Group’s Austrian business performed 
well in a competitive market. The business is 
making good progress on the €31m St Kanzian 
contract, the major grouting project on the 
Koralm railway line between Graz and Klagenfurt. 
The UK business also had a better year in 2015, 
working on a wide variety of commercial and 
infrastructure projects. Much effort is currently 
being devoted to ensure Keller secures significant 
work on the major infrastructure projects 
scheduled for the next few years in the UK. 
Conditions in our larger markets in Southern 
Europe remain very challenging. The French 
construction market remains subdued whilst 
volumes in Spain are still at very low levels.
The European business has continued to move 
people and equipment around the region to 
those areas where there is more work and to 
support major projects elsewhere in the world. 
A good example of this was in reallocating 
resources from Eastern Europe to the Caspian 
region to undertake the major project in that area. 
Middle East and Africa
Competition in the Middle East remains tough but 
the Group increased its profit from the region. This 
performance was aided by a good result in Saudi 
Arabia and a number of contract wins in Qatar 
where, within two years of starting a business, we 
have already built a reputation for reliability and quality.
Franki Africa had a good year, significantly increasing 
both revenue and profit on the back of a strong 
performance in South Africa and the successful 
completion of Ada Phase 2, a major jetty project 
off the coast of Ghana. 
Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA)
After a very disappointing first half, both revenue and 
profit picked up significantly in Asia in the second 
half of the year. For the year as a whole, revenue 
was broadly flat but profit was down significantly, 
reflecting the break-even performance in the first 
half. The operating margin was 4.2%, down from 7 .5%.
ASEAN
Despite a much improved second half, Keller’s 
ASEAN businesses as a whole had a disappointing year , 
with revenue broadly flat and profit much reduced. 
In Singapore, the market was quiet with no 
growth in commercial construction and a virtual 
stop in projects for the oil and gas industry. In 
addition, we suffered from significant delays on 
our major vibro-compaction contract at Changi 
airport for reasons beyond the Group’s control. 
The Malaysian construction market slowed 
significantly in the year as a result of the fall in the oil 
price. This slowdown, combined with a delay on one 
of our larger projects, meant that our traditional 
Malaysian business had a disappointing 2015. 
Encouragingly, however, Ansah, the small driven 
piling business acquired in 2014, far exceeded our 
expectations winning some substantial work on the 
RAPID petrochemical complex being constructed 
by Petronas in south eastern Malaysia. In total, 
Keller’s work on RAPID will total nearly US$50m.
Towards the end of 2015, we won our first major 
ground improvement project in Indonesia. This is a 
US$25m contract to provide vibro-compaction 
works at Pluit City, a newly created group of 
islands near Jakarta. 
India
Keller India performed well in 2015, helped by 
an improving construction market. The business 
has entered the near-shore marine construction 
market, leveraging off existing Keller expertise 
in Australia.
Results summary and KPIs
Return on net operating assets (%)
**
Asia
*
 Before exceptional items.
**
 Operating profit before exceptional items expressed as 
a percentage of average net operating assets (including 
goodwill acquired through acquisitions). ‘Net operating 
assets’ excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred 
consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial review
James Hind
Finance Director
Earnings per share
1
 
increased to 86.4p, 
an increase of 15%. 
36
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cash ow history
*
 – prots = cash
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
141.9
124.2
113.2
91.9
144.3
71.4
155.5
125.8
85.0
104.9
EBITDA Group operating cash ow
37
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
£103.4m
Operating profit
1
Results
Trading results
1
Group revenue for the year was £1,562.4m, down 
2% on 2014 and down 4% after stripping out the 
effects of acquisitions and foreign exchange 
movements. This decrease was entirely due to 
Australia, where revenue fell by almost £100m 
in the year as a result of the completion of the 
Wheatstone contract, the Group’s largest ever 
project, and a continuing decline in the Australian 
construction market. On a constant currency 
basis, the Group’s other three divisions all 
reported increases in revenue.
EBITDA was £155.5m, compared to £141.9m 
in 2014, and operating profit was £103.4m, an 
increase of 12% on the £92.0m generated in 2014. 
The Group operating margin increased from 5.8% 
to 6.6%. This increase is due to a combination of 
operational improvements, some good final 
project settlements and improving market 
conditions in some countries, most notably 
the US from where Keller derives almost 50% 
of its revenue.
In North America as a whole, which represented 
54% of Group revenue, operating profit increased 
by 28% from £59.9m in 2014 to £76.4m in 2015. 
In constant currency, revenue was up 3% and 
operating profit increased by 19%, reflecting an 
improved performance across virtually all the 
Group’s US businesses, in part due to the 
continuing steady improvement in the US 
construction market. Our business in Canada 
continues to experience very challenging market 
conditions, but still made a small profit in the year.
In EMEA, conditions in our key markets remained 
mixed, but across the region as a whole there 
were signs of improvement, particularly in 
Northern Europe and the Middle East. While 
reported revenue decreased slightly, it was up 
5% on a constant currency basis and operating 
profit increased from £12.9m to £21.3m. This 
improvement in profitability was mainly due to 
excellent performances from our businesses in 
Central and Eastern Europe, good progress on 
the major project in the Caspian region and a 
strong result from Franki Africa. 
Revenue in Asia was broadly flat and operating 
profit decreased from £8.3m in 2014 to £4.5m 
in 2015. This reduction was almost wholly in the 
first half of the year due to delays in the timing 
of some large projects and challenging market 
conditions in Malaysia.
In Australia, revenue was down by nearly 40% 
and around 30% on a constant currency basis. 
Operating profit was £7.2m, down from £15.7m 
in 2014. This reflects the substantially reduced 
contribution from Wheatstone and the very 
difficult market conditions faced by our 
foundation businesses. 
Net finance costs
1
Net finance costs increased from £6.9m in 2014 
to £7.7m in 2015. This increase is attributable to 
lower non-cash income from financial assets. 
Net interest payable on the Group’s net debt 
was £6.5m, a similar level to 2014. 
Test
Covenant 
limit
Current 
position
*
Net debt: EBITDA < 3x 1.5x
EBITDA interest cover > 4x 22.2x
Net worth > 200m £330.5m
*
  Calculated in accordance with the covenant, with certain 
adjustments to net debt and net interest and EBITDA 
annualised for acquisitions.
Operating margin from continuing operations (%)
*
*
 Before exceptional items.
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
5.8
5.4
7.4
3.7
10.0
2.5
6.6
11.2
4.1
10.4
Investment (£m)
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
68.6
245.2
33.7
37.9
126.7
Capital expenditure Acquisitions
*
  From continuing operations
1
  Before pre-tax exceptional items of £39.4m (2014: 
£56.9m). £31.2m of this relates to a partial impairment of 
the Keller Canada goodwill balance. The balance relates 
primarily to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Dividend per share (pence)
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
25.2
24.0
21.75
22.8
20.7
22.8
27.1
18.0
22.8
15.6 38
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Financial review continued
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2015 totalled £39.4m, 
all of which are non-trading items relating to 
acquisitions. £31.2m of this relates to a partial 
impairment of the goodwill which arose on the 
acquisition of Keller Canada in 2013. This business 
is heavily exposed to construction in the Canadian 
oil sands region, which has reduced dramatically 
following the substantial fall in the price of oil. 
The remaining goodwill relating to Keller Canada 
amounts to £27.6m. The other 2015 exceptional 
items primarily relate to the amortisation of 
other intangible assets arising on the acquisition 
of businesses.
Tax
The Group’s effective tax rate before exceptional 
items was 34.5%, slightly below the 2014 effective 
rate of 34.9%. The effective tax rate appears high 
compared to the UK statutory rate because of 
the geographic mix of profits, with around 70% 
of the Group’s 2015 pre-exceptional profit before 
tax being earned in the US, where the combined 
federal and state corporate tax rates total 
nearly 40%. 
An exceptional tax credit of £3.0m has been 
reflected on the 2015 exceptional items. This 
comprises £7.7m of credits on the exceptional 
charges, partly offset by a £4.7m write-down of 
the deferred tax asset in Canada as a result of 
the Keller Canada goodwill impairment. 
Profit for the period
Profit for the period attributable to shareholders 
before exceptional items was £62.7m, a 13% 
increase on 2014. Profit for the period after 
exceptional items totalled £26.3m (2014: loss 
of £1.2m).
Earnings and dividends
Earnings per share (EPS) before exceptional items 
increased to 86.4p (2014: 75.3p), an increase of 
15%, in line with the increase in the Group’s profit 
after tax. 
EPS after exceptional items was 35.5p (2014: loss 
per share of 4.2p).
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 
18.3p per share, which brings the total dividend 
for the year to 27.1p, a 7.5% increase on 2014. The 
2015 dividend is covered 3.2x times by earnings 
before exceptional items.
Cash flow and financing
1,2
The Group has always placed a high priority on 
cash generation and the active management of 
working capital. In 2015, cash generated from 
operations before exceptional items was 
£142.3m, representing 92% (2014: 117%) of 
EBITDA before exceptional items. This continues 
the Group’s excellent record of converting profits 
into cash, with the aggregate of the last 10 years 
of cash generated from operations representing 
99% of EBITDA. Year-end working capital was 
£97.1m, which is below the level at the end of 
2014, despite making two acquisitions during the 
year. Net capital expenditure totalled £69.9m, 
compared to depreciation and amortisation 
of £52.1m.
At 31 December 2015, net debt amounted to 
£183.0m (2014: £102.2m). The increase is mainly 
due to expenditure of £52.5m on acquisitions 
during the year and an exceptional cash outflow 
of £27.5m relating to the exceptional contract 
provision announced in 2014. Based on net assets 
of £334.0m, year-end gearing was 55%.
The Group’s term debt and committed facilities 
comprise US$165m of US private placements 
maturing between 2018 and 2024 and a £250m 
multi-currency syndicated revolving credit facility 
expiring in September 2019. At the year end, the 
Group had undrawn committed and uncommitted 
borrowing facilities totalling £153.5m.
The most significant covenants in respect of our 
main borrowing facilities relate to the ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA, EBITDA interest cover and the 
Group’s net worth. The Group is operating well 
within all of its covenant limits.
Capital structure and allocation
The Group’s capital structure is kept under 
constant review, taking account of the need 
for and availability and cost of various sources 
of finance.
The Group’s objective is to deliver long-term 
value to its shareholders whilst maintaining a 
balance sheet structure that safeguards the 
Group’s financial position through economic 
cycles. In this context, the Board has established 
clear priorities for the use of capital. In order of 
priority these are:
i  To fund profitable organic growth 
opportunities
ii  To finance bolt-on acquisitions that meet the 
Group’s investment criteria
iii  To pay ordinary dividends at a level which 
allows dividend growth through the cycle
iv  Where the balance sheet allows, to deploy 
funds for the benefit of shareholders in the 
most appropriate manner.
The deployment of funds to shareholders other 
than through ordinary dividends is unlikely to be 
considered where it might result in the Group’s 
net debt exceeding 1.5x EBITDA, after taking 
account of other investment opportunities and 
the seasonality of cash flows. Such deployment 
could include using the existing authority to buy 
back the Company’s shares.  39
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Pensions
The Group has defined benefit pension 
arrangements in the UK, Germany and Austria. 
The Group closed its UK defined benefit 
scheme for future benefit accrual with effect 
from 31 March 2006 and existing active 
members transferred to a new defined 
contribution arrangement. 
The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme 
was as at 5 April 2014, when the market value 
of the scheme’s assets was £35.8m and the 
scheme was 77% funded on an ongoing basis. 
Following the valuation, the level of contributions 
increased marginally to £1.6m a year, a level 
which will be reviewed following the next 
triennial actuarial valuation.
The 2015 year-end IAS 19 valuation of the UK 
scheme showed assets of £38.2m, liabilities of 
£48.5m and a pre-tax deficit of £10.3m.
In Germany and Austria, the defined benefit 
arrangements only apply to certain employees 
who joined the Group prior to 1991. The IAS 19 
valuation of the defined benefit obligation totalled 
£12.8m at 31 December 2015. There are no 
segregated funds to cover these defined benefit 
obligations and the respective liabilities are 
included on the Group balance sheet. 
All other pension arrangements in the Group are 
of a defined contribution nature.
Management of financial risks
Currency risk
The Group faces currency risk principally on its 
net assets, most of which are in currencies other 
than sterling. The Group aims to reduce the 
impact that retranslation of these assets might 
have on the balance sheet by matching the 
currency of its borrowings, where possible, with 
the currency of its other net assets. The majority 
of the Group’s borrowings are held in US dollars, 
Canadian dollars, Euros, Australian dollars, 
Singapore dollars and South African rand, in 
order to provide a hedge against these currency 
net assets.
The Group manages its currency flows to 
minimise currency transaction exchange risk. 
Forward contracts and other derivative financial 
instruments are used to hedge significant individual 
transactions. The majority of such currency flows 
within the Group relate to repatriation of profits, 
intra-Group loan repayments and any foreign 
currency cash flows associated with acquisitions. 
The Group’s foreign exchange cover is executed 
primarily in the UK.
The Group does not trade in financial 
instruments, nor does it engage in speculative 
derivative transactions.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is managed by mixing fixed 
and floating rate borrowings depending upon 
the purpose and term of the financing. As at 
31 December 2015, 87% of the Group’s 
third-party borrowings bore interest at 
floating rates.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are trade 
and other receivables, bank and cash balances and 
a limited number of investments and derivatives 
held to hedge certain of the Group’s liabilities. 
These represent the Group’s maximum exposure 
to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group has stringent procedures to manage 
counterparty risk and the assessment of 
customer credit risk is embedded in the contract 
tendering processes. Customer credit risk is 
mitigated by the Group’s relatively small average 
contract size, its diversity, both geographically and 
in terms of end markets, and by taking out credit 
insurance in many of the countries in which the 
Group operates. No individual customer 
represented more than 5% of revenue in 2015.
The counterparty risk on bank and cash balances 
is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of 
exposure to any one institution by reference 
to their credit rating and by regular reviews of 
these ratings.
James Hind
Finance Director
Our Strategic report, from pages 4 to 39, 
has been reviewed and approved by the 
Board of Directors on 29 February 2016.
By order of the Board
Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
29 February 2016
1
 Before pre-tax exceptional items of £39.4m (2014: £56.9m). 
£31.2m of this relates to a partial impairment of the Keller 
Canada goodwill balance. The balance relates primarily to 
the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
2
  Before £27.5m cash outflow in 2015 relating to the 2014 
exceptional contract provision.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement
Board of Directors
1 Roy Franklin
Chairman
Age: 62
Nationality: British
Roy was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Chairman of the 
Board and the Nomination Committee in 2009. He was formerly Chief 
Executive of Paladin Resources plc and Group Managing Director of 
Clyde Petroleum plc, following various senior management posts at BP. 
Roy’s background in the international oil and gas sector brings with it an 
understanding of what it takes to operate within challenging markets.
Roy is Deputy Chairman of Statoil A/S and is a Non-executive Director 
of the Australian-listed company Santos Ltd. He is also an Advisory Board 
Member of Kerogen Capital and is Chairman of privately held Cuadrilla 
Resources Holdings Limited. Roy has been appointed as Non-executive 
Director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, the British multinational consultancy, 
engineering and project management company.
2 Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive
Age: 49
Nationality: British
Alain was appointed CEO of Keller in May 2015. A Mechanical Engineer by 
training, he was previously Group Operations Director of Rolls-Royce plc 
where he also served as a major divisional head. He has also held senior 
leadership positions at Tenneco, a Tier 1 automotive supplier, and at 
Wolseley, the building products distributor. Alain began his career as 
a consulting engineer at Arup.
3 James Hind
Finance Director
Age: 51
Nationality: British
James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 after joining the Group from 
D S Smith plc, where he was Group Financial Controller. Prior to that, after 
qualifying as an accountant, James worked in the New York office of 
Coopers & Lybrand advising on mergers and acquisitions.
4 Wolfgang Sondermann
Engineering and Operations Director
Age: 65
Nationality: German
A Geotechnical Engineer by training, Wolfgang joined the Group in 1986 
and was appointed to the Board in 2003. In January 2016, Wolfgang was 
appointed Engineering and Operations Director. In 2014, Wolfgang was 
appointed as Chairman of the Board of the German Geotechnical Society 
(DGGT), a technical and scientific society dedicated to the science and 
application of soil and rock as a foundation and construction material. 
Wolfgang will retire from the business in 2016.
5 Ruth Cairnie
Independent Non-executive Director
Age: 62
Nationality: British
Appointed to the Board in 2010, Ruth is a member of the Nomination, 
Audit and Health, Safety & Environment Committees and is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
1
2
3
4 41
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
A physicist by background, Ruth’s strategic and commercial experience were 
gained within Shell, where she held a number of senior international roles, 
most recently as Executive Vice President Strategy and Planning, before her 
retirement in 2014. Ruth is a Non-executive Director of Associated British 
Foods plc and Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
6 Paul Withers
Senior Independent Director
Age: 59
Nationality: British
Appointed to the Board in 2012 and a member of the Audit, Nomination, 
Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environment Committees, Paul is also 
the Senior Independent Director. He qualified as a Chartered Mechanical 
Engineer and was Group Managing Director at BPB plc, the international 
building materials business, where he spent his executive career. He is a 
Non-executive Director of Devro plc and Premier Farnell plc.
7 Chris Girling
Independent Non-executive Director
Age: 62
Nationality: British
Chris was appointed to the Board in 201 1 and is a member of the 
Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety & Environment Committees 
and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A Chartered Accountant by training, Chris was formerly Group Finance 
Director of Carillion plc and he brings to Keller his background in a range 
of sectors, as well as recent and relevant financial experience. He is a 
Non-executive Director of Workspace Group PLC and South East Water 
Limited and the independent Chairman Trustee for Slaughter and May’s 
pension fund. 
8 Nancy Tuor Moore
Independent Non-executive Director
Age: 67
Nationality: American
Nancy was appointed to the Board in 2014 and is a member of the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees and Chairman of the Health, 
Safety & Environment Committee. Nancy’s extensive international business 
experience, together with a proven record in winning and safely delivering 
both global and local contracts, was gained at CH2M Hill, Inc., where she 
held the board position of Group President and Corporate Sponsor for 
Sustainability before retiring in 2013. Nancy is a Non-executive Director 
of Global Food Exchange and Terracon, Inc. and a member of the Board 
of Governors for Colorado State University.
9 Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
Age: 45
Nationality: British
Kerry was appointed Company Secretary in 2013. Kerry is a Fellow of the 
ICSA and has 20 years’ experience as a company secretary in a wide range 
of FTSE100 companies. She joined Keller as Company Secretary in 2013 
and is Secretary to the Board and all its Committees.
5
6 8
7
9
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Chairman’s introduction
Dear shareholder
In this part of the Annual Report, we set out the measures that we have 
taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of 
corporate governance. We have complied with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014 throughout the year, however good 
corporate governance requires much more and I set out below how the 
Board has fulfilled its role in this area. 
At Keller, the Board of Directors is accountable for ensuring that the highest 
standards of governance facilitate the success of the Company and sustain 
this over time.
The Board believes that Keller’s effectiveness should be supported by a 
strong governance framework. During the year, we reviewed and agreed 
a new version of our Code of Business Conduct and in 2016, the Group’s 
Business Conduct Programme will continue to promote honesty, fairness 
and integrity in relations between the Company, employees and their work 
colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and the communities in which 
we work. 
Orderly succession planning is vital in running a sustainable business.  
In May 2015, Justin Atkinson retired as CEO after 25 years with the business.  
We were delighted to announce the appointment of his successor, 
Alain Michaelis. Further information on how we dealt with our new CEO 
appointment can be found in the Nomination Committee report, 
together with further detail on how the Nomination Committee, under 
the Chairmanship of our Senior Independent Director, Paul Withers, 
is carrying out the search for my successor.
At the end of 2014, an internal Board evaluation was undertaken which 
completed in early 2015. The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that 
the Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and 
that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains 
a strong commitment to their role. The resulting development themes 
that arose from the evaluation are discussed on page 49. I have also 
set out how we have progressed against the areas we identified for 
improvement as part of the 2014-15 review.
Communications with our shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders. We maintain a corporate 
website, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, 
including presentations to institutional investors and analysts. The website 
is updated with all formal communications to the investment community 
immediately following their release through a regulatory news service, in 
compliance with Keller’s obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules. The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to 
communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes 
their participation. 
Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly 
meet with, and make presentations to, institutional investors in the UK, 
Continental Europe and the US. These include meetings following the 
announcement of the annual and interim results with the Company’s largest 
institutional shareholders on an individual basis. Our Finance Director also 
meets regularly with our debt investors. All major shareholders have the 
opportunity on request to meet the Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Director or, on appointment, any new Non-executive Directors. On a 
regular basis, the Board is apprised of the views of the investment 
community through the circulation of brokers’ research notes and 
feedback from analysts and investors, supplemented by occasional 
investor perception surveys.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously 
required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. I hope that you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an 
important topic.
Yours faithfully,
Roy A Franklin
Chairman
29 February 2016 43
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date 
of this report, we have complied with the provisions set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the ‘Code’). The Code is publicly 
available at the website of the Financial Reporting Council (www.frc.org.uk). 
This Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts 
describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
A. Leadership
A.1 The role of the Board
The Board met formally nine times during the year. The Group is controlled 
through its Board of Directors. The Board has formally adopted a schedule 
of matters reserved to it for decision.
A.2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are defined and there is a 
clear division of responsibilities. Roy Franklin, the Chairman, is responsible 
for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board. Alain Michaelis, the Chief 
Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the 
Group’s business.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the Board’s agenda, ensures that adequate time is given 
for discussion of all agenda items, facilitates effective Board processes, and 
ensures that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and 
constructive part in the Board and Board Committee discussion. Also, the 
Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
A.4 Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop 
proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge 
and experience to the Board’s deliberations. Periodically, the Chairman 
meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
present. Apart from the formal Board meetings, there is regular informal 
contact between the Directors. 
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The Composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the 
Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of 
the Directors.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee 
can be found on page 49.
B.3 Commitment
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment expected 
from them. External directorships, which may impact existing time 
commitments, must be agreed with the Chairman.
B.4 Development
On appointment, the Directors are provided with induction training 
and information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters 
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of 
Board Committees and the latest financial information. This is supplemented 
by meetings with the Company’s legal and other professional advisers, 
where appropriate, visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior 
executives to develop the Directors’ understanding of the business. 
Also, the Directors are continually apprised of best practice, regulatory 
and legislative developments.
B.5 Information and Support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that 
all Board members receive timely and accurate information. The Company 
Secretary ensures that there are effective information flows to the 
Board and its Committees and between senior management and  
Non-executive Directors. 
B.6 Evaluation
During 2015, the Company Secretary assisted the Chairman in a review  
of the performance of the Board, its Committees and Directors. 
B.7 Re-election
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 
2015 AGM, as will be the case at the AGM in May 2016.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Strategic report on pages 4 to 39 provides information about the 
performance of the Group, the business model, strategy, principal risks  
and uncertainties relating to the Group’s future prospects.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. Principal risks, 
including potential impacts and mitigating actions are set out on pages 26  
to 28 of the Strategic report.
C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit 
Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial 
reporting processes, internal audit and work undertaken by the external 
auditors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides regular updates 
to the Board.
D. Remuneration
D.1 The Level and Components of Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration appropriately  
so as to attract, retain and motivate the Board, but also structures 
remuneration so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, 
thereby aligning management’s interest with those of shareholders.
D.2 Procedure
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 52 to 66.
E. Relations with shareholders
E.1 Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and  
has an established cycle of communication based on the Group’s financial 
reporting calendar. This includes preliminary results in February, publication 
of the Annual Report in March, half-year results in August and Interim 
Management Statements in May and November. The Board is keen to 
understand the views of shareholders and ensures open dialogue 
throughout the year.
E.2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional 
shareholders and welcomes their participation. The Notice of the AGM, 
detailing all proposed resolutions, is sent to shareholders at least  
20 working days before the meeting.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Leadership
The terms of reference for each of the Board’s key Committees, which are reviewed on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Key roles Responsibilities
Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: 
– ensuring appropriate Board composition;
– ensuring effective Board processes;
– setting the Board’s agenda;
–  ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board 
Committee discussions;
– ensuring effective communication with shareholders; and
– ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the formulation of strategy and the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters:
– formulating strategy proposals for the Board;
– formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this strategy will be delivered;
–  apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Group and its performance, including any 
significantly underperforming business activities; and
–  leadership of executive management to enable the Group’s businesses to deliver the requirements of  
shareholders: ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources; ensuring succession 
planning; and ensuring appropriate business processes.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are quite distinct from each other and are clearly defined in written  
terms of reference for each role. 
Senior Independent Director Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication.
The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise  
issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman. The Board has agreed that the Senior Independent Director 
will act as Chairman of the Board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
Company Secretary Ensures good information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and  
Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is  
responsible for ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has adopted  
and that there are effective information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management  
and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
The role of the Board and its Committees
Board
Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and corporate governance
 – provide entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Group, 
driving it forward for the 
benefit, and having regard 
to, the views of its 
shareholders and other 
stakeholders 
 – govern the Group within 
a framework of prudent 
and effective controls 
which enable risk to be 
assessed and managed 
to an appropriate level
 – approve the Group’s 
strategic objectives
 – ensure that sufficient 
resources are available 
to enable it to meet 
those objectives
 – it delegates authority 
to manage the business 
to the Chief Executive 
Officer and also 
delegates other matters 
to Board Committees 
and management 
as appropriate
 – the Board has formally 
adopted a schedule of 
matters reserved to it  
for its decision
Audit Committee
Oversee the Group’s 
financial reporting, risk 
management and internal 
control procedures and 
the work of its internal 
and external auditors  
(page 50)
HSE Committee
Oversee the Board’s 
responsibilities in relation 
to health, safety and 
environmental matters, 
arising out of the activities 
of the Company and  
its subsidiaries  
(page 48)
Nomination  
Committee
Review the composition 
of the Board and plan 
for its progressive  
refreshing with regard  
to balance and structure 
as well as succession 
planning (page 49)
Remuneration 
Committee
Determine the 
framework, policy  
and levels of 
remuneration of the CEO, 
Executive Directors and 
senior executives  
(page 52)
Executive  
Committee 
Assists the CEO to 
develop and implement 
strategy, operational 
plans, budgets, policies 
and procedures, monitor 
operating and financial 
performance, assess and 
control risks, prioritise 
and allocate resource, 
monitor competitive 
forces in each area  
of operation  
(page 32) 45
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Board and Committee meetings and attendance
Director Board
Audit 
Committee
HSE 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Justin Atkinson
1
4/4 – – – –
Ruth Cairnie
2
9/9 2/2 3/3 3/3 3/3
Roy Franklin 9/9 – – 3/3 –
Chris Girling
2
9/9 5/5 1/1 3/3 3/3
James Hind 9/9 – – – –
Alain Michaelis
3
5/5 – – – –
Wolfgang 
Sondermann 9/9 – – – –
Nancy Tuor 
Moore
2
9/9 5/5 3/3 3/3 2/2
Paul Withers 9/9 5/5 3/3 3/3 3/3
1  Justin retired from the Board on 14 May 2015. Justin Atkinson did not attend a 
Nomination Committee meeting relating to CEO succession. 
2  All Non-executive Directors were appointed members of all Board Committees on 
24 September 2015. 
3 Alain Michaelis succeeded Justin Atkinson as Chief Executive Officer on 14 May 2015.
Board diversity
Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its Board 
to provide the necessary range of background, experience, values and 
perspectives to optimise the decision-making process. Gender is seen as one 
important aspect of diversity to which the Chairman and the Nomination 
Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon the most appropriate 
composition of the Board. 
The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities and 
experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition and this 
forms the key objective and basis for the search and assessment of 
candidates for future positions. Within this context, in the ongoing process 
of refreshing the Board, the Company continues to encourage and welcome 
interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Board’s 
diversity. Against this overriding objective, the Company does not currently 
propose to set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of 
diversity on its Board in future years.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, comprises 
25% women – two women: six men (25% at 2 March 2015 – two women: 
six men).
Within the Keller Group, our overall senior management population 
comprises 6% women and women employees account for 9% of the 
organisation as a whole. 
Professional development
On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and 
information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters 
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the 
Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group. 
This is supplemented by meetings with the Company’s legal and other 
professional advisers, and, where appropriate, visits to key locations and 
meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors’ 
understanding of the business. 
Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are continually 
updated on the Group’s business, its markets, social responsibility matters 
and other changes affecting the Group and the industry in which it operates, 
including changes to the legal and governance environment and the 
obligations on themselves as Directors. 
Directors’ conflicts of interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation where 
they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with Keller’s interests. The Act allows Directors 
of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where 
appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this 
effect. The Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve 
such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest 
to be dealt with. To address this issue, at the commencement of each 
Board meeting, the Board considers its register of interests and gives, 
when appropriate, any necessary approvals. 
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to 
authorise a conflict or potential conflict. First, only Directors who have 
no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant 
decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a 
way that they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote Keller’s 
success. The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving 
authorisation if they think this is appropriate. These procedures on conflict 
have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the 
approach to operate effectively.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Effectiveness
2015 Board meetings – time spent
Strategy
Finance
Governance
Procedural
People
41%
27%
23%
5%
4%
Directors and Directors’ independence
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other Non-executive 
Directors and three Executive Directors. The names of the Directors at 
the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out 
on pages 40 and 41. All of these Directors served throughout the year with 
the exception of Alain Michaelis who was appointed on 14 May 2015. 
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop 
proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgment, knowledge 
and experience to the Board’s deliberations. Periodically, the Chairman 
meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
present. Apart from formal contact at Board meetings, there is regular 
informal contact between the Directors.
Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling, Nancy Tuor Moore and Paul Withers are all 
considered to be independent Non-executive Directors. Roy Franklin was 
independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2009. 
Roy’s other professional commitments are as detailed on page 40. 
Roy has announced his intention to retire from the Board during 2016, 
once a suitable successor has been recruited.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM 
following their appointment and to annual re-election thereafter, in 
accordance with the Code.
Board evaluation 
Further to the 2014 Board evaluation, a number of actions were taken in the 
areas of: Chairman and Non-executive Director succession planning and 
increased interaction between the Board and the Executive Committee.
Details of how those areas were addressed in 2015 can be found in the 
report of the Nomination Committee on page 49.
Due to changes in the Board’s composition during the year, no evaluation 
was carried out in 2015. An external review is planned for 2016.
The Chairman has confirmed that the Directors standing for election at 
this year’s AGM continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate 
commitment to their roles. 
Information and support
The Board and each Committee are satisfied that they receive sufficient, 
reliable and timely information in advance of meetings and are provided 
with all necessary resources and expertise to enable them to fulfil their 
responsibilities and undertake their duties in an effective manner.
For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with 
a tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting. To improve 
the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company continues to 
use an electronic system allowing the Board to easily access information, 
irrespective of geographic location. Directors regularly receive additional 
information from the Company between Board meetings, including a 
monthly Group performance update. Where a Director was unable to 
attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers and information 
relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly 
with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Board focus areas in 2015
Strategy
 – reviewed and approved: 
 – the Group’s strategic review and the recommendations arising 
(see ‘Chief Executive’s review’ page 6 for further details)
 – the annual budget
 – the approach and process enabling it to make the viability statement 
(see page 28 of the Strategic report for the process; and page 67 
of the Directors’ report for the statement)
 – evaluated and approved:
 – the acquisition of Bencor, a business providing diaphragm wall technology 
in the US (see ‘Strategy in action’ page 14 for further details)
 – the acquisition of Austral, a marine piling business in Western Australia 
(see ‘Strategy in action’ page 16 for further details)
Risk
 – considered the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact 
the Group
 – reviewed the risk management framework with particular regard to 
its impact on making the viability statement
CEO succession
 – agreed the terms of Justin Atkinson’s retirement as CEO from the Company 
 – agreed the appointment of Alain Michaelis as CEO with effect from 
14 May 2015 (for further details on each of the arrangements please 
refer to the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 52 to 66)
Talent development
 – reviewed and discussed progress in developing a succession plan for the 
Group’s senior management population
Finance
 – considered and agreed the 2015 interim and final dividends
Operational performance
 – received and considered strategic and operational performance 
presentations from the Presidents of the US, Australia, Asia and 
EMEA regions
 – attended an overseas Board visit in Singapore, where they met with 
the local management team, took part in a site visit to Changhi Airport, 
and met with participants in the Global Engineering Programme 47
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Accountability
Internal control
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a system is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group, which has 
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval 
of the Annual Report and Accounts. This process is regularly reviewed by 
the Board and accords with the guidance of the Financial Reporting Council. 
Details on the identification and evaluation of risk can be found in the 
section headed ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 26 to 28.
The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows:
(a) Authorisation procedures
Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail of 
accountability. These procedures are relevant across Group operations and 
provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of 
management and, finally, to the Board.
(b) Management of project risk
Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding 
stage to completion.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are 
performed as part of the bidding process. Authority limits applicable to the 
approval of bids relate both to the specific risks associated with the contract 
and to the total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which 
Keller is a party. Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or 
commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory 
where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level 
within the operating company. 
On average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but larger 
contracts may extend over several months. The performance of contracts 
is monitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis. 
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any 
poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely 
carried out on extended duration contracts. 
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the section 
headed ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 26 to 28. 
(c) Health and safety
Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety matters are 
made to the HSE Committee and the Board.
(d) Budgeting and forecasting
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved 
by the Board. This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance 
sheets and cash flows. In addition, forecasts are prepared for the two 
subsequent years. Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during 
the year.
(e) Financial reporting
Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare 
profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and other information 
with budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
(f) Cash control
Each business reports its cash position weekly. Regular cash forecasts are 
prepared to monitor the Group’s short- and medium-term cash positions 
and to control immediate borrowing requirements.
(g) Investments and capital expenditure
All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, are 
referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
(h) Internal audit
The Group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced audit 
reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial 
controls. The intention is to conduct an internal audit of all material business 
units at least once every four years. This programme has been carried out 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers since 2010. The programme is approved and 
monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings of each 
such exercise.
(i) Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire (‘EICQ’)
Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an electronic 
questionnaire responding to whether key internal financial and non-financial 
controls are in place. The results of these questionnaires are summarised in 
a ‘heat map’, which is presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee. 
The responses to the questionnaires are also reviewed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers during each internal audit.
(j) Annual compliance statement
Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of 
internal controls for which they are responsible; and their compliance with 
Group policies, local laws and regulations; and to report any significant 
control weaknesses or ‘breakdowns’ identified in the past year.
(k) Business conduct
The Group’s business conduct handbook sets out the Group’s policies 
and processes with regards to conducting business in all business units 
worldwide. All business units are required to self-certify that they are 
compliant with the Group’s business conduct handbook and compliance 
with the handbook is considered as part of the independent reviews.
During 2015 the Code was revised and refreshed and its launch will take 
place during 2016.
(l) Whistleblowing procedures
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice 
at the earliest possible stage. In 2016 we are introducing a new externally 
facilitated whistleblowing hotline service for employees. Any issues raised 
under our procedures are thoroughly investigated and reported back to 
the Audit Committee.
The management of financial risks is described in the Financial review on 
pages 36 to 39.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Health, Safety & Environment Committee report
Nancy Tuor Moore
Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee
HSE Committee Membership:
 – Nancy Tuor Moore (chairman from 26 June 2014)
 – Ruth Cairnie
 – Chris Girling (appointed on 24 September 2015)
 – Paul Withers 
Dear shareholder
It is my pleasure to present the HSE Committee Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
Key objective
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
in relation to health, safety and environmental matters arising out of the 
activities of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Committee is responsible 
for monitoring and reviewing the Group’s Health and Safety Framework 
in line with applicable laws and regulations. It also evaluates and oversees 
the quality and integrity of the Company’s reporting to external 
stakeholders concerning health, safety and environmental matters.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee membership
Further to the 2015 Board and Committee review and evaluation 
process, it was agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should 
constitute the membership of all of the Board Committees. Accordingly, 
Chris Girling was appointed a member of the Committee with effect 
from 24 September 2015.
 
Committee meetings
The Chief Executive and the Group Health, Safety, Environment & 
Quality Director attend all meetings of the Committee. Members of the 
Executive Committee have an open invitation to attend meetings where 
they are encouraged to contribute and present and are required to 
attend to report to the Committee in the event of a major incident 
or near-miss occurrence. 
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year. During this 
financial year the Committee met three times. 
Activities of the Committee
The main activities of the Committee since the last report were 
as follows:
 – reviewing the Group’s safety performance in 2015 against its plan;
 – receiving safety performance reports and updates on progress against 
the 2015 health, safety and environment plan;
 – revising the Group’s HSE Assurance Framework and receiving updates 
on the 2015 Assurance Programme;
 – receiving reports on the implementation of Root Cause Analysis training 
workshops within the business;
 – approving the inclusion of the Quality Management framework within 
the HSE functional teams;
 – reviewing the positioning of the Group in relation to sustainability; 
 – receiving updates on our Environmental Awareness Campaign that was 
rolled out in 2015; and
 – receiving updates on regulatory and legal developments.
Progress during the year
Whilst we made significant progress against our annual HSE targets, 
these were tragically overshadowed by the deaths of two employees 
working on site in Malaysia during the year. The incident was investigated 
by the local regulator. Whilst the Company has given both financial 
and emotional support to the colleagues and families of the employees 
involved, and will continue to do so, we have conducted our own 
investigations to ensure that the learnings are shared across those of 
our businesses working in similar environments and such an occurrence 
is prevented from happening in the future.
The introduction of Quality into the HSE function will ensure that, going 
forward, standard operating procedures are put in place to continuously 
improve our products.
Reductions
The number of rigs overturned in 2015 have reduced by 25% and there 
has been a 39% reduction in hands and feet injuries.
We are also pleased to report a reduction of 10% in our AFR; 30% in 
major injuries; and 4% in LTIs.
Further detail on the Company’s HSE performance in 2015 can be 
found in our Strategic report on pages 29 to 31.
Nancy Tuor Moore
Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee
29 February 2016 49
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Nomination Committee report
Roy A Franklin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee membership:
 – Roy Franklin (Chairman)
 – Ruth Cairnie
 – Chris Girling
 – Nancy Tuor Moore
 – Paul Withers
Dear shareholder
This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee 
and the work it carried out during 2015.
Key objective
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board 
and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of 
the Directors. 
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee membership
Only the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are members of 
the Committee. 
Justin Atkinson, who retired as CEO of the Company on 14 May 2015, 
was a member of the Committee until his retirement but did not attend 
meetings where CEO succession was discussed.
Committee meetings
No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be 
present at its meetings. The Committee may invite members of the 
senior management to attend meetings where it is felt appropriate and 
Alain Michaelis, the CEO, and Jackie Holman and Serge Zimmerlin (the 
Group HR Director to 30 November 2015 and from 1 December 2015, 
respectively) attended certain meetings during the year. 
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year. During this 
financial year the Committee met four times. 
Activities of the Committee
An evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out in June 
2014, by means of an electronic questionnaire compiled by the Company 
Secretary and facilitated by Lintstock. 
Two clear areas of consideration were raised by members of the Board:
 
 – succession planning for the Chairman; and 
 – the constitution of the Board Committees. 
The Chairman followed up these areas with the members of the Board 
individually in the first quarter of 2015 and the following actions have 
been taken:
Succession planning for the Chairman
Further to Roy Franklin’s advice of his intention to retire from the 
Board during 2016, the Nomination Committee appointed Zygos 
to lead the search for the Chairman’s successor. Paul Withers, as 
the Senior Independent Director, is leading the process on behalf 
of the Committee and a project timeline for the search and future 
appointment has been agreed.
Constitution of the Board Committees
Further to discussion regarding the membership of the Board Committees:
(a)  all Non-executive Directors are now members of each Board 
Committee; and
(b) the CEO is no longer a member of the Nomination Committee.
Succession planning for the Non-executive Directors
In addition to the above actions, the Chairman and Company Secretary 
commenced a process looking at a more formal approach to Non-
executive Director succession planning. It was also agreed that the 
traditional length of tenure of the Non-executive Director of three terms 
of three years each be amended to two terms of three years each, with 
annual renewal up to a maximum period of three years thereafter, to 
allow for more flexibility in the succession planning process.
Other activities of the Committee since the last report were as follows:
 – CEO succession planning, culminating in the retirement of Justin Atkinson 
and appointment of Alain Michaelis on 14 May 2015; and 
 – oversight of the implementation of the Group’s executive development 
programme.
Keller and the Committee continue to encourage and welcome interest 
from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Board’s 
diversity. The Board’s overriding objective is to continue to provide 
effective leadership and, therefore, the Committee continues to 
recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates 
to the Board in line with the criteria set out on page 45. There are, 
therefore, no formal targets set for female representation at Board level. 
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2016, with the exception of Alain Michaelis 
who will seek his first election. 
In December 2015, the Committee formally reviewed the performance, 
contribution and commitment of each of the Directors retiring at this 
year’s AGM and seeking reappointment, and supported and recommended 
their reappointment to the Board. The Committee has confirmed 
that each Director continues to perform well both on an individual and 
collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the Board’s deliberations 
and demonstrating commitment to Keller’s long-term interests.
Roy A Franklin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
29 February 2016
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Corporate governance statement continued
Audit Committee report
Chris Girling
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee membership:
 – Chris Girling (Chairman)
 – Ruth Cairnie (appointed 24 September 2015)
 – Nancy Tuor Moore 
 – Paul Withers
Dear shareholder
This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee 
and the work it carried out during the year.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and the Company’s external auditors (the ‘Auditors’) 
normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, in their role as internal auditors, attend 
at least two meetings of the Committee each year. 
Key objective
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for 
ensuring that the Group’s financial systems provide accurate and 
up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Group’s 
published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this 
position. It also reviews the Group’s systems of internal control and the 
processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during 
the year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and 
on request from the Company Secretary. 
Committee membership
Further to the 2015 Board and Committee review and evaluation 
process, it was agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should 
constitute the membership of all of the Board Committees. Accordingly, 
Ruth Cairnie was appointed a member of the Committee with effect 
from 24 September 2015.
Committee meetings
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year. During this 
financial year the Committee met five times, all with the Company’s 
Auditors in attendance, and on two of these occasions, the Committee 
met privately with the Auditors without management being present. 
Activities of the Committee
During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
 – reviewing a report on the Group’s system of internal control and its 
effectiveness and receiving regular updates on the Group’s principal risks;
 – reviewing a report from management on their process for assessing the 
Group’s viability over a three-year period and reporting the outcomes of 
the assessment to the Board;
 – reviewing and approving the Auditors’ engagement letter and audit fee;
 – reviewing the Auditors’ reports and the Group’s draft financial statements 
and recommending them for approval to the Board;
 – reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and the 
independence and objectivity of the Auditors;
 – undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit process;
 – approving a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews of aspects 
of the Group’s operations and financial controls and receiving reports on all 
reviews carried out during the year;
 – receiving briefings on various technical issues, such as accounting standards 
and their practical consequences for Keller;
 – reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing policy and monitoring the procedures 
in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety;
 – reviewing the process for the refresh of the Group’s Code of Business 
Conduct and its programme for implementation in 2016;
 – reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness and its terms of reference;
 – reviewing the Group’s policy on employment of the Auditors for  
non-audit services;
 – reviewing the need for an internal audit function; and
 – reviewing the Group’s policy on the employment of former employees 
of the Auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Company’s processes and the 
outcomes of those processes to ensure that it was able to offer advice to 
the Board over whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts can be 
considered fair, balanced and understandable. The following processes are in 
place to provide this assurance: the co-ordination and review of the Annual 
Report and Accounts was performed within an exacting time-frame which 
ran alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the Auditors; guidance 
was issued to contributors at an operational level; an internal verification 
process dealing with the factual content of the reports took place; and a 
comprehensive review was undertaken by the senior management team 
and external advisers that aimed to ensure consistency and overall balance.
Significant issues considered by the Committee included those identified in 
the Independent Auditor’s Report. They related to the financial statements 
focused on the Group’s approach to key estimates and judgments in 
connection with:
 – accounting for construction contracts. The main factors considered when 
making those estimates and judgments include the percentage of work 
completed at the balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the costs 
of the work required to complete the contract and the outcome of claims 
and variations raised against customers and claims raised against the Group 
by customers or third parties. The Committee has reviewed a report 
prepared by management on the key estimates and judgments relating to 
construction contracts having a material impact on the Group’s result for 
the year; and
 – the carrying value of goodwill. The Group tests annually whether goodwill 
has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy 
set out in note 2 to the financial statements. The Group estimates the 
recoverable amount based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations 
require the use of assumptions, the most important being the forecast 
revenues, operating margins and the discount rate applied. The key 
assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations are set out in note 13 to 
the financial statements. The Committee has reviewed the key assumptions 
used for all impairment tests of material goodwill balances. In particular, this 
review has focused on Keller Canada where there is the most uncertainty 
surrounding the projections used in the value-in-use calculation. 51
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are described 
as exceptional in the consolidated income statement and discussed the 
appropriateness of such disclosure with the Company’s Auditors.
These matters and any audit differences are considered in the Committee 
meetings that review the full-year and interim results. At these meetings, 
the Committee discusses with the Auditors whether they consider 
management’s assumptions behind these estimates and judgments to 
be conservative or aggressive. In addition, during such meetings, the 
Committee meets with the Auditors without management being present.
Internal audit
PricewaterhouseCoopers continues to provide a structured programme 
of independent, outsourced reviews of all material business units at least 
once every four years. During 2015, the Audit Committee received and 
considered reports from PricewaterhouseCoopers which detailed the 
progress against the agreed work programme. This programme covered 
reviews of seven business units in six countries, which together 
represented approximately 20% of the Group’s revenue for the year. 
It included, for example, assessments of our Franki Africa businesses 
in South Africa and Mozambique; the Case business in the US; the 
Waterway business in Australia; and Keller Malaysia. Although there 
remains scope to improve the formality of certain controls in certain 
businesses to ensure they operate more effectively, there were no 
findings that PricewaterhouseCoopers considered of a significant nature. 
In September, the Committee formally reviewed the effectiveness of 
these arrangements and discussed them and any action plans arising 
with management, concluding that the internal audit arrangements 
were appropriate and effective.
External audit
The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high 
standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process and 
complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 (the CMA 
Audit Order) throughout the year.
KPMG, and its predecessor firms, has been the Company’s auditor since 
the Company first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1994. As set 
out in our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, KPMG were re-appointed 
as the Company’s Auditor in 2014 subsequent to a robust retendering of 
the external audit process. Following the introduction of the draft UK 
and EU guidance on mandatory auditor rotation, the Committee anticipates 
retendering the external audit again for the 2019 year-end, the year after 
the Company’s existing lead audit partner will be required to rotate off 
the audit of the Group.
The Committee has undertaken an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external audit process of the 2014 financial statements. This assessment 
focused on: the calibre of the audit firm (including reputation, presence 
in the industry, size, resources and geographic spread); its quality control 
processes; the quality of the team assigned to the audit; the audit scope, 
fee and audit communications; and the governance and independence of 
the audit firm. 
There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding the 
objectivity and independence of the Auditors. There are open lines of 
communication and reporting between the Auditors and the Committee 
and when presenting their ‘independence letter’ KPMG LLP discuss with 
the Committee their internal process for ensuring independence.
A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and 
non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit 
Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the 
placing of non-audit services to the Auditors, which should prevent any 
impairment of independence. Any work awarded to the Auditors, other 
than audit or tax compliance, with a value in excess of £100,000 requires 
the specific approval of the Committee. The Committee is aware of 
the new EU legislation, effective from mid-2016, restricting auditors from 
providing certain non-audit services and is monitoring the UK’s adoption 
of those provisions. The Committee will ensure that the Company 
complies with the new UK guidance once implemented.
Over the last three years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid to 
the Auditor averaged 57% of the total audit fee. Excluding the Reporting 
Accountants’ work which KPMG provided on the acquisition of Keller 
Canada in 2013, this ratio falls to 37%. The ratio of non-audit related fees 
paid to the Auditor in 2015 is 40% of the total audit fee.
Also, as part of its annual review of Auditors’ independence, the 
Committee reviews the level and nature of entertainment between 
the Auditors and management.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2016.
Chris Girling
Chairman of the Audit Committee
29 February 2016
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual statement
Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee membership:
 – Ruth Cairnie (Chairman)
 – Chris Girling
 – Nancy Tuor Moore (appointed 24 September 2015)
 – Paul Withers
Dear shareholder
It is my pleasure to present the Directors’ remuneration report for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
Committee role, remit and membership
In 2015, the Remuneration Committee’s remit and role were unchanged. 
Further to the 2015 Board and Committee review and evaluation process, 
it was agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should constitute the 
membership of all of the Board Committees. Accordingly, Nancy Tuor 
Moore was appointed a member of the Committee with effect from 
24 September 2015.
Remuneration policy
Our remuneration policy supports the following principles:
 – to provide a clear link between performance and reward and ensure 
that the Executive Directors’ interests are closely aligned with those of 
our shareholders; and
 – to help us to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives to manage 
the business and deliver against our strategy, ensuring the long-term success 
of the Company.
We operate a remuneration structure comprising base salary and benefits, 
a bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan. Our incentives are aligned with 
our strategic priorities. The outcomes reflect the performance of the 
business and strategic progress in 2015.
We continued to apply our remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) in May 2014. No changes to the 
remuneration policy are proposed for 2016.
The Committee will review the remuneration policy, in the context of 
Keller’s evolving requirements, changes in market practice and shareholder 
expectations, including recent guidance on time horizons and holding 
periods for long-term incentives and long-term executive share ownership, 
prior to submitting it for shareholder approval no later than the 2017 AGM, 
as required.
Activities of the Committee
The Committee’s main regular activities during 2015 were as follows:
 – we reviewed the performance of the Group for the year, and the 
performance of the Executive Directors to determine bonus outcomes 
for 2015;
 – we approved share awards for 2015;
 – we set base salaries and established the Executive Directors’ bonus 
arrangements for 2016;
 – we reviewed the base salaries and bonus arrangements for 2016 for 
the Executive Committee;
 – we reviewed the Directors’ remuneration report; and
 – we considered remuneration market trends and corporate 
governance developments.
In addition, during the year the Committee:
 – took advice on and agreed the remuneration arrangements for 
Alain Michaelis, who was appointed CEO during the year; and
 – took advice on and agreed the remuneration arrangements for 
Justin Atkinson, who retired as CEO on 14 May 2015 and whose 
employment with the Company terminated on 31 December 2015.
Remuneration for 2015
Alain Michaelis was appointed to the Board as CEO on 14 May 2015. From 
this date, Alain received an annual base salary of £500,000, pension by way 
of salary supplement in the amount of 18% of salary, a car allowance of 
£15,000 and other benefits including private health care, life assurance and 
long-term disability insurance. Alain was also entitled to participate in the 
Company’s annual bonus plan for 2015, pro-rated from his date of 
appointment to 31 December 2015, and the performance share plan. 53
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
An exceptional award of 200% of salary was made under the performance 
share plan, which is permitted under our approved policy to enable the 
recruitment of a suitably qualified candidate and with the additional benefit 
of creating strong alignment of the new CEO with our shareholders; we 
engaged our major shareholders on this matter. Justin Atkinson retired from 
the Board as CEO on 14 May 2015 and his employment with the Company 
terminated as at 31 December 2015.
Justin received his normal base salary and benefits during his employment 
but his bonus for 2015 was pro-rated to 30 June 2015 and he was not eligible 
for a share award in 2015. The financial arrangements relating to Justin’s 
retirement were consistent with the remuneration policy and disclosed 
on our website from 31 December 2015.
During 2015, Wolfgang Sondermann reached retirement age. At the request 
of the new CEO, the Committee considered and agreed an extension to 
Wolfgang’s employment contract which was due to expire at the end of 
2015. The contract has been extended until 30 April 2017 to support the 
leadership transition. The previous announcement of his possible retirement 
meant that, as reported last year, the Committee did not make him an 
annual share award in 2015. To ensure equal treatment and alignment of all 
Executive Directors, the Committee therefore intends to make Wolfgang an 
award in 2016 based on the lower number of shares he would have received 
in 2015 had the initial announcement not been made, with a performance 
period of 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 (the same as for other 
participants in the 2015-17 cycle). The award will vest three years from 
grant, i.e. not before 2019, and will also be pro-rated over the period from 
grant to the date of Wolfgang’s retirement. Wolfgang will not receive any 
share award in respect of 2016 itself.
Overall, the Group’s results for 2015 demonstrated continued good 
progress in delivery of the strategy with profit before tax
*
 increasing by 
12% and earnings per share
*
 by 15%. This strong performance by the Group 
for the year resulted in bonuses ranging from 57% to 59% of maximum for 
the Executive Directors under the Company’s annual bonus.
Performance Share Awards granted in 2013 are measured using EPS and 
TSR targets based on performance to 31 December 2015. The EPS targets 
were met in full and the TSR targets were partially met, such that 67.3% of 
the Awards will vest in 2016.
Details of the remuneration decisions for 2015 and implementation of the 
remuneration policy for 2016 are set out in the Directors’ annual 
remuneration report on pages 58 to 66.
Remuneration for 2016
The base salaries of Alain Michaelis, James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann 
were increased by 3%, to £515,000, £350,500 and £313,367 respectively, 
with effect from 1 January 2016, in line with general pay increases of 3% 
awarded across the Group. 
The Committee is not proposing any other changes to the implementation 
of our remuneration policy for 2016 compared to 2015.
Remuneration disclosure
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the UK Listing Authority’s 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The report is in two sections:
 – a summary of the Directors’ remuneration policy report (pages 54 to 
57). This section contains details of the remuneration policy approved at 
the 2014 AGM and is for information only; and 
 – the Directors’ annual remuneration report. This section sets out the 
details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and how we intend for it to apply for the year 
ending 31 December 2016 and it is the subject of an advisory shareholder 
vote at the AGM in May 2016.
I will be available at the AGM to answer your questions.
Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29 February 2016
Key objective
To determine the framework, broad policy and levels of remuneration 
for the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Group’s Finance 
Director and Engineering & Operations Director and other executives 
as deemed appropriate. The framework includes, but is not limited to, 
establishing stretching performance-related elements of reward and 
is intended to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Terms of reference of the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the 
year, are available on the Group’s website (www.keller.co.uk) and on 
request from the Company Secretary.
Committee meetings
Committee meetings are attended by the members. In addition, the 
Chairman and the CEO may attend meetings as required. The CEO is not 
present when his own performance or remuneration is discussed, and no 
Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration. The Committee 
is required to meet at least twice per year. During this financial year the 
Committee met three times.
Key responsibilities
 – Making recommendations to the Board, within the agreed terms of 
reference, on Keller’s framework of executive remuneration. 
 – Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits 
for each of the Executive Directors, including performance share 
awards, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and 
compensation payments.
 – Ensuring that performance-related elements are transparent, 
stretching and rigorously applied.
 – Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level.
 – Approval of share awards.
*
 Before exceptional items
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report
Summary of Directors’ remuneration policy report
The remuneration policy was approved at the AGM in May 2014. Provided for information only are the details of the policy that were referenced 
in Committee activities over the past reporting year which includes the Remuneration policy table, the recruitment remuneration arrangements, 
Executive Director service contracts and terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors. The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, 
can be found at www.keller.co.uk.
Remuneration policy table
Element
Purpose and link
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
Fixed cash compensation, 
dependent upon experience 
and responsibilities.
Sufficiently competitive to 
ensure adequate retention.
Sufficient for incentives to 
be fully variable.
Reviewed annually, 
effective 1 January.
Periodically benchmarked.
Pay and conditions 
throughout the Group 
taken into account when 
determining any increase.
No maximum, but 
positioned broadly at 
the median.
Increases are not expected 
to exceed average increases 
for the wider workforce, 
unless a change in scope or 
complexity of role applies.
None.
Annual bonus
Short-term cash incentive 
up to 100% of salary based 
on achievement of annual 
financial and personal 
strategic objectives.
Medium-term incentive: 
any bonus in excess of 
100% of salary (up to 
a maximum of 150% of 
salary) is deferred for 
three years and payout 
linked to ongoing share 
price performance.
Drives and rewards 
annual performance.
Part deferral, together 
with link to share price 
(see Operation column) 
focuses participants 
on medium-term 
performance and 
supports alignment 
with shareholders.
The mix of financial and 
personal strategic 
objectives, together with 
Group performance, 
ensures an appropriate 
broad focus on different 
elements of Company 
performance.
Performance measures 
and weightings are set at 
the start of the year to 
reflect business priorities.
Targets are reviewed 
annually and relate to 
financial and non-financial 
targets in line with the 
business plan.
At the end of the year, the 
Remuneration Committee 
determines the extent to 
which targets have been 
achieved.
Any bonus above 100% of 
salary is deferred (satisfied 
in cash, adjusted in line with 
share price movements 
and dividends paid over the 
three-year deferral period, 
commencing on the last 
day of the year to which 
the bonus relates).
Bonuses are subject to 
clawback in situations of 
material misstatement, 
error or gross misconduct.
For maximum 
performance
– 150% of salary
For threshold performance
– 0% of salary
Bonus up to 100% of salary 
for very strong 
performance.
Payouts between 0% 
and 100% of salary are 
determined broadly on a 
straight-line basis such that 
the payout for 
performance in line with 
budget (‘target’) is likely to 
be in the range of 35%-55% 
of maximum.
Any bonus in excess of 
100% of salary only payable 
for genuinely exceptional 
performance.
At least 70% based on financial 
performance.
Measures may include (but are 
not limited to): 
– Profit before tax (‘PBT’)
– Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
– Average net debt target
–  Personal strategic objectives.
Targets will be adjusted to take 
account of major acquisitions.
Payment potential for personal 
strategic objectives is capped at 
50% of the potential payout if PBT 
or EPS targets are not triggered.
Bonuses may be reduced by up 
to 10% if pre-defined ‘lead’ safety 
targets are not delivered. 
In addition, the Committee has 
discretion to reduce bonuses 
(down to zero, if appropriate) in 
exceptional circumstances to take 
into account factors adversely 
affecting the Company’s reputation. 55
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Element
Purpose and link
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Variable long-term 
remuneration paid 
in shares.
Focuses on long-term 
financial performance 
as well as stock market 
outperformance, 
through targets based on 
EPS growth and relative 
total shareholder return 
(‘TSR’).
Retention through 
delivery of potentially 
significant deferred 
remuneration.
A considerable part of 
potential remuneration 
is linked to long-term 
Group performance.
Retention of vested shares 
(linked to shareholding 
guidelines) enables 
meaningful shareholdings 
to be built up, aligning 
interests of senior 
managers and 
shareholders.
Award released after 
three years.
Performance measured 
over three financial years.
Any dividends paid may 
accrue over the vesting 
period and would be 
paid only on those shares 
that vest.
Awards are subject to 
clawback in situations of 
material misstatement, 
error or gross misconduct.
Normal award of 100% 
of base annual salary 
each year.
Up to 200% of salary 
where the Committee 
determines that 
exceptional circumstances 
exist (e.g. on recruitment).
25% of an award vests 
for threshold performance, 
rising on a straight-line 
basis to full vesting.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject 
to continued employment and 
performance against two equally-
weighted measures, which are 
currently as follows:
–  EPS growth measured on a point 
to point basis over the three-year 
performance period;
–  TSR relative to a relevant peer 
group over the three-year 
performance period.
The Committee will review the 
targets prior to each grant to 
ensure that they continue to be 
well aligned with the delivery of 
Company strategy.
Pension
Salary supplement, defined 
benefit plan and defined 
contribution plan.
Provides for employee 
welfare and retirement 
needs.
Defined benefit (‘DB’) 
plan in the UK closed to 
future benefit accrual 
in 2006.
Replaced with lower-risk 
defined contribution 
(‘DC’) plans.
Executives can elect 
to receive either a DC 
contribution or a salary 
supplement of equivalent 
cost to the Company.
No formal maximum, but 
no plans to exceed current 
percentages of basic salary.
None.
Other benefits
Company car or car 
allowance; private health 
care; life assurance; 
and long-term disability 
insurance.
Access to company car to 
facilitate effective travel.
Insurance benefits to 
support the individual and 
their family to minimise 
disruption to day-to-day 
business, e.g. from illness.
Benefits currently include, 
but are not limited to a car 
and payment of its 
operating expenses, or car 
allowance; private health 
care; life assurance; and 
long-term disability 
insurance.
Benefits provided through 
third-party providers.
It is not anticipated that the 
cost of benefits provided 
will materially exceed the 
level in recent years. 
The Committee retains 
the discretion to approve 
a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances, e.g. relocation.
None.
Notes to the policy table
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Group’s plans for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial 
priorities. Performance targets are set annually to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment 
in a given year.
The Committee believes that EPS and TSR continue to be appropriate measures of long-term performance for Keller. EPS provides a link to long-term 
financial performance and is highly visible internally, while TSR provides strong alignment with shareholder interests. EPS targets will be reviewed and 
confirmed prior to each grant, taking account of analyst estimates, historical performance and EPS performance ranges used at other FTSE250 companies. 
The TSR target for full vesting has been determined on the basis of an historical analysis of the median to upper quartile spread and is in line with typical 
market practice for a company of Keller’s size. The Committee retains discretion to adjust this target for future awards should circumstances change. 
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an outstanding PSP Award or bonus would not achieve its original purpose without 
alteration, the Committee has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new conditions are materially no less challenging than when originally imposed. 
Such discretion could be used to adjust appropriately for the impact of material acquisitions or disposals, or for exceptional and unforeseen events outside 
the control of the management team. The application of any such discretion would have regard to the Committee’s practice of ensuring the stability of 
measures and targets throughout the business cycle.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 56
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy report continued
Shareholding guidelines
To reflect the importance the Committee places on aligning their interests with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to hold shares with a value 
equivalent to 100% of salary. Executive Directors are required to retain 50% net of tax of shares acquired on vesting of share Awards until the required 
holding is attained.
Awards under previous remuneration policies
Any awards or remuneration-related commitments made to Directors under previous remuneration policies will continue to be honoured.
Details of the policy on fees paid to Non-executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees.
To attract and retain NEDs of the highest 
calibre with broad commercial and other 
experience relevant to the Company.
Non-executive Directors do not 
participate in any incentive scheme.
Fee levels are reviewed annually, with any 
adjustments effective 1 January.
The determination of fees, including that 
of the Chairman, has been delegated by 
the Board to the Executive Directors, 
who are guided by independent surveys of 
fees paid to NEDS of similar companies.
The Chairman is paid a single, 
consolidated fee.
The Non-executive Directors are paid 
a basic fee, plus additional fees for the 
chairing of a Board Committee and to 
the Senior Independent Director, which 
reflects the time commitment and 
responsibilities of their roles.
No maximum, but positioned broadly 
at median.
It is not expected that increases will 
exceed those for the wider workforce 
or market NED fee inflation rates. 
However, in the event that there is a 
material change in the complexity, 
responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a non-executive role, 
the Board has overall discretion to make 
an appropriate adjustment to fee levels.
Aggregate fees are subject to the limit 
in the Company’s Articles of £500,000.
Fees for the year commencing 1 January 
2016 are set out in the annual report 
on remuneration.
None.
Recruitment remuneration arrangements
In the case of appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package 
with our remuneration policy, which may include elements outlined in the policy table above.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in 
the best interests of both Keller and its shareholders and will seek not to pay more than is necessary for this purpose. The Committee may make an award 
in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-like basis, which may be awarded 
in addition to the remuneration structure outlined in the table above. In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance 
conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met. The Committee may also rely on exemption 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules 
to facilitate such a buy out if required. 
Internal promotions to the Board
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Remuneration Committee will apply the policy consistently as for 
external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the 
Company will continue to honour these arrangements. Incentive opportunities for below Board level employees are typically no higher than Executive 
Directors, but measures may vary.
Non-executive Director recruitment
In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will utilise the policy as set out in the table above.
All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement, the dates of which are set out below.
Unexpired term of contract table
Director Date of engagement letter Unexpired term (months as at 29 February 2016)
Ruth Cairnie 8 April 2010 (renewed on 30 May 2013) 2 months
Roy Franklin 17 July 2007 (and 28 July 2009 as Chairman, renewed on 1 August 2015
1
) 5 months
Chris Girling 1 1 February 201 1 (renewed on 14 January 2014) 12 months
Nancy Tuor Moore 26 June 2014 15 months
Paul Withers 17 December 2012 (renewed on 16 December 2015) 33 months
1
 Roy Franklin’s engagement was renewed for a period of 12 months.
The Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plans or pension arrangements. 
Terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors
The appointment of Non-executive Directors is for a fixed term of three years for the first two terms, and annually renewable for up to three years 
afterwards. The appointment may be terminated by either party on three months’ notice. There are no provisions on payment for early termination in 
letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors and service contracts of executives are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting. 57
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Service contracts and exit payment policy
In accordance with general market practice, it is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for 
a maximum of one year’s notice. 
Service contracts between the Company (or other companies in the Group) and individuals who served as Executive Directors at any time during the year 
are summarised below. All are rolling contracts. Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.
Director Date of service contract Notice period Termination payment
Alain Michaelis 14 May 2015 12 months Maximum of basic annual salary plus the fair 
value of benefits for the unexpired portion of the 
notice period, subject to mitigation
See below for treatment of incentives on 
termination in varying circumstances
James Hind 16 May 2003
Wolfgang Sondermann
1
12 February 1998 (modified by memoranda  
of employment dated 5 March 2004; 
20 December 201 1 and 9 September 2015)
Justin Atkinson
2
6 March 2003
1
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s service contract is with Keller Holding GmbH.
2
 Justin Atkinson retired from the Board on 14 May 2015 and his employment with the Company terminated on 31 December 2015.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants. 
The table below summarises how the Awards under the annual bonus and PSP arrangements are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final 
treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion:
Event Time of vesting Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual bonus
Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable.
‘Good leaver’
1
, Death,  
Change of Control
On termination A pro-rata bonus may become payable for the period up to the termination date. 
Performance targets will continue to apply.
Performance Share Plan
Resignation Awards lapse Not applicable.
Death As soon as practicable The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based 
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved at the relevant date.
‘Good leaver’
1
Normal vesting date The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based 
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved over the full 
performance period, and the proportion of the performance period worked.
Change of control Within one month of  
the relevant event
The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based 
on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved at the relevant date, 
and the proportion of the performance period worked.
1
  ‘Good leaver’ is defined as a participant ceasing to be employed by the Group by reason of injury or disability, ill health, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the employer, or any 
other reason that the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement (under statute or otherwise) to additional 
amounts, which would need to be met. In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, 
for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to 
enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including (but not limited to) 
settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and/or consultancy arrangements. These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee 
believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so. 
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 58
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual remuneration report
The following section provides details of how Keller’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2015. 
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited information)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015:
Alain Michaelis James Hind Wolfgang Sondermann
5
Justin Atkinson
6
2015 
£
2014 
£
2015 
£
2014 
£
2015 
£
2014 
£
2015 
£
2014 
£
Salary 315 – 340 330 313 345 172 468
Taxable benefits
1
10 – 13 13 5 13 6 16
Pension benefit
2
57 – 61 60 50 57 51 140
Single-year variable
3
270 – 292 109 269 102 204 156
Multiple-year variable
4
– – 236 612 235 688 328 850
Total 652 – 942 1,124 872 1,205 761 1,630
1
  Taxable benefits consist primarily of a car and payment of its operating expenses or car allowance of £15,000 for Alain Michaelis and £12,000 and £5,490 for James Hind and Wolfgang 
Sondermann respectively); private health care; life assurance; and long-term disability insurance. 
2
 See table below for a breakdown of pension benefits.
3
 See Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance on page 60 for further details.
4
  PSP Awards reflect those vesting based on performance to 31 December 2015. The market price on the date of vesting is currently unknown; the value is estimated using the average market 
value over the last quarter of 2015 of 888,69p. See 2013 PSP vesting on page 61 for further details.
5
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s salary is paid locally in euro. The 2014 and 2015 totals are calculated in GBP using the average currency conversion rate applicable to those years.
6
  Justin Atkinson retired as CEO and from the Board on 14 May 2015. The table above sets out his salary, taxable benefits and pension benefit to that date. The single year variable (annual 
bonus) was pro-rated to 30 June 2015.
Retirement of CEO
Justin Atkinson retired as CEO and from the Board on 14 May 2015 and his employment with the Company was terminated on 31 December 2015. 
Justin served 12 months’ notice under his contract of employment from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015 and during his notice period continued to 
receive his contractual salary, benefits in kind, salary contributions in lieu of pension and car allowance. Justin’s salary, benefits in kind, salary in lieu of pension 
and car allowance for the period from 15 May 2015 to 31 December 2015 totalled £407,000. He also received from the Company a contribution of £20,656 
plus VAT towards professional adviser’s costs and a contribution of £40,000 plus VAT in respect of outplacement service fees, to be used in building a 
Non-executive Director portfolio. Justin’s payment under the 2015 annual bonus scheme has been pro-rated up to 30 June 2015, the date he went on 
garden leave and no Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) Award was awarded to him for 2015. 
Justin will be treated as a ‘Good Leaver’ under the PSP and his 2013 and 2014 Awards under the PSP will vest based on the extent to which performance 
conditions have been achieved over the full performance period and the proportion of the performance period worked. As disclosed in the 2013 Directors’ 
remuneration report, £118,164 of Justin’s 2013 bonus was deferred for three years commencing on 31 December 2013, and is to be satisfied in cash and 
adjusted in line with share price movements. This payment shall be calculated and paid in accordance with the applicable annual bonus scheme rules in or 
around March 2017. No further payments will be made to Justin in connection with his loss of office. 
Recruitment of CEO
As announced on 23 March 2015, Alain Michaelis was appointed to the Board and as CEO with effect from 14 May 2015. The Committee received 
independent advice from its remuneration consultants, Kepler, on benchmarking for the appointment of an external candidate and from its corporate 
lawyers, DLA Piper, on governance and best practice. Alain’s salary package meets the criteria set out in the Company’s approved remuneration policy 
comprising base salary of £500,000, pension of 18% of salary, a car allowance of £15,000, together with benefits including private health care, life assurance 
and long-term disability insurance benefits. Performance-related pay comprises an annual bonus of up to 150% salary (max) and eligibility to participate in 
the long-term incentive plan. An exceptional award of 200% of salary under the long-term incentive plan was made on appointment. Going forward, our 
remuneration policy specifies normal awards of 100% of base salary per annum. No ‘buy-out’ of existing incentive arrangements was required or made. 59
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Total pension entitlements (audited information)
The changes during the year in the accrued pension entitlements of Justin Atkinson under the Keller Group Pension Scheme and of Wolfgang Sondermann 
under the defined benefit (DB) pension arrangements operated by Keller Grundbau GmbH are shown in the table below. The amount shown as accrued 
pension at the end of the year is that which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of the year.
Justin was a member of the Keller Group Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’) until 31 December 2015. The Scheme provides a pension based upon a 
percentage of final salary and pensions for dependents on death in service or following retirement. The table below shows Justin’s accrued Scheme benefits. 
The Scheme closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2006, since when he has received a salary supplement in lieu of a Company 
contribution to an alternative pension arrangement equivalent to 30% of salary. 
The salary supplement is not taken into account in determining bonuses or any other form of remuneration. 
Executive Director
Accrued 
pension 
31 December 
2015
£000
Accrued
pension
31 December 
2014
£000
Increase in
accrued benefit 
(net of inflation
and Directors’ 
contributions) 
£000
Value of
DB scheme 
benefits
£000
Pension 
allowance/DC 
contribution
£000
Total pension 
included in single 
figure table 
£000
Alain Michaelis n/a – – – 57 57
James Hind n/a n/a – – 61 61
Wolfgang Sondermann
1
5 5 – 12 50 50
Justin Atkinson
2
109 109 – – 143 51
1
 The normal retirement age for Wolfgang Sondermann is 65.
2
 The normal retirement age for Justin Atkinson is 60.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited information)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the 
prior year:
Total fees
2015 
£
2014 
£
Ruth Cairnie 53,200 52,300
Roy Franklin 162,900 159,700
Chris Girling 53,200 52,300
Nancy Tuor Moore 53,200 26,753
Paul Withers 53,200 52,300
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual remuneration report continued
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2015
Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance
Under the 2015 annual bonus plan, the Executive Directors delivered strongly on both financial targets and their own personal targets, of which  
Alain Michaelis and Justin Atkinson had six and James Hind and Wolfgang Sondermann each had five.
Notably, on the personal objectives, Alain and Justin ensured a smooth transition in the handover of the CEO responsibilities and provided effective 
leadership of the business throughout; James led a successful drive for efficiencies and best practice in plant and equipment costs across the business, 
overseeing the establishment of a Group Procurement function; and Wolfgang continued to lead improvements in the Group’s bid appraisal process,  
to reduce the risk from underperforming contracts.
Leading safety targets were met by each of the Executive Directors; however, the Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the pay-outs under that 
target in recognition of two fatalities in the business in the year.
The overall outcome is an annual bonus pay-out for Executive Directors of between 85% and 88% of salary for 2015. Without the reduction of pay-outs 
made at the Committee’s discretion on leading safety targets, annual bonus pay-outs would have been in the range of 87% and 90%.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the financial performance targets. The financial targets, together with the actual performance 
achieved against each target, are set out in the table below.
Director
2015 performance targets and outcomes
Group
EPS
Group
PBT
Group  
average net debt
Personal 
strategic
objectives Total
Performance % salary Performance % salary Performance % salary % salary % salary
Alain Michaelis
1
Threshold 75p 0% £80m 0% £190m 0% 0% 0%
Target 85p 20% £90m 20%
Stretch 95p 35% £100m 35%
Maximum 115p 50% £120m 50% £160m 20% 30% 150%
Actual³ 84.3p 19% £93m 25% £163m 18% 24%
4
Awarded (after time pro rata) 12% 16% 12% 15% 55%
James Hind
Threshold 75p 0% £80m 0% £190m 0% 0% 0%
Target 85p 20% £90m 20%
Stretch 95p 35% £100m 35%
Maximum 115p 50% £120m 50% £160m 20% 30% 150%
Actual³ 84.3p 19% £93m 25% £163m 18% 24%
4
Awarded 19% 25% 18% 24% 86%
Wolfgang Sondermann
Threshold 75p 0% £80m 0% £190m 0% 0% 0%
Target 85p 20% £90m 20%
Stretch 95p 35% £100m 35%
Maximum 115p 50% £120m 50% £160m 20% 30% 150%
Actual³ 84.3p 19% £93m 25% £163m 18% 24%
4
Awarded 19% 25% 18% 24% 86%
Justin Atkinson
2
Threshold 75p 0% £80m 0% £190m 0% 0% 0%
Target 85p 20% £90m 20%
Stretch 95p 35% £100m 35%
Maximum 115p 50% £120m 50% £160m 20% 30% 150%
Actual³ 84.3p 19% £93m 25% £163m 18% 24%
4
Awarded (after time pro rata) 9% 13% 9% 12% 43%
1
  Pro-rated for the period 14 May 2015 to 31 December 2015.
2
  Pro-rated for the period 1 January 2015 to 30 June 2015. 
3
  At 2015 budget exchange rates before exceptional items.
4
  Pay-outs under leading safety targets were reduced at the discretion of the Committee by 2%. Justin Atkinson elected to receive no pay-out under this target. 61
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2013 PSP vesting
Based on EPS and TSR performance over the three years ended 31 December 2015, the Performance Share Plan Awards made in 2013 will partially vest  
in June 2016, demonstrating good progress in the delivery of the Group’s strategy. Further details, including vesting schedules and performance against each 
of the metrics, are provided in the table below:
Measure Weighting Targets Outcome Vest %
Earnings per share (EPS) 50% 0% vesting below RPI+4% p.a.
30% vesting for RPI+4% p.a.
100% vesting for RPI+9% p.a. or more;
Straight-line vesting between these points
RPI+26.5% p.a. 100%
TSR relative to the constituents 
of the FTSE All-Share Index
50% 0% vesting below median
30% vesting for median 
(50th centile) performance 
100% vesting for upper quintile 
(80th centile) performance;
Straight-line vesting between these points
52nd centile 34.7%
Total PSP vesting 67.3%
The value of these Awards to the individual Executive Directors, as shown in the single figure of total remuneration, is therefore as follows:
Executive Director Interests held Vesting %
Interests 
vesting Date vested
Estimated
market price
1
 
Estimated
value (£000)
James Hind 39,426 67.3% 26,534 June 2016 888.69p 236
Wolfgang Sondermann 39,271 67.3% 26,429 June 2016 888.69p 235 
Justin Atkinson 54,801 67.3% 36,881 June 2016 888.69p 328 
1
 The market price on the date of vesting is currently unknown; the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2015, of 888.69p. 
Scheme interests awarded in 2015 (audited information)
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2015 and will end on 31 December 2017. 
Awards will vest on 6 March 2018, subject to meeting performance conditions. Alain Michaelis’ award will vest on 20 May 2018, subject to meeting 
performance conditions. 
Executive Director Date of grant
Shares over which 
awards granted
Market price at 
date of award 
Face value 
(£000)
James Hind 6 March 2015 65,957 1032p 681
Alain Michaelis 20 May 2015 98,103 1019p 1,000
Vesting of the PSP Awards is dependent on the development of EPS and TSR relative to the FTSE250 Index (excluding investment trusts) with equal 
weighting over a three-year performance period. There is no retest provision. Details of the vesting schedules are provided below:
0%
25%
100%
15% 5%
Keller three-year EPS CAGR (p.a.)
EPS vesting schedule (50% of award)
% award vesting
0%
25%
100%
10% 0%
Keller three-year TSR % outperformance vs. FTSE250 x IT (p.a.)
Relative TSR vesting schedule (50% of award)
% award vesting
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual remuneration report continued
Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to past Directors during the year. 
Exit payments made in the year
The termination arrangements for Justin Atkinson have been described on page 58. The Company paid no other exit payments to Directors during the year.
Directors’ interests (audited information)
A table setting out the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2015 is set out below.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any other Group company. Since 31 December 2015, there have been no changes in the 
Directors’ interests in shares.
Director
Ordinary  
shares at 
31 December 
2015
Ordinary
shares at
31 December  
2014
Alain Michaelis 10,008 –
James Hind
132,166 93,258
Wolfgang Sondermann 180,000 130,000
Ruth Cairnie 6,000 6,000
Roy Franklin
6,000 6,000
Chris Girling 3,000 3,000
Paul Withers 20,000 20,000
Nancy Tuor Moore – –
Justin Atkinson 142,657
1
238,586
1
 Justin retired as CEO and from the Board on 14 May 2015, and his holding is as at that date.
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements (audited information)
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2015. 
Shares held Options held
Requirement 
met?
Owned 
outright or 
vested
Vested but 
subject to 
holding period
Unvested and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Vested but not 
exercised
Shareholding 
requirement % 
salary/fee
Current 
shareholding %
1
salary/fee
Alain Michaelis 10,008 – 98,103 – 100% 178% Yes
James Hind 132,166 – 133,615 – 100% 642% Yes
Wolfgang Sondermann 180,000 – 69,724 – 100% 655% Yes
Justin Atkinson
2
142,657 – 94,778 – 100% 409% Yes
1
 Reflects closing price on 31 December 2015 of 822.03p.
2
 Justin retired as CEO and from the Board on 14 May 2015, and his holding is at that date. 63
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ interests in options under long-term incentives (audited information)
Details of Directors’ PSP Awards are set out in the table below:
Awards
held at
1 January
2015
Awards
granted
during
the year
Awards
exercised
during
the year
Awards
lapsed
during
the year
Awards
held at
31 December
2015
Exercise
price
(per exercise)
Date from
which
exercisable Expiry date
Alain Michaelis
20 May 2015 – 98,103 – – 98,103 100.0p 20/05/18 19/1 1/18
James Hind 
1 March 2012 73,641 – 73,641 – – 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 39,426 – – – 39,426 100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 28,232 – – – 28,232 100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
6 March 2015 – 65,957 – – 65,957 100.0p 06/03/18 05/09/18
Wolfgang Sondermann 
1 March 2012 82,907 – 82,907 – – 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 39,271 – – – 39,271 100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 30,453 – – – 30,453 100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
Justin Atkinson
1 March 2012 102,340 – 102,340 – – 100.0p 01/03/15 31/08/15
20 June 2013 54,801 – – – 54,801
1
100.0p 20/06/16 19/12/16
7 March 2014 39,977 – – – 39,977
1
100.0p 07/03/17 06/09/17
1
 Justin retired as CEO and from the Board on 14 May 2015, and his holdings are as at that date. 
The performance conditions for Awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are detailed on page 55. The performance conditions for the 2015 Award are 
detailed on page 61.
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE250 Index (excluding investment 
trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Index. These indices have been selected for consistency with the comparator groups used to measure TSR performance for 
outstanding as well as 2016 PSP awards. 
The graph looks at the value, by the end of 2015, of £100 invested in Keller on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in each index. 
The table below details the Chief Executive’s ‘single figure’ remuneration over the same period.
2009 2010
1
2011
1
2012 2013 2014 2015
2
 
Chief Executive single figure of remuneration (£000) 891 550 562 951 1,870 1,630 1,420
Annual bonus as a % of maximum opportunity 42% 0% 0% 57% 84% 22% 85%
PSP vesting as a % of maximum opportunity 31% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100% 67.3%
1
 The CEO waived any entitlement to a bonus in 2010 and 201 1.
2
  The CEO single figure of remuneration has been calculated using Justin Atkinson’s emoluments for the period from 1 January 2015 to 14 May 2015 and Alain Michaelis’ emoluments for the 
period 14 May 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Keller               FTSE250 (excluding investment trusts)               FTSE All-Share
Historical TSR performance 
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over the seven years to 31 December 2015 (£)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2012 Dec 2011 Dec 2010 Dec 2009 Dec 2008
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual remuneration report continued
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration
The table following shows the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in 
remuneration for our UK senior management population, who have been selected for this comparison due to the UK employment location and the 
structure of total remuneration – most of our management team are able to earn an annual bonus as well as receiving a base salary.
The pay for all other employees is calculated using the increase in the earnings of full-time employees. The analysis excludes part-time employees and is 
based on a consistent set of employees, i.e. the same individuals appear in the 2014 and 2015 populations. 
Chief Executive
% change
1
 
2014-15
All other 
employees
% change  
2014-15
Base salary 5% 3%
Taxable benefits 3% 16%
Annual bonus 204% 78%
Total 35% 27%
1
  Calculated using Justin Atkinson’s emoluments for the period from 1 January 2015 to 14 May 2015 and Alain Michaelis’ emoluments for the period 14 May 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends) and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 
31 December 2015, along with the percentage changes.
2015
£m
2014
£m
%
change
Distribution to shareholders 19.1 18.0 6.1%
Employee remuneration 402.2 404.5 (0.5)%
The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 18.3p per ordinary share. 
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2016
Base salaries in 2016
In line with the remuneration policy, the Committee reviewed pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group. The salaries of Alain Michaelis, James Hind and 
Wolfgang Sondermann were increased by 3% commensurate with general pay increases of 3% across the Group. 
Executive Director
Salary 
for 2016
Salary 
for 2015
Increase 
from 2015
Alain Michaelis £515,000 £500,000 3%
James Hind £350,500 £340,400 3%
Wolfgang Sondermann
1
£324,214 £355,402 3%
1
 Wolfgang Sondermann’s salary is paid locally in euro. The 2015 and 2016 totals are calculated in GBP using the average currency conversion rate applicable to those years. 65
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Pension
Wolfgang is a member of the DB pension arrangements established by Keller Grundbau GmbH. His accrued benefits under these arrangements are 
included in the table on page 59. Wolfgang is also a member of a DC scheme and will continue to receive contributions of 17% of salary. 
James and Alain will continue to receive a salary supplement each totalling 18% of salary in 2016. 
Annual bonus for 2016
The financial targets for the 2016 annual bonus are based on the same performance metrics as in 2015. The actual targets for 2016 are considered to be 
commercially sensitive and accordingly they are not disclosed in this report, but will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2016 remuneration report.
2016 annual bonus weightings (% of salary)
Group EPS Group PBT
Group average 
net debt
Personal 
strategic 
objectives Total
Alain Michaelis 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
James Hind 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
Wolfgang Sondermann 50% 50% 20% 30% 150%
For bonuses paid in respect of 2016, the Committee continues to have discretion to reduce bonuses in exceptional circumstances (down to zero, if 
appropriate) to take into account factors adversely impacting the Company’s reputation. This discretion is in addition to the safety underpin whereby 
bonuses may be reduced by up to 10% if pre-defined ‘lead’ safety targets are not delivered.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) for 2016
The performance conditions for PSP Awards made in 2016 will be unchanged compared to the 2015 Awards; the vesting schedules are as shown in the 
charts on page 63. 
Chairman and Non-executive Director fees
With effect from 1 January 2016, fees payable to the Chairman of the Board and the basic fee payable to each Non-executive Director were increased by 
3%. The Chairman’s fee is £167,800 per annum and the basic fee payable to each Non-executive Director is £47,000 per annum. An additional payment of 
£7,500 is made to those Non-executive Directors who additionally act as Chairman of a Committee and the Senior Independent Director. The additional 
fee remains unchanged from 2015.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors’ remuneration for the year were 
being considered:
 – Ruth Cairnie
 – Chris Girling
 – Nancy Tuor Moore (appointed with effect from 24 September 2015)
 – Paul Withers
During the year, the Committee received assistance from Jackie Holman (HR Director until 30 November 2015), Serge Zimmerlin (HR Director from 
1 December 2015) and Kerry Porritt (Company Secretary) on salary increases and bonus awards, and policy and governance matters respectively. In 
determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2015 and 2016, the Committee has consulted the Chairman and the Chief Executive, about its 
proposals, except (in the case of the CEO) in relation to his own remuneration. No Director is involved in determining their own remuneration.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest (other than as a shareholder), conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or 
day-to-day involvement in running the business. Given their diverse backgrounds, the Board believes that the members of the Committee are able to 
offer an informed and balanced view on executive remuneration issues. 
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual remuneration report continued
External advisers
During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’), an independent firm of remuneration consultants appointed 
by the Committee after consultation with the Board. In 2015, Kepler provided independent advice on remuneration policy and the external remuneration 
environment; benchmarking data; and provided remuneration advice in the context of CEO succession planning. 
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not advise the Company on any other issues. Kepler’s total fees for the 
provision of remuneration services in 2015 were £41,881 on the basis of time spent. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Kepler’s parent company, Mercer Ltd, provides 
unrelated advice to Keller management in the area of Leadership Assessment which is managed completely separately. Kepler has confirmed that the 
appropriate segregation of personnel and information is in place to safeguard the independence of Kepler.
The Company’s corporate lawyers, DLA Piper LLP, provided legal advice on CEO succession matters. Fees in 2015 relating to this matter amounted to £2,736. 
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent.
Statement of shareholder voting
The following table sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration report at the 2015 AGM and the Remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM:
Votes for Votes against
Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld
Remuneration report 2015 40,443,065 78.84% 10,855,829 21.16% 51,298,594 3,746,975
Remuneration policy 2014 47,818,830 97.87% 1,042,595 2.13% 48,861,425 575,571
During 2015, the Committee used its discretion to make an exceptional performance share award of 200% of salary to the Finance Director, James Hind, 
to provide for Executive Director continuity during the leadership transition. The Committee considers that this award, which is permitted under our 
approved remuneration policy, was in the interests of shareholders.
The annual remuneration report received 79% support from shareholders, reflecting the different view of a minority of shareholders and ISS. The Committee 
takes seriously the views of all shareholders and will consider very carefully any future exceptional award.
Ruth Cairnie
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29 February 2016 67
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This report is required to be produced by law. The Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules and Listing Rules also require us to make certain disclosures.
The Corporate governance statement, including the Audit Committee report, 
form part of this Directors’ report and is incorporated by reference. Disclosures 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced where 
appropriate. Taken together, the Strategic report on pages 4 to 39 and this 
Directors’ report fulfil the requirement of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 
4.1.5R to provide a Management report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation
*
 of £95.7m (2014: 
£85.1m), are set out on pages 72 to 105. The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 18.3p per share to be paid on 10 June 2016, to members on the 
register at the close of business on 20 May 2016. An interim dividend of 8.8p 
per share was paid on 4 September 2015. The total dividend for the year of 
27.1p (2014: 25.2p) will amount to £19.1m (2014: £18.0m). 
Going concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources 
to continue operating for a period of 12 months from the date of this report 
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound 
financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and 
can reasonably expect sufficient facilities to be available to meet the Group’s 
foreseeable cash requirements. Further information is provided in note 23 
to the accounts and the Financial review.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, 
the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a 
three-year period.
i)  The Board selected the three-year period as: 
 a.  the Group’s business planning and budget processes are carried out 
over a three-year period which provides the relevant estimates; and 
 b.  three years is a reasonable approximation of the maximum time taken 
from procuring a project to completion and therefore reflects our 
current revenue earning cycle.
ii)  The review included cash flows and other key financial ratios over the 
three-year period. These metrics were subject to downside sensitivity 
analysis which involved flexing a number of the main assumptions 
underlying the forecast both individually and in unison. This downside 
sensitivity analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact on the 
Group if both the effects of the global financial crisis were to be repeated 
and there was a substantial charge arising from a contract dispute. The 
review also made certain assumptions about the normal level of capital 
recycling likely to occur and considered whether additional financing 
facilities would be required.
The Directors’ assessment has been made with reference to the Group’s 
current position and prospects, the Group’s strategy, the Board’s risk 
appetite and the Group’s principal risks and how these are managed, as 
detailed in the Strategic report.
On the basis of the above and other matters considered and reviewed by 
the Board during the year, the Board has reasonable expectations that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the next three years. In doing so, it is recognised that such future 
assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, 
therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Financial instruments
Full details can be found in note 23 to the financial statements and in the 
Financial review.
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events in the period from 1 January 2016 
to the date of signing the accounts.
Change of control
The Group’s main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon 15 days’ 
notice being given to the Group, lenders may exercise their discretion to 
require immediate repayment of the loans on a change of control and 
cancel all commitments under the agreement.
Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal course of 
business, include change of control provisions. There are no agreements providing 
for compensation for the Directors or employees on a change of control.
Transactions with related parties
Apart from transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries and joint 
operations, which are related parties, there have been no related party 
transactions during the year.
Directors and their interests
The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors 
of the Company can be found on page 45. The interests of the Directors 
holding office at the end of the year in the issued Ordinary Share capital of 
the Company and any interests in its performance share plan are given in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 62 and 63.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a 
service contract or a contract for services, with the Company or any of its 
operating companies during the year.
The Company’s Articles of Association indemnify the Directors out of the assets 
of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution 
of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. The Company maintains insurance for Directors and Officers in respect 
of liabilities which could arise on the discharge of their duties.
Powers of the Directors
The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise 
all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary 
resolution of the Company. Specific treatment of Directors’ powers 
regarding allotment and repurchase of shares is provided under separate 
headings below.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of 
special resolution.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number. Subject 
to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of 
shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a 
member (or members) entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following 
retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a 
general meeting. In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a 
vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at 
the next AGM. A Director may be removed by the Company as provided 
for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association (for example bankruptcy, or resignation), or by a 
special resolution of the Company. All Directors stand for re-election on 
an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
Employees
The Group employed approximately 10,000 people at the end of the year. 
Employment policy
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment 
made by disabled persons, having regard for their respective aptitudes and 
abilities. The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment 
of those who become disabled during their employment and the provision 
of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate. 
Information on the Group’s approach to employee involvement, equal 
opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be found in the 
Resources and relationships report on pages 30 and 31.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year. Keller has an established 
policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or 
candidate in any part of the world.
*
 Before exceptional items
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Directors’ report continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company is 
set out on page 31 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
Research and development
The Group continues to have in-house design, development and manufacturing 
facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers to develop new and more 
effective methods of solving problems of ground conditions and behaviour. 
Most of the specialised ground improvement equipment used in the business 
is designed and built in-house and, where applicable, the development costs 
are included in the cost of the equipment. Further information on our latest 
activities can be found on page 7 of the Strategic report.
Share capital
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 24: Share 
capital and reserves. The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which 
is listed on the London Stock Exchange (‘Ordinary Shares’). Ordinary Shares 
carry no right to a fixed income; and each Ordinary Share carries the right 
to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association 
and the prevailing law. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights and 
the transfer of securities. No person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28: Share-based 
payments. Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee Benefit Trust are 
not voted.
Repurchase of shares
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM (14 May 2015) 
to buy back up to 7,309,974 Ordinary Shares. The authority remains outstanding 
until the conclusion of the 2016 AGM but could be varied or withdrawn by 
agreement of shareholders at an intervening General Meeting. The minimum 
price which must be paid for each Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the 
maximum price is the higher of an amount equal to not more than 5% above 
the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived 
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days 
immediately before the purchase is made and an amount equal to the higher 
of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest 
current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where 
the purchase is carried out.
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, this authority.
Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication
Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the Directors to allot 
new shares up to a nominal amount of £2,375,660, equivalent to approximately 
one-third of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) as 
at 2 March 2015 and to disapply pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £356,349, representing approximately 5% of the Company’s issued 
share capital as at 2 March 2015. 
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, these authorities.
Substantial shareholdings
At 29 February 2016, the Company had been notified in accordance with 
chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority of the following voting rights of shareholders in the Company:
Ordinary Shares
Number of 
Company’s  
total
Percentage  
of the
voting  
rights
Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited 6,261,390 8.78%
Old Mutual Plc 4,946,626 6.97%
Schroders plc 3,632,097 5.07%
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 3,557,757 4.96%
Norges Bank 2,973,272 4.17%
Auditors
The Board has decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed as the Group’s 
auditors for the year ending 31 December 2016 and a resolution to appoint 
KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The 2016 AGM of the Company will take place at the offices of Investec, 
2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP at 11.00 a.m. on Tuesday 24 May 
2016. The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the meeting is set 
out in the Notice of AGM.
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information 
to the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document 
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or 
liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements 
with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual 
Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report and 
Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Information included in the Directors’ report
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate 
governance statement can be found in the Directors’ report in the sections 
headed ‘Substantial shareholdings’, ‘Repurchase of shares’, ‘Amendment of 
the Company’s Articles of Association’, ‘Appointment and replacement of 
Directors’ and ‘Powers of the Directors’ and is incorporated into this 
Corporate governance section by reference. 
Other information
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
report confirm that, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a 
Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
Kerry Porritt
Company Secretary
29 February 2016
Registered Office:
5th floor, 1 Sheldon Square
London W2 6TT
Registered in England No. 2442580 69
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
(EU) and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU;
 – for the Company financial statements, state whether the applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements; and 
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation as a whole; and
 – the Directors’ report, including content contained by reference, includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position and performance of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Board confirms that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of 
the Company. 
Signed on behalf of the Board
Alain Michaelis 
Chief Executive Officer
James Hind 
Finance Director
29 February 2016
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Independent Auditor’s report
To the members of Keller Group plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Keller Group plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 72 to 105. In our opinion:
 
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union; 
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of 
material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Accounting for construction contracts
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 79 (accounting policy) and 
pages 83 and 89 (financial statements disclosures).
 – The risk: Contract accounting is considered to be an ongoing significant 
audit risk as it requires a high degree of estimation and judgement of 
matters such as: the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet 
date on longer term contracts; the costs of the work required to complete 
the contract; and the outcome of claims and variations raised against 
customers and claims raised against the Group by customers or third 
parties, including the provision for the final outcome of a significant historic 
claim, which was recognised as an exceptional item in 2014. Error in any 
of these judgements could result in a material variance in the amount of 
profit or loss recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
 – Our response: Our audit procedures included testing controls over 
contract-related expenditure and assessing the accounting judgments 
applied to a selection of contracts with the greatest impact on the Group’s 
financial results, including those considered to be high risk due to such 
factors as known issues on the contract or the nature of work being 
undertaken. For a selection of those contracts in progress at the balance 
sheet date, we challenged the Group’s assumptions on costs to complete 
the contract through agreeing cost estimates to internal forecasts and to 
sub-contracts and assessing the reliability of the Group’s forecast costs to 
complete by considering historical accuracy on completed contracts. For 
contracts completed by the year end, we assessed subsequent settlement 
of revenue recognised. In respect of claims and variations raised against 
customers, we checked that these were recognised only once agreed 
with the customer. In respect of those claims raised against the Group by 
customers or third parties, on a selection of contracts we: challenged the 
progress on the claims and corroborated explanations provided; considered 
prior experience on settlement of claims; and inspected correspondence 
with the counterparty and with the Group’s legal advisers or insurers. 
We considered the adequacy of contract-related disclosure. In relation 
to the provision held for the significant historic claim we have held 
discussions with the Group’s Directors and challenged their judgements 
on the estimated future costs to incur, including assessment of third-party 
documentation. We considered the adequacy of disclosures of the matter 
and of the related uncertainties.
Carrying value of goodwill 
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 79 (accounting policy) and 
pages 86 and 87 (financial statements disclosures).
 – The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the Group’s significant goodwill 
balances due to prolonged downturn or structural change in the relevant 
construction market. In particular there is increased risk on the balance 
of £57.3m related to Keller Canada where the oil sands business is 
currently experiencing a downturn in investment. A partial impairment 
on this goodwill balance has been recognised during the year. The Group 
estimates recoverable amount based on value-in-use which includes 
significant estimation and judgement in the selection of key inputs for the 
future cash flows, specifically forecast revenue and operating margin 
along with discount rates. 
 – Our response: Our audit procedures included assessing the reasonableness 
of the Group’s assumptions by reference to past performance, externally 
derived data, forecasts for economic factors, and current order book. 
Our valuation specialists assisted in evaluating the assumptions and 
methodologies underlying the discount rates adopted by the Group. 
We considered the sensitivity of the level of headroom available in the 
calculations to reasonably possible changes in assumptions to identify areas 
to focus our testing on. We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about 
the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in 
key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 
£4.5m (2014: £3.9m) determined with reference to a benchmark of Group 
profit before taxation, normalised to exclude this year’s exceptional items as 
disclosed on the face of the income statement, of £95.7m (2014: £85.1m), of 
which it represents 4.7% (2014: 4.6%).
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £0.2m (2014: £0.2m), in addition to other 
identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component 
auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, EMEA, 
Asia and Australia. 
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following 
percentages of the Group’s results: 
 – Group revenue – 88%
 – Group profit and loss before tax – 95%
 – Group profit and loss before exceptional items and taxation – 94%
 – Group total assets – 80%
The remaining 12% of total Group revenue, 5% of Group profit and loss 
before tax and 20% of total Group assets is represented by reporting 
components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of any 
of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets. 
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated 
Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant 
risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant 
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the 
information to be reported back. The Group audit team approved the 
divisional component materialities, which ranged from £0.4m to £3.25m, 
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the 
components. Aside from the audit of the parent company that was 
performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the components 
was performed by the component auditors. 71
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
The Group audit team visited the two largest divisional component locations 
in North America and EMEA. Telephone conference meetings were also 
held with these component auditors and with the component auditors in 
Asia and Australia. At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to 
the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further 
work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the 
component auditor. 
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
is unmodified
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 – the Directors’ statement of viability on page 67, concerning the principal 
risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors’ assessment and 
expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the three years to 
31 December 2018; or 
 – the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of 
the going concern basis of accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are 
required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with 
either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement 
of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 – we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we 
acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider 
that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 – the Corporate governance report does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 – certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 – the Directors’ statements, set out on page 67, in relation to going concern 
and longer-term viability; and 
 – the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 43 relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members as a body and is subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated 
into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
William Meredith (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
29 February 2016
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note
2015
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2015 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 7) 
£m
2015
£m
2014 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
2014
Exceptional 
items 
(note 7) 
£m
2014
£m
Revenue 3 1,562.4 – 1,562.4 1,599.7 – 1,599.7
Operating costs 5 (1,459.0) (38.7) (1,497.7) (1,507.7) (56.7) (1,564.4)
Operating profit 3 103.4 (38.7) 64.7 92.0 (56.7) 35.3
Finance income 8 0.8 – 0.8 1.5 – 1.5
Finance costs 9 (8.5) (0.7) (9.2) (8.4) (0.2) (8.6)
Profit before taxation 95.7 (39.4) 56.3 85.1 (56.9) 28.2
Taxation 10 (33.0) 3.0 (30.0) (29.7) 0.3 (29.4)
Profit/(loss) for the period 62.7 (36.4) 26.3 55.4 (56.6) (1.2)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 61.9 (36.4) 25.5 53.6 (56.6) (3.0)
Non-controlling interests 0.8 – 0.8 1.8 – 1.8
62.7 (36.4) 26.3 55.4 (56.6) (1.2)
Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic 12 86.4p 35.5p 75.3p (4.2)p
Diluted 12 85.4p 35.1p 74.2p (4.2)p
Note
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Profit/(loss) for the period 26.3 (1.2)
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (22.9) (3.8)
Net investment hedge gains 23 1.7 2.0
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity 23 (4.2) (6.1)
Cash flow hedge transfers to income statement 23 4.1 6.1
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 29 0.3 (4.1)
Tax on remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 10 (0.3) 0.2
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (21.3) (5.7)
Total comprehensive income for the period 5.0 (6.9)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 4.3 (8.6)
Non-controlling interests 0.7 1.7
5.0 (6.9)
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 72
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 160.1 183.5
Property, plant and equipment 14 331.8 295.6
Deferred tax assets 10 13.4 10.0
Other assets 15 22.9 19.9
528.2 509.0
Current assets
Inventories 16 47.3 48.6
Trade and other receivables 17 423.2 408.7
Current tax assets 12.6 4.0
Cash and cash equivalents 19 63.1 85.6
546.2 546.9
Total assets 3 1,074.4 1,055.9
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 23 (3.5) (2.7)
Current tax liabilities (6.7) (13.9)
Trade and other payables 20 (373.4) (353.2)
Provisions 21 (34.7) (50.0)
(418.3) (419.8)
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings 23 (242.6) (185.1)
Retirement benefit liabilities 29 (23.1) (25.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (26.7) (19.7)
Provisions 21 (7.1) (23.3)
Other liabilities 22 (22.6) (36.3)
(322.1) (289.8)
Total liabilities 3 (740.4) (709.6)
Net assets 3 334.0 346.3
Equity
Share capital 24 7.3 7.3
Share premium account 38.1 38.1
Capital redemption reserve 24 7.6 7.6
Translation reserve (12.8) 8.3
Other reserve 24 56.9 56.9
Hedging reserve (0.1) –
Retained earnings 233.5 224.5
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 330.5 342.7
Non-controlling interests 3.5 3.6
Total equity 334.0 346.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 February 2016. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Alain Michaelis 
Chief Executive Officer
James Hind 
Finance Director
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015 Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m 
Translation
reserve
£m
Other 
reserve 
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Attributable
to equity
holders of
the parent
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 7.3 38.1 7.6 10.0 56.9 – 247.9 367.8 4.8 372.6
(Loss)/profit for the period – – – – – – (3.0) (3.0) 1.8 (1.2)
Other comprehensive income
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – (3.7) – – – (3.7) (0.1) (3.8)
Net investment hedge gains – – – 2.0 – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity – – – – – (6.1) – (6.1) – (6.1)
Cash flow hedge transfers to  
income statement – – – – – 6.1 – 6.1 – 6.1
Remeasurements of defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – – (4.1) (4.1) – (4.1)
Tax on remeasurements of defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Other comprehensive income 
for the period, net of tax – – – (1.7) – – (3.9) (5.6) (0.1) (5.7)
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – (1.7) – – (6.9) (8.6) 1.7 (6.9)
Dividends – – – – – – (17.4) (17.4) (0.6) (18.0)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – – – (1.0) (1.0) (2.3) (3.3)
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 7.3 38.1 7.6 8.3 56.9 – 224.5 342.7 3.6 346.3
Profit for the period – – – – – – 25.5 25.5 0.8 26.3
Other comprehensive income
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – – (22.8) – – – (22.8) (0.1) (22.9)
Net investment hedge gains – – – 1.7 – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity – – – – – (4.2) – (4.2) – (4.2)
Cash flow hedge transfers to  
income statement – – – – – 4.1 – 4.1 – 4.1
Remeasurements of defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Tax on remeasurements of defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3)
Other comprehensive income 
for the period, net of tax – – – (21.1) – (0.1) – (21.2) (0.1) (21.3)
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – (21.1) – (0.1) 25.5 4.3 0.7 5.0
Dividends – – – – – – (18.3) (18.3) (0.8) (19.1)
Share-based payments – – – – – – 1.8 1.8 – 1.8
At 31 December 2015 7.3 38.1 7.6 (12.8) 56.9 (0.1) 233.5 330.5 3.5 334.0
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 74
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit before exceptional items 103.4 92.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 50.9 48.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.2 1.9
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.3) (0.3)
Other non-cash movements 6.4 8.9
Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.1
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 161.7 150.6
Decrease in inventories 0.5 13.9
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (11.1) 11.2
Decrease in trade and other payables (1.4) (0.1)
Change in provisions, retirement benefit and other non-current liabilities (7.4) (10.2)
Cash generated from operations before exceptional items 142.3 165.4
Cash flows from exceptional items (27.5) –
Cash generated from operations 114.8 165.4
Interest paid (6.6) (10.1)
Income tax paid (44.3) (28.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 63.9 126.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.5 0.5
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.1 3.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (52.5) (5.0)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (74.2) (63.6)
Acquisition of intangible assets (0.8) (0.9)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (121.9) (65.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
New borrowings 71.2 95.3
Repayment of borrowings (9.3) (103.6)
Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.4) (1.2)
Dividends paid (19.1) (18.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 41.4 (27.5)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (16.6) 33.9
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 85.6 50.7
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (6.1) 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 19 62.9 85.6
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015 1 General information
Keller Group plc (‘the parent’ or ‘the Company’) is a company incorporated 
in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling (rounded to the nearest hundred thousand), the 
functional currency of the parent. Foreign operations are included in 
accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
2 Principal accounting policies
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by 
the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU.
The Company prepares its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with FRS101; these are presented on pages 98 to 105.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. The carrying 
value of hedged items are, where relevant, re-measured to fair value in 
respect of the hedged risk. Except as noted below, these accounting policies 
have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated 
financial statements and have been applied consistently by subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern  
basis as set out in the Directors’ report on page 67.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
There is no significant financial impact on the Group financial statements  
of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations that are  
in issue for the financial year ending 31 December 2015:
 – Amendments to IAS 19, ‘Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions’
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 201 1-2013 cycle
 – IFRIC interpretation 21 Levies.
There are no standards, amendments or interpretations adopted by the EU 
that are in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant 
impact on the Group financial statements. The Group is considering the 
impact on the Group financial statements of adopting standards, 
amendments or interpretations not yet adopted by the EU, including IFRS 9, 
‘Financial instruments’; IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’; 
and IFRS 16, ‘Leases’.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the accounts of the  
parent and its subsidiary undertakings (collectively ‘the Group’) made up to 
31 December each year. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. 
Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure to 
variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability to use its 
power over the entity to affect its returns. Where subsidiary undertakings 
were acquired or sold during the year, the accounts include the results for 
the part of the year for which they were subsidiary undertakings using the 
acquisition method of accounting. Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised 
income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint operations
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with other 
parties. These fall under the category of joint operations as defined by  
IFRS 11. In accordance with IFRS 11, the Group accounts for its own share  
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses measured according to the  
terms of the agreements covering the joint operations.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction contracts 
performed during the year on behalf of customers or the value of goods  
or services delivered to customers. In accordance with IAS 11, contract 
revenue and expenses are recognised in proportion to the stage of 
completion of the contract as soon as the outcome of a construction 
contract can be estimated reliably.
The fair value of work done is calculated using the expected final 
contract value, based on contracted values adjusted for the impact of any 
known variations, and the stage of completion, calculated as costs to date 
as a proportion of total expected contract costs. Bid costs are expensed 
as incurred.
In the nature of the Group’s business, the results for the year include 
adjustments to the outcome of construction contracts, including joint 
operations, completed in prior years arising from claims from customers  
or third parties and claims on customers or third parties for variations to  
the original contract.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is made in the  
year in which the Group becomes aware that a claim may arise. 
Income from variations and claims on customers or third parties is only 
recognised once agreed.
Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, full provision for  
this loss is made when the Group becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Revenue in respect of goods and services is recognised as the goods and 
services are delivered.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.  
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are capitalised 
in the balance sheet at the lower of fair value or present value of minimum 
lease payments and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. The capital element of the leasing commitment is included as 
obligations under finance leases. The rentals payable are apportioned 
between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and capital, 
which reduces the outstanding obligation.
Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to contract work in 
progress or operating costs on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at 
closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Income statements and 
cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at 
average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets and 
income statements at closing and average rates of exchange respectively are 
dealt with in other comprehensive income, along with changes in fair values 
of associated net investment hedges. All other exchange differences are 
charged to the income statement. 
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Principal accounting policies continued
The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are:
2015 2014
US dollar: average for period 1.53 1.65
US dollar: period end 1.48 1.55
Canadian dollar: average for period 1.95 1.82
Canadian dollar: period end 2.05 1.81
Euro: average for period 1.38 1.24
Euro: period end 1.36 1.28
Singapore dollar: average for period 2.10 2.09
Singapore dollar: period end 2.09 2.05
Australian dollar: average for period 2.03 1.83
Australian dollar: period end 2.03 1.90
Interest income and expense
All interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement  
in the period in which it is incurred using the effective interest method.
Employee benefit costs
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension arrangements, 
and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes for employees.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of  
the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using  
the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes’ assets. 
As allowed by IAS 19, the Group recognises the current service cost and 
interest on scheme net liabilities in the income statement, and 
remeasurements of defined benefit plans in other comprehensive  
income in full in the period in which they occur.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an  
accruals basis.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the 
deferred tax charge.
Provision is made for current tax on taxable profits for the year. Taxable 
profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable 
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. 
Full provision is made for deferred tax on temporary differences in line  
with IAS 12, ‘Income Taxes’. Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is 
considered likely that they will be utilised against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in  
the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to 
items charged or credited directly to equity or to other comprehensive 
income, in which case the related deferred tax is also dealt with in equity  
or in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual 
value of property, plant and equipment by reference to their estimated 
useful lives using the straight-line method. 
The rates of depreciation used are:
Buildings 2%
Long-life plant and equipment 8%
Short-life plant and equipment 12%
Motor vehicles 25%
Computers 33%
The cost of leased properties is depreciated by equal instalments over the 
period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
Business combinations
The Group accounts for business combinations in accordance with  
IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations (2008)’ using the acquisition method as  
at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred  
to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, costs related to the acquisition 
are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value 
being recognised in profit or loss, unless the change was as a result of new 
information about facts or circumstances existing at the acquisition date 
being obtained during the measurement period, in which case the change is 
recognised in the balance sheet as an adjustment to goodwill. For acquisitions 
before 1 January 2010, transaction costs were capitalised as part of the cost 
of the acquisition. Any contingent consideration payable was recognised at 
fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value 
being recognised in the balance sheet as an adjustment to goodwill.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 2 Principal accounting policies continued
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference between the 
fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value of the identifiable 
net assets of the subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition, is 
capitalised as an intangible asset.
The fair value of identifiable net assets in excess of the fair value of purchase 
consideration is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the goodwill may be 
impaired in accordance with IAS 36, with any impairment losses being 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill arising prior  
to 1 January 1998 was taken directly to equity in the year in which it  
arose. Such goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include purchased licences,  
software, patents, customer contracts, non-compete undertakings, 
customer relationships, trademarks and trade names. Intangible assets  
are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their  
useful economic lives from the date that they are available for use and  
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Useful economic lives do not exceed seven years.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are accounted for 
initially at fair value.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have 
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss, if any.
Capital work in progress
Capital work in progress represents expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment in the course of construction. Transfers are made to other 
property, plant and equipment categories when the assets are available  
for use.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable 
value with due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s  
balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with  
IAS 39 and recognised initially at fair value.
The Group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage financial risk. 
Interest charges and financial liabilities are stated after taking account of 
these swaps.
The Group uses these swaps and other hedges to mitigate exposures to 
both foreign currency and interest rates. 
Hedges are accounted for as follows:
Cash flow hedges: The effective part of any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods  
during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item 
is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being 
hedged and any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
Net investment hedges: The effective portion of the change in fair value  
of the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the translation reserve. 
Any ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest, are initially recognised at  
fair value and are carried at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing, are initially recognised at fair value 
and are carried at amortised cost.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable issue costs. 
Subject to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and where it is 
probable that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation.
Financial guarantees
Where Group companies enter into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness or obligations of other companies within the 
Group, these are considered to be insurance arrangements, and accounted 
for as such. In this respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent 
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the guarantor will be 
required to make a payment under the guarantee.
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued
Share-based payment
Charges for employee services received in exchange for share-based 
payment have been made in accordance with IFRS 2.
Options granted under the Group’s employee share schemes are equity 
settled. The fair value of such options has been calculated using a stochastic 
model, based upon publicly available market data, and is charged to the 
income statement over the performance period with a corresponding 
increase in equity.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of  
the number of options that are expected to vest based on the service and 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. 
Segmental reporting
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal 
reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources to the segments and 
to assess their performance. The Group determines the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker to be the Board of Directors.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business 
activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including 
revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 
other components. Segmental results are presented as operating profit 
before exceptional items. Segment assets are defined as property, plant and 
equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables. 
Segment liabilities are defined as trade and other payables, retirement 
benefit liabilities, provisions and other liabilities. The accounting policies of 
the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies.
Dividends
Interim dividends are recorded in the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements when paid. Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements in the period in which they receive 
shareholder approval.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where 
it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are items which are exceptional by their 
size or are non-trading in nature, including those relating to acquisitions.
Accounting estimates and judgments
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with 
IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which 
form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and 
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised if the revision affects only that and prior periods, or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.
The key estimates and judgments in drawing up the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements are in connection with accounting for construction 
contracts and the carrying value of goodwill.
Construction contracts: The Group’s approach to key estimates and 
judgments relating to construction contracts is set out in the revenue 
recognition policy above. The main factors considered when making those 
estimates and judgments include the percentage of work completed at the 
balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the costs of the work required 
to complete the contract and the outcome of claims raised against the 
Group by customers or third parties. With regards to the provision 
recognised in 2014 for the contract dispute outlined in note 7, the Group  
has estimated the expected cost of the remaining remedial actions to be 
undertaken as part of the settlement agreement and the value of the 
property following these remedial actions. The value of the property has 
been determined using an external professional valuation, with the future 
rental yields being the significant assumption underlying the valuation.
Carrying value of goodwill: The Group tests annually whether goodwill  
has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out 
above. The Group estimates the recoverable amount based on value-in-use 
calculations. These calculations require the use of assumptions, the most 
important being the forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount  
rates applied. 
The Group also uses estimates in assessing the amount of any contingent 
consideration payable. The significant assumptions used in these calculations 
are forecast revenue growth and forecast margins.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79 3 Segmental analysis
The Group is managed as four geographical divisions and has only one major product or service: specialist ground engineering services. This is reflected in 
the Group’s management structure and in the segment information reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker. 
2015
Revenue
£m
2015 
Operating
profit
£m
2014
Revenue
£m
2014 
Operating
profit
£m
North America 851.2 76.4 775.6 59.9
EMEA
1
441.5 21.3 451.5 12.9
Asia 108.2 4.5 111.3 8.3
Australia 161.5 7.2 261.3 15.7
1,562.4 109.4 1,599.7 96.8
Central items and eliminations – (6.0) – (4.8)
Before exceptional items 1,562.4 103.4 1,599.7 92.0
Exceptional items (note 7) – (38.7) – (56.7)
1,562.4 64.7 1,599.7 35.3
2015
Segment
assets
£m
2015
Segment
liabilities
£m
2015
Capital
employed
£m
2015
Capital
additions
£m
2015
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£m
2015
Tangible and
intangible
assets
£m
North America 508.7 (165.5) 343.2 30.5 19.8 245.6
EMEA
1
269.9 (183.2) 86.7 31.4 17.4 130.9
Asia 97.4 (32.3) 65.1 6.8 6.5 45.2
Australia 101.9 (38.8) 63.1 5.7 8.3 69.6
977.9 (419.8) 558.1 74.4 52.0 491.3
Central items and eliminations
2
96.5 (320.6) (224.1) 0.6 0.1 0.6
1,074.4 (740.4) 334.0 75.0 52.1 491.9
2014
Segment
assets
£m
2014
Segment
liabilities
£m
2014
Capital
employed
£m
2014
Capital
additions
£m
2014
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£m
2014
Tangible and
intangible
assets
£m
North America 499.4 (159.9) 339.5 23.3 17.2 251.6
EMEA
1
283.3 (215.2) 68.1 23.1 18.9 127.4
Asia 84.7 (29.4) 55.3 10.8 5.5 47.4
Australia 85.1 (44.2) 40.9 7.3 8.2 52.6
952.5 (448.7) 503.8 64.5 49.8 479.0
Central items and eliminations
2
103.4 (260.9) (157.5) – 0.1 0.1
1,055.9 (709.6) 346.3 64.5 49.9 479.1
1
 Europe, Middle East and Africa.
2
 Central items include net debt and tax balances.
Revenue and non-current non-financial assets are analysed by country below:
Revenue
Non-current  
non-financial assets
3
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
United States 773.4 666.5 196.7 155.9
Australia 161.5 261.3 69.6 52.6
Canada 77.7 108.2 64.9 122.2
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 61.8 67.5 19.2 19.2
Other 488.0 496.2 157.5 145.0
1,562.4 1,599.7 507.9 494.9
3
 Non-current non-financial assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other non-current non-financial assets.
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Acquisitions
2015 acquisitions
Bencor Austral Ellington Cross Total
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
adjustment
£m
Fair
value
£m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 3.8 3.8 – 8.7 8.7 – 0.4 0.4 – 12.9 12.9
Property, plant and 
equipment 16.7 – 16.7 9.6 1.5 11.1 0.6 – 0.6 26.9 1.5 28.4
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 1.1 – 1.1 – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Receivables 10.0 – 10.0 3.9 – 3.9 1.2 – 1.2 15.1 – 15.1
Other assets 0.1 – 0.1 1.6 – 1.6 – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Loans and borrowings – – – (1.0) – (1.0) – – – (1.0) – (1.0)
Deferred tax – – – 0.3 – 0.3 – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Other liabilities (4.8) – (4.8) (5.9) – (5.9) (0.5) – (0.5) (11.2) – (11.2)
22.0 3.8 25.8 9.6 10.2 19.8 1.3 0.4 1.7 32.9 14.4 47.3
Goodwill 3.2 6.7 0.2 10.1
Total consideration 29.0 26.5 1.9 57.4
Satisfied by
Initial cash consideration 29.0 19.9 1.9 50.8
Contingent consideration – 6.6 – 6.6
29.0 26.5 1.9 57.4
On 17 August 2015, the Group acquired the trade and selected assets of the GeoConstruction group (‘Bencor’) of Layne Christensen Company, a business 
based in Dallas, USA. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer contracts at the date of acquisition and the trade 
name. Goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled workforce, the expectation of future contracts and 
customer relationships and the opportunity to expand Bencor’s diaphragm wall technology around the Group. 
On 2 July 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Austral Construction Pty Limited (‘Austral’), a business based in Melbourne, Australia. 
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer relationships and customer contracts at the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled workforce, the expectation of future contracts and 
customer relationships and the operating synergies that arise from the Group’s strengthened market position. Contingent consideration of up to £9.9m 
(A$20.0m) is payable based on total earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation in the three-year period following acquisition. The full 
amount of contingent consideration is currently provided for.
On 17 August 2015, the Group acquired the trade and selected assets of Ellington Cross, LLC (‘Ellington Cross’), a business based in Charleston, USA.
The fair value of the total receivables in all acquisitions is not materially different from the gross contractual amounts receivable and is expected to be 
recovered in full. In the period to 31 December 2015, Austral, Bencor and Ellington Cross contributed £35.1m to turnover and £0.5m to the net profit 
before exceptional items of the Group. Had the acquisitions all taken place on 1 January 2015, total Group revenue would have been £1,606.4m and total 
net profit before exceptional items would have been £65.0m.
The adjustments made in respect of acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2015 are provisional and will be finalised within 12 months of the 
acquisition date.
2014 acquisitions
On 14 August 2014, the Group acquired the trade and selected assets of Ansah Sdn Bhd, a business based in Kuantan, Malaysia, for an initial cash 
consideration of £3.5m (RM19.0m). £1.4m (RM7.6m) of the purchase price relates to property, plant and equipment, with the remaining purchase price 
allocated to goodwill. Contingent consideration of up to £1.5m (RM8.0m) is payable based on total earnings before interest and tax in the three-year  
period following acquisition. The full amount of contingent consideration is currently provided for.
On 15 May 2014, the Group acquired the remaining 45% minority shareholding of Keller Engenharia Geotecnica Ltda in Brazil for a cash consideration 
of £2.8m (R$10.7m) at a premium of £1.0m (R$4.1m) to net book value, which has been taken directly to reserves.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81 5 Operating costs
Note
2015
 £m 
2014
 £m 
Raw materials and consumables 450.3 481.5
Staff costs 6 402.2 404.5
Other operating charges 493.4 511.4
Amortisation of intangibles 1.2 1.9
Operating lease and short-term rental expense:
 Land and buildings 9.6 9.5
 Plant, machinery and vehicles 51.4 50.9
Depreciation:
 Owned property, plant and equipment 50.5 47.6
 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases 0.4 0.4
Operating costs before exceptional items 1,459.0 1,507.7
Exceptional items (note 7) 38.7 56.7
1,497.7 1,564.4
Other operating charges include:
Redundancy and other reorganisation costs 4.4 4.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s Annual Accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.0 1.0
 Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2
 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.2
 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1
6 Employees
The aggregate staff costs of the Group were:
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Wages and salaries 350.0 350.4
Social security costs 40.4 41.9
Other pension costs 10.0 10.3
Share-based payments 1.8 1.9
402.2 404.5
These costs include Directors’ remuneration. Directors’ remuneration comprised:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.7 2.0
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.9 0.9
3.7 3.0
The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2015
Number
2014
Number
North America 3,841 3,316
EMEA 3,917 3,900
Asia 1,345 1,233
Australia 678 674
9,781 9,123
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items which are exceptional by their size or are non-trading in nature, including those relating to acquisitions. Exceptional items 
comprise the following:
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Goodwill impairment 31.2 –
Contract dispute – 54.0
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 7.3 6.6
Acquisition costs 0.2 0.5
Contingent consideration and payments – (4.7)
Other – 0.3
Exceptional items in operating costs 38.7 56.7
Exceptional finance costs 0.7 0.2
39.4 56.9
The goodwill impairment relates to Keller Canada. The results for Keller Canada have been below those expected at the time of the acquisition, primarily 
due to a severe slowdown in investment in the Canadian oil sands following the very significant reduction in the oil price since the time of acquisition. 
Further details are set out in note 13.
The prior year charge for a contract dispute relates to a project that the Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited, completed in 2008. The dispute was subject 
to litigation proceedings involving a number of parties, but these were settled in February 2015. The final cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial 
and other actions to be undertaken as part of the settlement agreement and the value of the property following these remedial actions. The exceptional 
charge represents management’s best estimate of the net cost to Keller before taking account of future recoveries under applicable insurances, as these 
cannot be recognised under IFRS until they are ‘virtually certain’. Given the uncertainty associated with any future insurance recoveries, it is not currently 
practicable to estimate the value of these recoveries. During 2015, the Group paid net £27.5m relating to this contract dispute. The remainder of these 
costs are largely expected to be incurred within the next year.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets primarily relate to Keller Canada, Franki Africa and the acquisitions set out in note 4.
The prior year credit for contingent consideration and payments mainly relates to the release of previously provided contingent consideration for the 
acquisition of Keller Canada which the Group no longer expects to pay.
Exceptional finance costs relate to the unwind of discounted contingent consideration to present value.
8 Finance income
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Bank and other interest receivable 0.6 0.6
Other finance income 0.2 0.9
0.8 1.5
9 Finance costs
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.0 3.7
Interest payable on other loans 2.9 1.9
Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.4
Net pension interest cost 0.6 0.7
Other finance costs 1.9 1.7
Finance costs before exceptional items 8.5 8.4
Exceptional finance costs (note 7) 0.7 0.2
9.2 8.6
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83 10 Taxation
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Current tax expense
Current year 27.2 35.1
Prior years 0.2 (0.8)
Total current tax 27.4 34.3
Deferred tax expense
Current year 4.5 (6.5)
Prior years (1.9) 1.6
Total deferred tax 2.6 (4.9)
30.0 29.4
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the 
rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The effective tax rate can be reconciled to the UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) as follows:
2015 2014
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
(note 7)
£m £m
Before  
exceptional  
items
£m
Exceptional  
items
(note 7)
£m £m
Profit before tax 95.7 (39.4) 56.3 85.1 (56.9) 28.2
UK corporation tax at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 19.4 (8.0) 11.4 18.3 (12.2) 6.1
Tax charged at rates other than 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 15.0 (1.8) 13.2 9.4 (0.1) 9.3
Tax losses and other deductible temporary differences  
not recognised 0.5 4.6 5.1 0.9 11.6 12.5
Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income (0.2) 2.2 2.0 0.3 0.4 0.7
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (1.7) – (1.7) 0.8 – 0.8
Tax charge/(credit) 33.0 (3.0) 30.0 29.7 (0.3) 29.4
Effective tax rate 34.5% 7.6% 53.3% 34.9% 0.7% 104.3%
The additional tax charged at other rates of tax relates primarily to tax arising on profits from operations in North America where rates are significantly higher 
than in the UK.
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods:
Unused
tax 
losses
£m
Accelerated
capital 
allowances
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Other
employee
related
liabilities
£m
Bad
debts
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 (4.1) 31.7 (2.6) (10.3) (4.6) 3.9 14.0
(Credit)/charge to the income statement (3.2) 1.1 (0.4) 0.6 (2.1) (0.9) (4.9)
Credit to other comprehensive income – – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Exchange differences 0.1 0.9 0.1 (0.5) (0.2) 0.4 0.8
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 (7.2) 33.7 (3.1) (10.2) (6.9) 3.4 9.7
(Credit)/charge to the income statement (6.9) 4.0 0.2 0.1 2.1 3.1 2.6
Charge to other comprehensive income – – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Acquired with subsidiary – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Exchange differences 0.7 0.2 0.1 (0.3) (0.1) 0.4 1.0
At 31 December 2015 (13.4) 37.9 (2.5) (10.4) (4.9) 6.6 13.3
Deferred tax assets include amounts of £9.2m (2014: £4.1m) where recovery is based on forecasts of future taxable profits that are expected to be 
available to offset the reversal of the associated temporary differences.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 26.7 19.7
Deferred tax assets (13.4) (10.0)
13.3 9.7
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of £71.9m (2014: £25.2m), mainly arising in the UK and Canada, available for offset against future 
profits, on which no deferred tax asset has been recognised. Of these losses, £46.6m (2014: £19.4m) may be carried forward indefinitely.
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Taxation continued
At the balance sheet date the aggregate of other deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised was  
£67.7m (2014: £95.3m).
At the balance sheet date the aggregate of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which no 
deferred tax liability has been recognised is £93.7m (2014: £71.6m). The unprovided deferred tax liability in respect of these timing differences is £4.2m 
(2014: £3.2m).
11 Dividends payable to equity holders of the parent
Ordinary dividends on equity shares:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 16.8p (2013: 16.0p) per share 12.0 11.4
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 8.8p (2014: 8.4p) per share 6.3 6.0
18.3 17.4
The Board has recommended a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £13.1m, representing 18.3p (2014: 16.8p) per share. The proposed 
dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 May 2016 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
12 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share are calculated as follows:
2015
Basic
before
exceptional
items
£m
2015
Diluted 
before
exceptional
items
£m
2015
Basic
£m
2015
Diluted
£m
2014
Basic
before
exceptional
items
£m
2014
Diluted  
before
exceptional
items
£m
2014
Basic
£m
2014
Diluted
£m
Earnings/(loss) (after tax and non-controlling 
interests), being net profits/(losses) attributable  
to equity holders of the parent 61.9 61.9 25.5 25.5 53.6 53.6 (3.0) (3.0)
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Number
of shares
Million
Weighted average of ordinary shares in issue  
during the year 71.7 71.7 71.7 71.7 71.2 71.2 71.2 71.2
Add: weighted average of shares under option  
during the year – 0.8 – 0.8 – 1.0 – 1.0
Adjusted weighted average of ordinary shares  
in issue 71.7 72.5 71.7 72.5 71.2 72.2 71.2 72.2
2015
Pence
2015
Pence
2015
Pence
2015
Pence
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
2014
Pence
Earnings/(loss) per share 86.4 85.4 35.5 35.1 75.3 74.2 (4.2) (4.2)
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 85 13 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Other intangible assets
Total
£m
Arising on  
acquisition 
£m
Other
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 180.3 33.7 16.6 230.6
Additions 3.2 – 0.9 4.1
Exchange differences 0.9 (1.0) 0.2 0.1
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 184.4 32.7 17.7 234.8
Additions 10.1 12.9 0.8 23.8
Exchange differences (6.7) (4.2) 0.1 (10.8)
At 31 December 2015 187.8 41.4 18.6 247.8
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 23.8 6.2 12.7 42.7
Amortisation charge for the year – 6.6 1.9 8.5
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) 0.2 0.1
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 23.9 12.6 14.8 51.3
Impairment charge for the year 31.2 – – 31.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 7.3 1.2 8.5
Exchange differences (1.3) (2.1) 0.1 (3.3)
At 31 December 2015 53.8 17.8 16.1 87.7
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 134.0 23.6 2.5 160.1
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 160.5 20.1 2.9 183.5
At 1 January 2014 156.5 27.5 3.9 187.9
The goodwill impairment relates to Keller Canada.
Other intangible assets arising on acquisition represent customer relationships, customer contracts at the date of acquisition, patents and trade names.
In 2015, for impairment testing purposes goodwill has been allocated to 18 separate cash-generating units (‘CGUs’). Of these, the carrying amount of 
goodwill allocated to four individual CGUs (Suncoast, Keller Canada, HJ Foundations and Keller Limited) is significant in comparison to the total carrying 
amount of goodwill and comprises 65% of the total. The carrying amounts allocated to four further CGUs, taken together, comprise a further 23% of  
the total. The relevant CGUs and the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to each are as set out below, together with the pre-tax discount rate  
and medium-term growth rate used in their value-in-use calculations:
Cash-generating unit Geographical segment
2015
Carrying 
value
£m
2015
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
2015
Forecast
growth rate
%
2014
Carrying 
value
£m
2014
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
2014
Forecast
growth rate
%
Suncoast North America 29.1 12.7 2.0 27.7 13.4 3.0
Keller Canada North America 27.6 11.9 2.0 64.9 11.3 2.0
HJ Foundations North America 18.7 14.9 2.0 17.9 16.0 3.0
Keller Limited EMEA 12.1 11.9 2.0 12.1 12.4 2.0
Hayward Baker North America 9.7 13.4 2.0 9.0 16.7 3.0
Resource Piling Asia 7.7 12.2 2.0 7.9 11.9 2.0
Waterway Australia 6.9 14.6 1.0 7.4 15.7 1.0
Austral Australia 6.7 14.6 2.0 n/a n/a n/a
Other Various 15.5 13.6
134.0 160.5
The recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to each CGU has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation. The calculations all use cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a three-year period.
The Group’s businesses operate in cyclical markets, some of which are expected to continue to face uncertain conditions over the next couple of years.  
The most important factors in the value-in-use calculations, however, are the forecast revenues and operating margins during the forecast period and  
the discount rates applied to future cash flows. The key assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are therefore the revenue and operating margins 
assumed throughout the forecast period. The discount rates used in the value-in-use calculations are based on the weighted average cost of capital of 
companies comparable to the relevant CGUs, adjusted as necessary to reflect the risk associated with the asset being tested.
Management considers all the forecast revenues, margins and profits to be reasonably achievable given recent performance and the historic trading results 
of the relevant CGUs. Cash flows beyond 2018 have been extrapolated using a steady growth rate of between 1% and 2% (shown in the table above),  
which does not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the markets in which the relevant CGUs operate.
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets continued
Management believes that, with the exception of Keller Canada, any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts 
of the CGUs identified above are based would not cause any of their carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The results for Keller Canada have been below those expected at the time of the acquisition, primarily due to a severe slowdown in investment in the 
Canadian oil sands following the very significant reduction in the oil price since the time of acquisition. Based on the value-in-use calculation in 2015, the 
recoverable amount is C$165.1m (£80.5m) and therefore the Keller Canada goodwill has been impaired by C$60.9m (£31.2m), with C$56.6m (£27.6m) of 
goodwill remaining on the balance sheet at 31 December 2015. Therefore, in the event that the assumptions in the value-in-use calculation were to prove to 
be over optimistic, this would lead to a further impairment of goodwill. The assumptions underlying the forecasts used in the value-in-use calculation are for 
a gradual recovery in the Canadian market in the medium term, albeit to a level lower than that expected at the time of acquisition, such that the compound 
annual revenue growth rate is 4% over the period under review and operating margins gradually recover to 8.5%.
A 1% reduction in assumed operating margins in each year would result in a further impairment of C$20.5m (£10.0m). Alternatively, a 1% increase in the 
discount rate would lead to a further impairment of C$15.5m (£7.6m) or a 5% reduction in forecast revenue in each year, at the assumed operating margins, 
would result in a further impairment of C$6.2m (£3.0m).
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant, machinery
and vehicles
£m
Capital work
in progress
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 42.4 548.6 0.3 591.3
Additions 2.9 59.2 1.5 63.6
Disposals – (11.8) – (11.8)
Acquired with subsidiaries – 1.4 – 1.4
Reclassification 2.0 (2.0) – –
Exchange differences (0.7) 0.5 – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 46.6 595.9 1.8 644.3
Additions 1.4 64.9 7.9 74.2
Disposals (0.4) (18.3) – (18.7)
Acquired with subsidiaries 2.1 26.3 – 28.4
Reclassification 0.2 0.3 (0.5) –
Exchange differences (1.3) (14.2) (1.3) (16.8)
At 31 December 2015 48.6 654.9 7.9 711.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 9.5 299.9 – 309.4
Charge for the year 1.7 46.3 – 48.0
Disposals – (8.6) – (8.6)
Exchange differences (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 11.1 337.6 – 348.7
Charge for the year 1.2 49.7 – 50.9
Disposals (0.1) (13.8) – (13.9)
Exchange differences (0.2) (5.9) – (6.1)
At 31 December 2015 12.0 367.6 – 379.6
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 36.6 287.3 7.9 331.8
At 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 35.5 258.3 1.8 295.6
At 1 January 2014 32.9 248.7 0.3 281.9
The net book value of plant, machinery and vehicles includes £4.0m (2014: £3.9m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The Group had contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £1.9m (2014: £0.9m) at the balance sheet date.  
These amounts were not included in the balance sheet at the year end.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 87 15 Other non-current assets
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 6.5 3.5
Other assets 16.4 16.4
22.9 19.9
16 Inventories
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Raw materials and consumables 32.7 33.8
Work in progress 1.0 0.5
Finished goods 13.6 14.3
47.3 48.6
17 Trade and other receivables
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade receivables 341.6 319.8
Construction work in progress 60.3 59.6
Other receivables 12.4 19.3
Prepayments 8.9 10.0
423.2 408.7
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts. 
The movement in the provision for bad and doubtful debt is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 January 36.5 29.0
Used during the period (10.9) (2.1)
Additional provisions 12.6 12.3
Unused amounts reversed (9.5) (3.1)
Exchange differences (0.2) 0.4
At 31 December 28.5 36.5
The ageing of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired was as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Overdue by less than 30 days 62.7 61.5
Overdue by between 31 and 90 days 31.3 34.4
Overdue by more than 90 days 33.7 24.3
127.7 120.2
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Construction contracts
Construction contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses) to date 883.5 887.5
Retentions withheld by customers 29.3 28.0
Advances received 2.5 4.9
Construction contract revenue recognised in the year in accordance with IAS 11 totalled £1,397.4m (2014: £1,433.2m). 
19 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Bank balances 56.3 79.7
Short-term deposits 6.8 5.9
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 63.1 85.6
Bank overdrafts (0.2) –
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 62.9 85.6
20 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade payables 174.6 171.4
Other taxes and social security payable 8.8 8.8
Other payables 128.3 142.0
Accruals 37.1 30.8
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 24.6 0.2
373.4 353.2
Other payables include contract accruals, advance billings and contingent consideration of £0.5m (2014: nil).
21 Provisions
Employee
provisions
£m
Restructuring
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
 £m 
Total
 £m
At 1 January 2015 11.6 1.8 59.9 73.3
Charge for the year 4.5 1.6 0.1 6.2
Acquired with subsidiaries 0.8 – – 0.8
Used during the period (5.0) (0.1) (32.7) (37.8)
Unused amounts reversed (1.0) (0.2) – (1.2)
Exchange differences 0.3 – 0.2 0.5
At 31 December 2015 11.2 3.1 27.5 41.8
To be settled within one year 4.2 3.1 27.4 34.7
To be settled after one year 7.0 – 0.1 7.1
At 31 December 2015 11.2 3.1 27.5 41.8
Employee provisions comprise obligations to employees other than retirement benefit obligations. Other provisions are in respect of legal and other 
disputes in various Group companies, including the provision for the contract dispute outlined in note 7. The provision for this contract dispute has been 
estimated based on the expected cost of the remaining remedial actions to be undertaken as part of the settlement agreement and the value of the 
property following these remedial actions. The provision does not take into account any future insurance recoveries as it is not currently practicable to 
estimate the value of these recoveries. The majority of provisions are expected to be utilised within one year.
22 Other non-current liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of derivative financial instruments – 19.4
Other liabilities 22.6 16.9
22.6 36.3
Other liabilities include contingent consideration of £9.1m (2014: £2.8m).
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 89 23 Financial instruments
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arise in the normal 
course of the Group’s business. Derivative financial instruments are used  
to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor does it engage  
in speculative derivative transactions.
Currency risk
The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, most of which 
are in currencies other than sterling. The Group aims to reduce the impact 
that retranslation of these net assets might have on the consolidated balance 
sheet, by matching the currency of its borrowings, where possible, with the 
currency of its assets. The majority of the Group’s borrowings are held in 
US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros, Australian dollars, Singapore dollars  
and South African rand, in order to provide a hedge against these currency 
net assets.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise currency transaction 
exchange risk. Forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments 
are used to hedge significant individual transactions. The majority of such 
currency flows within the Group relate to repatriation of profits, intra-
Group loan repayments and any foreign currency cash flows associated  
with acquisitions. The Group’s foreign exchange cover is executed  
primarily in the UK. 
At 31 December 2015, the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts 
outstanding was £0.4m (2014: £0.2m), included in current liabilities.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is managed by mixing fixed and floating rate borrowings 
depending upon the purpose and term of the financing. 
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are trade and other receivables, bank 
and cash balances and a limited number of investments and derivatives held 
to hedge certain of the Group’s liabilities. These represent the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. 
The Group has stringent procedures to manage counterparty risk and the 
assessment of customer credit risk is embedded in the contract tendering 
processes. Customer credit risk is mitigated by the Group’s relatively small 
average contract size, its diversity, both geographically and in terms of end 
markets, and by taking out credit insurance in many of the countries in which  
the Group operates. No individual customer represented more than 5%  
of revenue in 2015. The counterparty risk on bank and cash balances is managed 
by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one institution by reference 
to their credit rating and by regular review of these ratings. The ageing of trade 
receivables that were past due but not impaired is shown in note 17.
Liquidity risk and capital management
The Group’s capital structure is kept under constant review, taking account  
of the need for, availability and cost of various sources of finance. The capital 
structure of the Group consists of net debt, as shown on page 91, and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent as shown in the consolidated balance 
sheet. The Group maintains a balance between certainty of funding and a 
flexible, cost-effective financing structure with all main borrowings being from 
committed facilities. The Group’s policy continues to be to ensure that its capital 
structure is appropriate to support this balance and the Group’s operations.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the 
amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue 
new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group’s debt and committed 
facilities mainly comprise a US$40m private placement repayable in 2018, a 
US$50m private placement repayable in 2021, a US$75m private placement 
repayable in 2024 and a £250m syndicated revolving credit facility expiring in 
2019. These facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Group’s 
financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt and interest to 
profit. The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
At the year end, the Group also had other committed and uncommitted 
borrowing facilities totalling £51.4m (2014: £40.7m) to support local requirements.
Private placements
In August 2012, US$40m was raised through a private placement with US 
institutions. The proceeds of the issue of US$40m 5.0% notes due 2018 were 
used to repay existing debt. In October and December 2014, a further US$50m 
and US$75m respectively were raised through a private placement with US 
institutions. The proceeds of the issue of US$50m 3.81% Series A notes due 2021 
and US$75m 4.17% Series B notes due 2024 were used to refinance the 2004 
US$70m 5.48% private placement notes which matured in October 2014 and 
other existing debt.
The US private placement loans are accounted for on an amortised cost basis, 
adjusted for the impact of hedge accounting (as described below), and retranslated 
at the spot exchange rate at each period end. The carrying value of the private 
placement liabilities at 31 December 2015 was £1 14.7m (2014: £108.8m).
Hedging
In June 2006, US$185m of floating rate intra-Group debt was swapped  
into sterling floating rates by means of dollar sterling cross-currency interest 
rate swaps (‘the 2006 swaps’). The 2006 swaps have the same maturity as 
the intra-Group debt and have been designated as cash flow hedges of the 
Company’s exposure to the variability of cash flows on the intra-Group  
debt resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates. 
The fair value of the 2006 swaps at 31 December 2015 represented  
a liability of £24.2m (2014: £18.5m) included in current liabilities  
(2014: non-current liabilities). The effective portion of changes in the fair 
value of the 2006 swaps, a loss of £5.6m (2014: £7.2m), has been taken  
to the hedging reserve and fully recycled through the income statement 
during the year.
The 2012 US$40m fixed rate private placement liabilities were swapped  
into sterling by means of dollar sterling cross-currency fixed interest rate 
swaps. Also, on the same date, £25.5m of sterling was swapped into euros 
by means of sterling euro cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps. These 
interest rate swaps (‘the 2012 swaps’) have the same maturity as the private 
placement liability. The dollar sterling swaps have been designated as cash 
flow hedges of the Company’s exposure to the variability of cash flows on 
the private placement resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and 
the sterling euro swaps have been designated as net investment hedges of 
the Group’s euro-denominated net assets.
The fair value of the 2012 swaps at 31 December 2015 represented an  
asset of £2.8m (2014: £0.5m) included in other non-current assets and a 
liability of £nil (2014: £0.9m) included in other non-current liabilities. The 
effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the dollar sterling swaps, 
a gain of £1.5m (2014: £1.1m), has been taken to the hedging reserve and 
fully recycled through the income statement during the year. The effective 
portion of the changes in the fair value of the sterling euro swaps, a gain of 
£1.7m (2014: £2.0m), has been taken to the translation reserve through 
other comprehensive income along with the foreign exchange gains and 
losses arising on retranslation of the euro-denominated assets they hedge. 
The 2014 US$50m and US$75m fixed rate private placement liabilities  
were swapped into floating rate by means of US dollar interest rate swaps 
(‘the 2014 swaps’). The 2014 swaps have the same maturity as the private 
placement liabilities and have been designated as fair value hedges of the 
Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value of the US private placement 
loans and related interest cash flows due to changes in US dollar  
interest rates.
The fair value of the 2014 swaps at 31 December 2015 represented an  
asset of £3.7m (2014: £3.0m) which is included in other non-current assets. 
The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the 2014 swaps, a 
gain of £0.8m (2014: £3.0m), has been taken to the income statement along 
with equal and opposite movement in fair value of the corresponding 
hedged items.
All hedges are tested for effectiveness every six months using the cumulative 
dollar offset method. All hedging relationships remained effective during the 
year. The ineffective portion of the movement in the fair value of the 
hedging instruments was £0.2m (2014: £nil).
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial instruments continued
Effective interest rates and maturity analysis
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance 
sheet date and the periods in which they mature.
2015
Effective
interest rate
%
2015
Due within
1-2 years
£m
2015
Due within
2-5 years
£m
2015
Due after 
more than
5 years
£m
2015
Total 
non-current 
£m
2015
Due within
1 year
£m
2015
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts 5.0 – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Bank loans
*
2.4 – (123.6) (2.9) (126.5) (1.2) (127.7)
Other loans
*
2.2 – (27.0) (87.7) (114.7) (0.3) (115.0)
Obligations under finance leases
*
8.8 (0.8) (0.6) – (1.4) (1.8) (3.2)
Total loans and borrowings (0.8) (151.2) (90.6) (242.6) (3.5) (246.1)
Bank balances
*
1.0 – – – – 56.3 56.3
Short-term deposits
*
3.0 – – – – 6.8 6.8
Net debt (0.8) (151.2) (90.6) (242.6) 59.6 (183.0)
Derivative financial instruments – 2.8 3.7 6.5 (24.6) (18.1)
2014
Effective
interest rate
%
2014
Due within
1-2 years
£m
2014
Due within
2-5 years
£m
2014
Due after 
more than
5 years
£m
2014
Total 
non-current 
£m
2014
Due within
1 year
£m
2014
Total
£m
Bank loans
*
1.8 (0.5) (72.2) (1.0) (73.7) (1.2) (74.9)
Other loans
*
2.6 – (25.8) (83.0) (108.8) – (108.8)
Obligations under finance leases
*
7.3 (1.9) (0.7) – (2.6) (1.5) (4.1)
Total loans and borrowings (2.4) (98.7) (84.0) (185.1) (2.7) (187.8)
Bank balances
*
1.6 – – – – 79.7 79.7
Short-term deposits
*
2.8 – – – – 5.9 5.9
Net debt (2.4) (98.7) (84.0) (185.1) 82.9 (102.2)
Derivative financial instruments (18.6) (0.4) 3.1 (15.9) (0.2) (16.1)
*
 These include assets/liabilities bearing interest at a fixed rate.
Loans and borrowings consist of the following:
 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
US$75m private placement (due December 2024) 53.1 50.3
US$50m private placement (due October 2021) 34.6 32.7
£250m syndicated revolving credit facility (expiring September 2019) 123.1 71.9
US$40m private placement (due August 2018) 27.0 25.8
Bank overdrafts 0.2 –
Obligations under finance leases 3.2 4.1
Other loans and borrowings 4.9 3.0
Total loans and borrowings 246.1 187.8
In addition, there were non-interest-bearing financial liabilities comprising trade and other payables of £31 1.7m (2014: £322.2m) which were payable within one 
year. £0.5m (2014: nil) of contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions taking place on or after 1 January 2010 is payable within one year, £1.0m (2014: nil) is payable 
between one and two years and £8.1m (2014: £2.8m) is payable between two and five years.
The Group had unutilised committed banking facilities of £127.6m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £173.1m). This mainly comprised the unutilised portion  
of the Group’s £250m facility which expires on 4 September 2019. In addition, the Group had unutilised uncommitted borrowing facilities totalling £25.9m 
at 31 December 2015 (2014: £24.3m). All of these borrowing facilities are unsecured. Future obligations under finance leases totalled £3.5m (2014: £4.6m), 
including interest of £0.3m (2014: £0.5m).
Fair values
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying values. The following summarises the major 
methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments:
Derivatives
The fair value of interest rate and cross-currency swaps is calculated based on expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted using market 
rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. In 2015 and in 2014, the valuation methods of all of the Group’s derivative financial instruments carried at fair value 
are categorised as Level 2. Level 2 is defined as inputs, other than quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 91 23 Financial instruments continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Contingent consideration
Fair value is calculated based on the amounts expected to be paid, determined by reference to forecasts of future performance of the acquired businesses 
discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date and the probability of contingent events and targets being achieved.
In 2015 and in 2014, the valuation methods of all of the Group’s contingent consideration carried at fair value are categorised as Level 3. Level 3 inputs are 
unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s contingent consideration are forecast revenue growth rates  
(2015: -10%–14%), forecast EBITDA margins (2015: 9%–23%) and pre-tax discount rates (2015: 15%–22%). 
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening to closing balances for Level 3 fair values:
Contingent
consideration
£m
At 1 January 2015
1
5.5
Provision released (note 7) (0.9)
Additional amounts provided (note 7) 0.9
Paid during the year (2.6)
Assumed within business combinations (note 4) 6.6
Unwind of discounted contingent consideration (note 7) 0.7
Exchange differences
2
(0.6)
At 31 December 2015 9.6
1
 Restated from 31 December 2014.
2
 Included in other comprehensive income.
The fair value measurement of the contingent consideration could be affected if the forecast revenue growth rates or forecast EBITDA margins  
are different to those stated above. A higher forecast revenue growth rate or higher EBITDA margin may increase the value of the contingent  
consideration payable.
Trade and other payables and receivables and construction work in progress
For payables and receivables with a remaining life of one year or less, the carrying amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other payables and 
receivables are discounted using market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate and currency profile 
The profile of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities after taking account of swaps was as follows:
2015
Sterling
2015
USD
2015
Euro
2015
CAD
2015
Other
1
2015
Total
Weighted average fixed debt interest rate – – 3.9% 12.6% – n/a
Weighted average fixed debt period (years) – – 3.3 1.1 – n/a
2015
£m
2015
£m
2015
£m
2015
£m
2015
£m
2015
£m
Fixed rate financial liabilities – – (29.8) (1.1) – (30.9)
Floating rate financial liabilities – (87.7) (23.7) (67.7) (36.1) (215.2)
Financial assets 2.8 11.4 10.4 2.2 36.3 63.1
Net debt 2.8 (76.3) (43.1) (66.6) 0.2 (183.0)
2014
Sterling
2014
USD
2014
Euro
2014
CAD
2014
Other
1
2014
Total
Weighted average fixed debt interest rate – – 4.4% – 8.4% n/a
Weighted average fixed debt period (years) – – 3.8 – 1.8 n/a
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Fixed rate financial liabilities – – (27.6) – (0.5) (28.1)
Floating rate financial liabilities – (83.0) (19.3) (40.9) (16.5) (159.7)
Financial assets 1.4 15.3 17.2 2.5 49.2 85.6
Net debt 1.4 (67.7) (29.7) (38.4) 32.2 (102.2)
1
 Included within other floating rate financial liabilities are AUD revolver loans of £19.5m (2014: £nil), ZAR revolver loans of £3.4m (2014: £13.3m) and SGD revolver loans of £9.9m 
(2014: £2.0m). Included within other financial assets are AUD cash balances of £5.3m (2014: £12.0m), ZAR cash balances of £3.4m (2014: £2.8m) and SGD cash balances of £2.3m  
(2014: £2.8m).
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis
At 31 December 2015, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before taxation  
by approximately £1.6m (2014: £0.8m). The impact of interest rate swaps has been included in this calculation.
It is estimated that a general increase of 10 percentage points in the value of sterling against other principal foreign currencies would have decreased the 
Group’s profit before taxation and exceptional items by approximately £8.2m for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £8.2m). This sensitivity relates 
to the impact of retranslation of foreign earnings only. The impact on the Group’s earnings of currency transaction exchange risk is not significant.
24 Share capital and reserves 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Equity share capital:
73,099,735 ordinary shares of 10p each (2014: 73,099,735) 7.3 7.3
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to fixed income. There are no restrictions on the transfer of these shares. 
The capital redemption reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the Company’s shares were redeemed or purchased other than from the 
proceeds of a fresh issue of shares.
The other reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when merger relief was applied to an issue of shares under section 612 of the Companies Act 
2006 to part fund the acquisition of Keller Canada. The reserve becomes distributable should Keller Canada be disposed of.
The total number of shares held in Treasury was 1.3m (2014: 1.8m). 
25 Related party transactions
Transactions between the parent, its subsidiaries and joint operations, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. 
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel and related parties of the Group, is set out in note 6.
26 Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred was £1.9m (2014: £0.9m) and relates to property, plant and 
equipment purchases.
(b) Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Group’s total commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
2015
Land and 
buildings
£m
2015
Plant,
machinery
and vehicles
£m
2015
Total
£m
2014
Land and 
buildings
£m
2014
Plant,
machinery
and vehicles
£m
2014
Total
£m
Payable within one year 9.2 4.3 13.5 10.0 6.3 16.3
Payable between one and five years inclusive 20.6 4.8 25.4 18.4 5.1 23.5
Payable in over five years 9.7 0.1 9.8 10.6 – 10.6
39.5 9.2 48.7 39.0 11.4 50.4
27 Contingent liabilities
Claims against the Group arise in the normal course of trading. Some of these claims involve or may involve litigation and, in a few instances, the total 
amounts claimed against the Group may be significant in relation to the size of the related contract. However, the amounts agreed, if any, are generally 
less than the total amount claimed, in many cases significantly so, and are normally covered by the Group’s insurance arrangements. The Directors’ best 
estimate, based on their knowledge as at the date of these accounts, of the likely amounts payable by the Group on account of such claims has been 
accrued in these accounts.
The Group has entered into bonds in the normal course of business relating to contract tenders, advance payments, contract performance, the release 
of retentions and the Group’s insurance arrangements. The estimated financial effect of these bonds, apart from the fees paid, is £nil (2014: £nil).
The Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings have entered into a number of guarantees in the ordinary course of business, the effects of which 
are to guarantee or cross-guarantee certain bank borrowings and other liabilities of other Group companies.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had standby letters of credit outstanding totalling £15.2m (2014: £13.0m).
As set out in note 10 of the Company financial statements, the Company has provided a guarantee of certain subsidiaries’ liabilities to take the exemption 
from having to prepare individual accounts under section 394A and section 394C of the Companies Act 2006 and exemption from having their financial 
statements audited under sections 479A to 479C of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93 28 Share-based payments
The Group has a share option plan, the Performance Share Plan.
Details of the terms and conditions of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 and 61.
Under the Performance Share Plan, all awards have an exercise price of £1 per exercise. Options outstanding are as follows:
Performance
Share Plan
options
Outstanding at 1 January 2014 1,185,084
Granted during 2014 206,069
Lapsed during 2014 (54,307)
Exercised during 2014 (340,105)
Outstanding at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 996,741
Granted during 2015 295,283
Lapsed during 2015 (6,289)
Exercised during 2015 (512,475)
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 773,260
Exercisable at 1 January 2014 3,750
Exercisable at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 –
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 –
Exercises occurred throughout the year. The average share price during the year was 957.2p.
Under IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for share options granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured based on a stochastic model. The contractual life of the option is used as an input into 
this model, with expectations of early exercise being incorporated into the model.
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average share price 1,028p 1,171p
Weighted average exercise price 0.0p 0.0p
Expected volatility 31.0% 37.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.87% 0.95%
Expected dividend yield 2.40% 2.20%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years, adjusted for any expected 
changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The Group recognised total expenses (included in operating costs) of £1.8m (2014: £1.9m) related to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 748.1p (2014: 734.3p).
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
In the UK, the Group operates the Keller Group Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’), a defined benefit scheme, which has been closed to new members  
since 1999 and was closed to all future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2006. Under the Scheme, employees are normally entitled to retirement 
benefits on attainment of a retirement age of 65. The Scheme is subject to UK pensions legislation which, inter alia, provides for the regulation of work-based 
pension schemes by the Pensions Regulator. The Trustees are aware of and adhere to the Codes of Practice issued by the Pensions Regulator. The Scheme 
Trustees currently comprise one member-nominated Trustee and one employer-nominated Trustee. The employer-nominated Trustee is also the Chair of the 
Trustees. The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, interest rate risk and market (investment) risk, which are managed through 
the investment strategy to acceptable levels. The Scheme can invest in a wide range of asset classes including equities, bonds, cash, property, alternatives 
(including private equity, commodities, hedge funds, infrastructure, currency, high yield debt and derivatives) and annuity policies. Any investment in 
derivative instruments is only made to contribute to a reduction in the overall level of risk in the portfolio or for the purposes of efficient portfolio 
management. With effect from the most recent actuarial valuation date (5 April 2014), the Group has agreed to pay annual contributions of £1.6m until 
the next actuarial review in 2017.
The Group has two UK defined contribution retirement benefit schemes. There were no contributions outstanding in respect of these schemes at  
31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). The total UK defined contribution pension charge for the year was £1.3m (2014: £1.2m).
The Group also has defined benefit retirement obligations in Germany and Austria. Under these schemes, employees are entitled to retirement benefits  
on attainment of a retirement age of 65, provided they have 15 years of employment with the Group. The amount of benefit payable depends on the  
grade of employee and the number of years of service, up to a maximum of 40 years. Benefits under these schemes only apply to employees who joined 
the Group prior to 1991. These defined benefit retirement obligations are funded on the Group’s balance sheet and obligations are met as and when 
required by the Group. 
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for employees in North America, where the Group is required to match employee contributions up  
to a certain level in accordance with the scheme rules. The total North America pension charge for the year was £3.6m (2014: £3.0m).
In Australia, there is a defined contribution scheme where the Group is required to ensure that a prescribed level of superannuation support of an 
employee’s notional base earnings is made. This prescribed level of support is currently 9.5% (2014: 9.5%). The total Australian pension charge for the  
year was £3.0m (2014: £3.9m).
Details of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
Present value of the scheme liabilities (48.5) (49.8) (12.8) (13.8)
Present value of assets 38.2 38.2 – –
Deficit in the scheme (10.3) (11.6) (12.8) (13.8)
The value of the scheme liabilities has been determined by the actuary using the following assumptions:
31 December
2015
%
31 December
2014
%
31 December
2015
%
31 December
2014
%
Discount rate 3.9 3.6 1.9 1.9
Interest on assets 3.9 3.6 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4 3.3 2.0 2.0
Rate of increase in pensions in deferment 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.0
Rate of inflation 3.2 3.1 2.0 2.0
The mortality rate assumptions are based on published statistics. The average remaining life expectancy, in years, of a pensioner retiring at the age of 65 at 
the balance sheet date is:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2015
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2015
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
Male currently aged 65 21.7 21.6 19.0 18.9
Female currently aged 65 23.6 23.5 23.1 22.9
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95 29 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
The assets of the schemes were as follows:
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Value as at
31 December
2015
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Value as at
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Value as at
31 December
2015
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Value as at
31 December
2014
£m
Equities 23.1 23.0 n/a n/a
Gilts 7.6 7.6 n/a n/a
Bonds 7.5 7.6 n/a n/a
38.2 38.2 n/a n/a
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
The Keller
Group Pension
Scheme (UK)
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2015
£m
German and
Austrian 
Schemes
Year ended
31 December
2014
£m
Changes in scheme liabilities
Opening balance (49.8) (44.7) (13.8) (13.4)
Current service cost (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.3)
Interest cost (1.8) (2.0) (0.2) (0.3)
Benefits paid 1.7 1.5 0.6 0.7
Exchange differences – – 0.8 0.8
Experience (loss)/gain on defined benefit obligation – (0.5) 0.1 (0.1)
Changes to demographic assumptions – (0.1) – –
Changes to financial assumptions 1.6 (3.8) (0.1) (1.2)
Closing balance (48.5) (49.8) (12.8) (13.8)
Changes in scheme assets
Opening balance 38.2 35.0 – –
Interest on assets 1.4 1.6 – –
Employer contributions 1.6 1.5 – –
Benefits paid (1.7) (1.5) – –
Return on plan assets less interest (1.3) 1.6 – –
Closing balance 38.2 38.2 – –
Actual return on scheme assets 0.1 3.2 – –
Statement of comprehensive income (SOCI)
Return on plan assets less interest (1.3) 1.6 – –
Experience (loss)/gain on defined benefit obligation – (0.5) 0.1 (0.1)
Changes to demographic assumptions – (0.1) – –
Changes to financial assumptions 1.6 (3.8) (0.1) (1.2)
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 0.3 (2.8) – (1.3)
Cumulative remeasurements of defined benefit plans (19.9) (20.2) (5.5) (5.5)
Expense recognised in the income statement 
Current service cost 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3
Operating costs 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3
Net pension interest cost 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.3
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.6
Movements in the balance sheet liability
Net liability at start of year 11.6 9.7 13.8 13.4
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.6
Employer contributions (1.6) (1.5) – –
Benefits paid – – (0.6) (0.7)
Exchange differences – – (0.8) (0.8)
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (0.3) 2.8 – 1.3
Net liability at end of year 10.3 11.6 12.8 13.8
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
A reduction in the discount rate of 0.1% would increase the deficit in the schemes by £1.0m, whilst a reduction in the inflation assumption of 0.1%, including 
its impact on the revaluation in deferment and pension increases in payment, would decrease the deficit by £0.6m. An increase in the mortality rate by one 
year would increase the deficit in the schemes by £2.4m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is approximately 17 years for the UK scheme and 12 years for the German and  
Austrian schemes.
The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities for all the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (61.3) (63.6) (58.1) (52.6) (49.9)
Fair value of scheme assets 38.2 38.2 35.0 34.4 32.2
Deficit in the schemes (23.1) (25.4) (23.1) (18.2) (17.7)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 1.6 (5.7) (5.1) (3.5) 1.0
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (1.3) 1.6 (0.6) 0.7 0.1
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97 Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Tangible fixed assets 0.6  0.1 
Investments 2 99.1  94.1 
Other assets 3 6.5  3.5 
Fixed assets 106.2  97.7 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
– Amounts falling due within one year 126.3  1.1 
– Amounts falling due after one year 297.0  447.5 
Trade and other debtors 4 0.4  0.5 
Cash and bank balances 2.1  2.2 
Current assets 425.8  451.3 
Trade and other creditors 5 (29.1) (4.6)
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (0.3) (0.2)
Provisions 6 –  (20.0)
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year (29.4) (24.8)
Net current assets 396.4  426.5 
Total assets less current liabilities 502.6  524.2 
Bank and other loans (136.7) (138.9)
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (29.5) (25.4)
Other creditors 7 (2.5) (21.9)
Pension liabilities 9 (1.6) (1.8)
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year (170.3) (188.0)
Net assets 332.3  336.2 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7.3  7.3 
Share premium account 38.1  38.1 
Capital redemption reserve 7.6  7.6 
Other reserves 56.9  56.9 
Profit and loss account 222.4  226.3 
Shareholders’ funds 332.3  336.2 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 February 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Alain Michaelis 
Chief Executive Officer
James Hind 
Finance Director
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 98
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2015 Share capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other  
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 7.3  38.1  7.6  56.9 –  225.4  335.3 
Profit for the period –  –  –  – –  16.6  16.6 
Other comprehensive income –  –  –  – –  0.2  0.2 
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity –  –  –  – (6.1) –  (6.1) 
Cash flow hedge transfers to income statement –  –  –  – 6.1 – 6.1 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes –  –  –  – – (0.4) (0.4)
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  –  –  16.4  16.4 
Dividends –  –  –  – – (17.4) (17.4)
Share-based payments –  –  –  – –  1.9  1.9 
At 1 January 2015 7.3  38.1  7.6  56.9  –  226.3  336.2 
Profit for the period –  –  –  – – 12.1 12.1 
Other comprehensive income –  –  –  – –  0.5  0.5 
Cash flow hedge losses taken to equity –  –  –  – (4.2) –  (4.2) 
Cash flow hedge transfers to income statement –  –  –  – 4.2 –  4.2 
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  –  –  12.6  12.6 
Dividends –  –  –  – – (18.3) (18.3)
Share-based payments –  –  –  – –  1.8  1.8 
At 31 December 2015 7.3  38.1  7.6  56.9  –  222.4  332.3 
Details of the capital redemption reserve and the other reserve are included in note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
Of the retained earnings, an amount of £100.8m attributable to profits arising on an intra-Group reorganisation is not distributable.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Principal accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’). The Company meets the definition of 
a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, in the year ended 31 December 
2015 the Company has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
On adoption of FRS 101, no significant impacts from any changes in accounting policies have been noted, and no transition adjustments were required on 
the prior year financial statements. Therefore the opening balance sheet on transition has not been presented. The balance sheet has been presented in 
accordance with the Act and the new FRS 101 format.
Except as noted below, the Company’s accounting policies are consistent with those described in the consolidated financial statements of Keller Group plc. 
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, 
financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash flow statement, related party transactions and comparative information. Where required, 
equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, disclosures in relation to share capital (note 24) and dividends (note 11) 
have not been repeated here as there are no differences to those provided in the consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention. The financial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency, and unless otherwise stated have been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Profit of the parent company
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Act and consequently the statement of comprehensive income (including the profit and loss 
account) of the parent company is not presented as part of these accounts. The profit of the parent company for the financial year amounted to £12.1m 
(2014: £16.6m).
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings
The Company holds inter-company loans with subsidiary undertakings with repayment dates being a mixture of repayable on demand or repayable on a 
fixed contractual date. These inter-company loans are disclosed on the face of the balance sheet. None are past due nor impaired. The carrying value of 
these loans approximates their fair value.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Audit fees
The Company has taken the exemption granted under SI 2008/489 not to disclose non-audit fees paid to its auditors.
Employees
The Company has no employees other than the Directors. Directors’ remuneration and details of their share-based payments are disclosed in note 6 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
2 Investments
2015
£m
2014
£m
Shares at cost
At 1 January 94.1 127.8 
Additions 5.0 –
Disposals – (0.2)
Amounts provided during the year – (33.5)
At 31 December 99.1 94.1
The amounts provided during 2014 largely relate to the Group’s UK subsidiary, Keller Limited following the contract dispute on a project completed in 2008.
Further details are set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company’s investments are included in the disclosures in note 10.
3 Other assets
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 6.5 3.5 
6.5 3.5 
4 Trade and other debtors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other receivables 0.3 0.3 
Prepayments 0.1 0.2 
0.4 0.5 
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 100
Notes to the Company financial statements 5 Trade and other creditors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other creditors 4.1 3.5 
Accruals 0.8 0.9 
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 24.2 0.2 
29.1 4.6 
6 Provisions
Other  
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 20.0  20.0 
Utilised (20.0) (20.0)
At 31 December 2015 – –
Other provisions relate to the Company’s commitments under the settlement of a contract dispute on a project completed in 2008. Further details are set 
out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
7 Other creditors
2015
£m
2014
£m
Other creditors 2.5 2.5 
Fair value of derivative financial instruments – 19.4 
2.5 21.9 
8 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain of its subsidiary undertakings have entered into a number of guarantees in the ordinary course of business, the effects of which 
are to guarantee or cross-guarantee certain bank borrowings and other liabilities of other Group companies. At 31 December 2015, the Company’s liability 
in respect of the guarantees against bank borrowings amounted to £107.2m (2014: £50.5m). In addition, standby letters of credit outstanding totalled 
£15.2m (2014: £13.0m). No amounts were paid or liabilities incurred relating to these guarantees during 2015 (2014: £nil).
In addition, as set out in note 10, the Company has provided a guarantee of certain subsidiaries’ liabilities to take the exemption from having to prepare 
individual accounts under Section 394A and Section 394C of the Companies Act 2006 and exemption from having their financial statements audited under 
Sections 479A to 479C of the Companies Act 2006.
9 Pension liabilities
In the UK, the Company participates in the Keller Group Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme, details of which are given in note 29 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The Company’s share of the present value of the assets of the scheme at the date of the last actuarial valuation on 5 April 2014 was 
£5.6m and the actuarial valuation showed a funding level of 77%.
Details of the actuarial methods and assumptions, as well as steps taken to address the deficit in the scheme, are given in note 29 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The policy for determining the allocation of each participating company’s pension liability is based on where each scheme member 
was employed.
There were no contributions outstanding in respect of the defined contribution schemes at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Details of the Company’s share of the Keller Group defined benefit scheme are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Present value of the scheme liabilities (7.6) (7.8)
Present value of assets 6.0 6.0
Deficit in the scheme (1.6) (1.8)
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 9 Pension liabilities continued
The assets of the scheme were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equities 3.6 3.6
Gilts 1.2 1.2
Bonds 1.2 1.2
6.0 6.0
2015
£m
2014
£m
Changes in scheme liabilities
Opening balance (7.8) (7.3)
Interest cost (0.3) (0.3)
Benefits paid 0.3 0.2 
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation – (0.1)
Changes to financial assumptions 0.2 (0.3)
Closing balance (7.6) (7.8)
Changes in scheme assets
Opening balance 6.0 5.7 
Interest on assets 0.2 0.3 
Employer contributions 0.3 0.2 
Benefits paid (0.3) (0.2)
Return on plan assets less interest (0.2) –
Closing balance 6.0 6.0 
Actual return on scheme assets – 0.3 
Statement of comprehensive income (SOCI)
Return on plan assets less interest (0.2) –
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation – (0.1)
Changes to financial assumptions 0.2 (0.3)
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – (0.4)
Cumulative remeasurements of defined benefit plans (2.6) (2.6)
Expense recognised in the income statement
Operating costs – –
Net pension interest costs 0.1 –
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.1 –
Movements in the balance sheet liability
Net liability at start of year 1.8 1.6
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.1 –
Employer contributions (0.3) (0.2) 
Benefits paid – – 
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – 0.4
Net liability at end of year 1.6 1.8
The contributions expected to be paid during 2016 are £0.3m.
The history of experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (7.6) (7.8) (7.3) (7.1) (6.6)
Fair value of scheme assets 6.0 6.0 5.7 5.9 5.6 
Deficit in the scheme (1.6) (1.8) (1.6) (1.2) (1.0)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.2 (0.4) (0.2) (0.5) (0.4)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (0.2) – (0.4) 0.1 0.4 
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 102
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 10 Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries and joint ventures as at 31 December 2015 is disclosed below.  
Unless otherwise stated, each of the subsidiary undertakings is wholly owned through ordinary shares by intermediate subsidiary undertakings.
All of the subsidiary undertakings are included within the consolidated financial statements.
All trading companies are engaged in the principal activities of the Group, as defined in the Director’s report.
Subsidiary  
undertaking
Country of  
incorporation
Keller Fondations Spéciales Spa
1
Algeria
Austral Construction Pty Limited Australia
Austral Group Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Austral Investors Pty Limited Australia
Austral Plant Services Pty Limited Australia
Franki Pacific Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Frankipile Australia Pty Limited Australia
Keller National Plant Pty Limited Australia
Keller Foundations Pty Limited Australia
Keller Australia Pty Limited
2
Australia
Keller Ground Engineering Pty Limited Australia
Pile Test International Pty Limited Australia
Piling Contractors Pty Limited Australia
Vibro-Pile (Aust.) Pty Limited Australia
Waterway Constructions (Vic) Pty Limited Australia
Waterway Constructions Group Pty Limited Australia
Waterway Constructions Pty Limited Australia
Keller Grundbau Ges.mbH Austria
Frankipile Botswana (Pty) Ltd Botswana
Keller Engenharia Geotécnia Ltda. Brazil
Cyntech Construction Ltd. Canada
Geo-Foundations Contractors Inc.
3
Canada
Hayward Baker Canada Ltd. Canada
Keller Canada Holdings Ltd. Canada
Keller Canada Services Ltd. Canada
Keller Foundations Ltd. Canada
North American Foundation Engineering Inc. Canada
Keller Cimentaciones Chile, SpA Chile
Keller Speciálne zakladani spol s.r.o. Czech Rep.
Subsidiary  
undertaking
Country of  
incorporation
Esorfranki DRC S.P.R.L.
4
Democratic  
Republic  
of Congo
Keller Funderingsteknik Danmark ApS Denmark
Geotechnical Engineering Contractors Ltd.
5
Egypt
Construction Requirement Company Limited Egypt
Keller Egypt LLC Egypt
KFS Finland Oy
6
Finland
Keller Fondations Spéciales SAS France
GeTec Ingenieurgesellschaft für Informations- und 
Planungstechnologie mbH
Germany
Keller Grundbau GmbH Germany
Keller Holding GmbH Germany
KGS Keller Geräte & Service GmbH Germany
Wannenwetsch GmbH Hochdruckwassertechnik Germany
Frankipile Ghana Limited Ghana
Keller Hellas S.A. Greece
Hayward Baker Cimentaciones Sociedad Anonima Guatemala
Keller Grundbau Mélyépitö Kft. Hungary
Keller Ground Engineering India Private Limited India
P.T. Frankipile Indonesia
7
Indonesia
Capital Insurance Limited
5
Isle of Man
Keller Fondazioni S.r.l. Italy
Keller West Africa SA Ivory Coast
Keller Central Asia Too Kazakhstan
Vremya LLP Kazakhstan
Frankipile Lesotho (Pty) Ltd Lesotho
Keller (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia
Ansah Asia Sdn Bhd Malaysia
Resource Piling (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia
Frankipile (Mauritius) International Limited Mauritius
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103 Subsidiary  
undertaking
Country of  
incorporation
Frankipile International Projects Ltd Mauritius
Keller Cimentaciones de Latinoamerica SA de CV Mexico Mexico
Terratest-Keller J.V. SAPI de CV
8
Mexico
Keller Fondations Spéciales SAS Succursale Maroc Morocco
Frankipile Moçambique Limitada Mozambique
Frankipile Namibia (Pty) Ltd Namibia
Keller Funderingstechnieken B.V. Netherlands
Keller New Zealand Limited New Zealand
Piling Contractors New Zealand Limited New Zealand
Keller Ground Engineering LLC
9
Oman
Keller Cimentaciones, S.A. Panama
Keller Cimentaciones, S.A.C Peru
Keller Polska Sp. z.o.o. Poland
Keller Terra Portugal Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. Portugal
Keller Qatar L.L.C.
10
Qatar
Keller Geotehnica Srl Romania
Keller Russia LLC Russia
Keller Turki Company Ltd.
11
Saudi Arabia
Frankipile Mauritius International (Seychelles) Limited Seychelles
Keller Asia Holdings Limited Singapore
Keller Foundations (SE Asia) Pte Limited Singapore
Resource Piling PTE Limited Singapore
Keller Speciálne zakladanie spol. s.r.o. Slovakia
Franki Geotechnical (Pty) Ltd
12
South Africa
Keller Cimentaciones S.L.U. Spain
Nesur Tecnologica Servicios S.A. Spain
Frankipile Swaziland (Pty) Ltd Swaziland
Keller Grundlaggning AB Sweden
Keller-MTS AG Switzerland
Keller Zemin Mühendisligi Ltd. Sti. Turkey
Accrete Industrial Flooring Limited UK
Subsidiary  
undertaking
Country of  
incorporation
Accrete Limited UK
Bobian Limited
5
UK
Fondedile Foundations (UK) Limited UK
Intermesh Limited UK
Keller Angola Limited UK
Keller Angola Properties Limited UK
Keller EMEA Limited UK
Keller Finance Australia Limited UK
Keller Finance Limited UK
Keller Colcrete Limited UK
Keller Financing UK
Keller Holdings Limited
5
 UK
Keller Limited
5
UK
Keller Resources Limited UK
Makers Holdings Limited
5
UK
Makers Management Services Limited
5
UK
Makers Services Limited UK
Makers UK Limited UK
Phi Group Limited
5
UK
Systems Geotechnique Limited UK
Keller Ukraine LLC Ukraine
Anderson Drilling Inc. US
Anderson Manufacturing, Inc. US
Bencor Global Inc. US
Case Atlantic Company US
Case Foundation Company US
Cyntech US Inc. US
EB Construction Company US
EB Keller Holding Company US
Geochemical Corporation US
Hayward Baker, Inc. US
10 Group companies continued
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 104
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Subsidiary  
undertaking
Country of  
incorporation
HB Puerto Rico, L. P. US
HJ Foundation Company US
HJ Keller Holding Company US
Keller Environmental Inc. US
Keller Foundations, LLC US
Keller Holdings, Inc. US
McKinney Drilling Company, LLC US
McKinney Woodstock, Inc. US
Seaboard Foundations, Inc. US
Suncoast Post-Tension, Ltd. US
The Concrete Doctor, Inc. US
Keller Foundations Vietnam Company Limited Vietnam
1
 51% owned by Keller Fondations Speciales SAS and other Keller companies. 
2
 Ownership consists of 15% Ordinary A shares, 10% Ordinary B shares and  
75% Ordinary C shares.
3
 Ownership consists of 52% Ordinary A shares, 38% Ordinary B shares and  
10% Ordinary C shares.
4
 99% owned by Frankipile International Projects Limited. 
5
 Owned directly by the Company.
6
 Joint venture 50% owned by Keller Grundlaggning AB, based in Tuusula, Finland.  
The company is managed jointly by an equal number of directors from each of  
the two shareholder companies.
7
 67% owned by Keller Foundations SE Asia Pte Limited.
8
 Joint venture 50% owned by Keller Cimentaciones de Latinoamerica SA de CV Mexico, 
based in Mexico DF. No longer trading and due to be dissolved in 2016.
9
 70% owned by Keller Holdings Limited. 
10
 49% owned by Keller Holdings Limited. 
11
 65% owned by Keller Grundbau GmbH.
12
 75.1% owned by Keller Holdings Limited.
Keller Group plc has guaranteed the liabilities of the following subsidiaries in 
order that they qualify for the exemption from having to prepare individual 
accounts under Section 394A and Section 394C of the Companies Act 2006 
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015:
Company Registered number
Keller Financing 04592933
Keller EMEA Ltd 02427060
Keller Angola Limited 09267942
Keller Angola Properties Limited 09267936
 
Keller Group plc has guaranteed the liabilities of the following subsidiaries  
in order that they qualify for the exemption from audit under Sections  
479A to 479C of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2015:
Company Registered number
Keller Holdings Limited 02499601
Keller Resources Limited 04592974
Keller Finance Australia Limited 06768174
Keller Finance Limited 02922459
10 Group companies continued
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 105 2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 857.7 955.1 1,196.6 1,037.9 1,068.9 1,154.3 1,317.5 1,438.2 1,599.7 1,562.4
EBITDA
1
104.9 125.8 144.3 113.2 85.0 71.4 91.9 124.2 141.9 155.5
Operating profit
1
89.3 107.4 119.4 77.3 43.3 28.9 48.3 77.8 92.0 103.4
Net finance costs
1
(5.6) (4.2) (6.2) (2.6) (3.7) (7.0) (4.8) (3.7) (6.9) (7.7)
Profit before taxation
1
83.7 103.2 113.2 74.7 39.6 21.9 43.5 74.1 85.1 95.7
Taxation
1
(30.7) (35.9) (35.9) (22.6) (11.0) (5.5) (13.5) (23.8) (29.7) (33.0)
Profit for the period before exceptional items 53.0 67.3 77.3 52.1 28.6 16.4 30.0 50.3 55.4 62.7
Exceptional items
2
3.8 – – – (17.1) – – (20.2) (56.6) (36.4)
Profit/(loss) for the period 56.8 67.3 77.3 52.1 11.5 16.4 30.0 30.1 (1.2) 26.3
Consolidated balance sheet
Working capital 54.8 55.7 92.2 85.0 106.7 119.8 97.6 124.1 104.1 97.1
Property, plant and equipment 114.6 155.8 254.7 264.4 275.0 266.1 248.5 281.9 295.6 331.8
Intangible and other non-current assets 66.3 94.5 124.3 131.8 122.9 116.4 112.1 202.8 203.4 183.0
Net debt (38.6) (54.5) (84.6) (78.8) (94.0) (102.5) (51.2) (143.7) (102.2) (183.0)
Other net assets/liabilities (38.0) (40.0) (84.0) (79.1) (79.8) (73.0) (71.3) (92.5) (154.6) (94.9)
Net assets 159.1 211.5 302.6 323.3 330.8 326.8 335.7 372.6 346.3 334.0
Key performance indicators
Basic earnings per share from continuing  
operations (pence)
1
79.0 97.6 111.1 78.8 44.0 24.8 45.9 73.0 75.3 86.4
Dividend per share (pence) 15.6 18.0 20.7 21.8 22.8 22.8 22.8 24.0 25.2 27.1
Operating margin
1
10.4% 11.2% 10.0% 7.4% 4.1% 2.5% 3.7% 5.4% 5.8% 6.6%
Return on capital employed
1,3
46.6% 44.6% 36.2% 19.3% 10.2% 6.6% 11.6% 16.7% 18.3% 20.5%
Net debt: EBITDA
1
0.4x 0.4x 0.6x 0.7x 1.1x 1.4x 0.6x 1.2x 0.7x 1.2x
1
 Before exceptional items.
2
 Exceptional items consist of a contract dispute provision, non-recurring tax credits, goodwill impairment charges and other non-trading items relating to acquisitions which are required to be 
expensed under IFRS.
3
 Calculated as operating profit expressed as a percentage of average capital employed. ‘Capital employed’ is net assets before non-controlling interests plus net debt and net defined benefit 
pension liabilities.
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106
Financial record North America
Bencor Global, Inc.
6811 Ash Street
Frisco 
Texas 75034
Telephone +1 972 247 6767
www.bencorinc.com
Case Foundation Company
1325 West Lake Street
Roselle
Illinois 60172
Telephone +1 630 529 2911
www.casefoundation.com
Geo-Foundations Contractors Inc
302 Main Street North
Acton
Ontario
Canada
L7J 1W9
Telephone +1 888 846 7858
www.geo-foundations.com 
Hayward Baker Inc
7550 Teague Road
Suite 300
Hanover
Maryland 21076
Telephone +1 410 551 8200
www.haywardbaker.com
HJ Foundation Company
8275 NW 80th Street
Miami
Florida 33166
Telephone +1 305 592 8181
www.hjfoundation.com
Keller Canada
Zone 3, Acheson Industrial Area
2-53016 – HWY.60
Acheson
Alberta
T7X 5A7
Telephone +1 780 960 6700
www.kellercanada.com 
McKinney Drilling Company
7550 Teague Road
Suite 300
Hanover
Maryland 21076
Telephone +1 410 874 1235
www.mckinneydrilling.com
Suncoast Post-Tension, Ltd
509 N. Sam Houston Parkway East
Suite 400
Houston
Texas 77060
Telephone +1 281 668 1840
www.suncoast-pt.com
South America
Keller Engenharia Geotécnica Ltda
Av. Embaixador Abelardo Bueno, nº 01.
Barra da Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro – RJ
CEP 22775-040
Condomínio Dimension Office Park
Bloco 1 – Ala F – Boulevard – Sala 702 a 708
Cep:22775-044 Rio de Janeiro – RJ – Brasil
Telephone +55 21 3590 7601
www.kellerbrasil.com.br
Europe
Keller Cimentaciones S.L.U.
c/ Argentina, 15
28806 Alcalá de Henares (Madrid)
Spain
Telephone +34 91 423 7561
www.keller-cimentaciones.com
Keller Fondations Spéciales
2 rue Denis Papin
CS 69224 Duttlenheim
67129 Molsheim Cedex
France
Telephone +33 3 88599200
www.keller-france.com
Keller Grundbau GmbH
Kaiserleistrasse 8
63067 Offenbach
Germany
Telephone +49 69 80510
www.kellergrundbau.de
Keller Grundbau Ges.mbH
Mariahilfer Strasse 127a
1150 Wien
Austria
Telephone +43 1 8923526
www.kellergrundbau.at
Keller Limited
Oxford Road
Ryton-on-Dunsmore
Coventry CV8 3EG
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 2 476 511 266
www.keller-uk.com
Keller Polska Sp. z o.o.
ul. Poznánska 172
05-850
Ozarów Mazowiecki
Warsaw
Poland
Telephone +48 22 733 8270
www.keller.com.pl
Middle East
Keller Grundbau GmbH
UAE Region
Office No. 408
Al Mansour Building
Damascus Street, Al Qusais
Dubai
UAE
Telephone +971 4 2575 188
www.kellerme.com
Africa
Franki Geotechnical (Pty) Ltd
674 Pretoria Main Road 
Wynberg
2090 Sandton 
South Africa
Telephone +27 11 531 2700
www.franki.co.za 
Asia
Keller Foundations (SE Asia) Pte Ltd
18 Boon Lay Way
#04–104 Tradehub 21
Singapore 609966
Telephone +65 6316 8500
www.kellerasia.com
Keller Ground Engineering India Pvt. Ltd.
7th Floor, Eastern Wing
Centennial Square 6A
Dr. Ambedkar Road
Kodambakkam
Chennai-600024
India
Telephone +91 44 2480 7500
www.kellerindia.com
Keller (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
B5-10 Block B, Plaza Dwitasik
Bandar Sri Permaisuri
56000 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Telephone +603 9173 3198
www.kellerasia.com
Resource Piling Pte Ltd
1 Upper Aljunied Link
#07-06 Block A
Joo Seng Warehouse
Singapore 367901
Telephone +65 6382 3400
www.resource-piling.com.sg
Australia
Austral Construction Pty Ltd
126 Hallam Valley Road
Dandenong
Victoria 3175
Telephone +61 3 9797 2700
www.australconstruction.com.au
Frankipile Australia Pty Ltd
Level 1
4 Burbank Place
Baulkham Hills
New South Wales 2153
Telephone +61 2 8866 1100
www.franki.com.au
Keller Ground Engineering Pty Ltd
Level 1
4 Burbank Place
Baulkham Hills
New South Wales 2153
Telephone +61 2 8866 1155
www.kellerge.com.au
Piling Contractors Pty Ltd
5 Jacque Court
Lawnton
Queensland 4501
Telephone +61 7 3285 5900
www.pilingcontractors.com.au
Vibro-Pile (Aust.) Pty Ltd
Building 4, Level 2
540 Springvale Road
Glen Waverley
Victoria 3150
Telephone +61 3 9590 2600
www.vibropile.com.au
Waterway Constructions Pty Ltd
Level 1, 104 Victoria Road
Rozelle
New South Wales 2039
Telephone +61 2 9555 2211
www.waterway.com.au
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 107
Principal offices Company secretary
K A A Porritt FCIS
Registered office
5th floor
1 Sheldon Square
London W2 6TT
Registered number 
2442580
Joint brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Auditors
KPMG LLP
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Principal bankers
Lloyds Bank plc
25 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7HN
Legal advisers
DLA Piper UK LLP
3 Noble Street
London EC2V 7EE
Financial public relations advisers
Finsbury
Tenter House
45 Moorfields
London EC2 9AE
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108
Secretary and advisers Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived  
from sustainable sources. Keller Group plc
5th floor
1 Sheldon Square
London W2 6TT
+44 (0)20 7616 7575
info@keller.co.uk
www.keller.co.uk
