 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Focusing on 
sustainable 
delivery
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Kier is a leading property, residential, construction and 
services group. We operate across a range of sectors 
including defence, education, health, housing, 
industrials, power, property, transport and utilities.
The Group employs over 24,000 people in its operations 
in the UK, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Hong Kong 
and Australia.
Our vision
Our vision is to be a world-class, customer-focused 
company that invests in, builds, maintains and renews 
the places where we live, work and play.
Our values
Enthusiastic Collaborative Forward-thinking
We make things happen: we are resourceful 
problem-solvers, who enjoy what we do and 
get the job done
We work together: we consult to reach the 
right solution and as a team achieve more
We look ahead: we positively challenge the 
way we do things to excel, we care about 
our customers and the service we provide
Find out how we 
will achieve our 
strategic goals  
– page 16 onwards
Contents
Strategic Report
1  Financial highlights
2 Kier at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6  Chief Executive’s strategic review
11  Creating sustainable value
12  Our markets
14 Our business model
16  Progress against our vision 
and strategic priorities
18 Our strategy in action
26  Key performance indicators
28  Resources and relationships
32  Risk management
33  Principal risks and uncertainties
38   Divisional review: Property
41   Divisional review: Residential
44 Divisional review: Construction
49 Divisional review: Services
54 Financial review
Governance Report
60 Chairman’s introduction
64 Board of directors
67  Leadership, effectiveness and accountability 
73 Relations with shareholders
74  Nomination Committee Report 
76   Risk Management and  
Audit Committee Report
82   Safety, Health and Environment  
Committee Report 
84   Remuneration Report
107  Directors’ Report
111 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
112 Independent auditor’s report
118 Consolidated income statement
119   Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
120  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
121  Consolidated balance sheet
122 Consolidated cash flow statement
123  Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
161  Company balance sheet
162  Notes to the Company financial  
statements
164  Principal operating subsidiaries 
and business units
166  Principal joint arrangements
167 Financial record
168 Corporate information
Front cover: The Mersey Gateway project, one of Kier’s infrastructure projects, uses innovative construction techniques including the creation of a temporary bridge 
and moving scaffold system to improve access to the bridge over the water.  
   
   
   
  
Achieve
top quartile
performance
and efciency
Ensure we have
investment in
technology and
back-ofce
systems  
Provide
sector-leading 
customer
experience 
Attract and 
retain highly 
motivated, 
high-performing
teams
6
5
4 3
Operate a 
safe and 
sustainable 
business   
Accelerate growth
to be a top three 
player in our 
chosen markets    
2
1
Renew Renew
Residential
Property
Construction
Services
Our six strategic priorities
What we do
How we work
Enthusiastic
Forward-thinking
Collaborative
Financial highlights
• Group revenue
2
 of £3.3bn up 13%
• Underlying operating profit
1,2 
of £103.7m (2014: £87.3m)
• Underlying earnings per share
1,2,3
of 96.0p (2014: 87.5p) up 10%
• Net debt position of £141m
ahead of expectations
(June 2014: £123m)
• Full-year dividend increased
by 20% to £47.3m (2014: £39.4m)
£3,276m
Group revenue
2
 (£m)
11 £2,084m
12 £2,000m
13 £1,919m
14 £2,907m
15 £3,276m
£39.5m
Reported profit before tax
2
 (£m)
11 £55.7m
12 £49.0m
13 £24.2m
14 £15.4m
15 £39.5m
£47.3m
Total dividend (£m)
11 £24.1m
12 £25.5m
13 £33.5m
14 £39.4m
15 £47.3m
£9.3bn
Order book (£bn)
11 £4.3bn
12 £4.3bn
13 £4.3bn
14 £6.2bn
15 £9.3bn
£85.9m
Underlying profit before tax
1,2
 (£m)
11 £52.5m
12 £58.3m
13 £45.9m
14 £73.7m
15 £85.9m
96.0p
Underlying earnings per share
1,2,3
 (p)
11 91.4p
12 107.4p
13 78.9p
14 87.5p
15 96.0p
55.2p
Dividend per share
3
 (p)
11 51.1p
12 52.7p
13 54.3p
14 57.6p
15 55.2p
£(141)m
Net (debt)/cash balances (£m)
11 £165m
12 £129m
13 £60m
14 £(123)m
15 £(141)m
Essential read
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Haydn Mursell answers the key 
questions about Kier's business
page 6 Our business model
Kier's breadth of capabilities 
provides a unique offer for clients
page 14
1
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 
2
 Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities as discontinued operations.
3
 Restated for the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction; see notes 11 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Kier at a glance
Kier offers a breadth of capabilities enabling 
us to bring together the right skills from 
across the business to provide an integrated 
offer to our clients.
1
 Stated before non-underlying 
items; see notes 2 and 4 to 
the consolidated financial 
statements.
2
 Continuing operations. 
Prior year comparatives 
restated to reflect the 
reclassification of the 
UK mining activities as 
discontinued operations.
3
 Equates to average net debt.
4
 Restated to reflect the 
creation of the Residential 
division, comprising 
elements previously 
included within 
the Property and 
Construction divisions.
Our capabilities
• Asset management
• Bespoke occupier solutions
• Joint ventures
• Owner occupiers
• Partnerships
• Project development
• Property development
• Project investment
• Regeneration
• Structured finance
Our capabilities
• Affordable housing
•  Li v i n g s p ac e
•  M ix e d - u se c omm u n i t i e s
•  Private residential housing
•  R e g e ne r a t i on
Property
 pages  
38 to 40
The Property division encompasses property 
development and structured finance. The 
division operates across a number of sectors 
but particularly the industrial, commercial, 
retail and leisure sectors as well as the 
public sector.
£22.7 m £(82.9)m
Underlying 
operating profit
1,4
 
(2014: £16.0m)
Average capital
3
 
(2014: £(61)m)
81
No. of employees
(2014: 63) 
Revenue
■ Property
 development
■ Structured
 nance
Residential
pages  
41 to 43
Kier Living, our residential business, includes 
private house building and affordable mixed 
tenure housing partnerships. Its clients 
include local authorities, housing 
associations and the private rented sector.
£11.2m £(262.7)m
Underlying 
operating profit
1,4
 
(2014: £7.7m)
Average capital
3
 
(2014: £(233)m)
613
No. of employees
(2014: 348) 
Revenue
■ Private house
 building
■ Mixed tenure
 housing
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2 Where we operate
The Group operates internationally 
in the following geographies:
Our capabilities
• Building
•  C iv i l e ng i n ee r i ng
•  C on st r u c t i on ma n a g e m e n t
•  E ng i n ee r i ng d e s i g n
•  Interiors and refurbishment
•  M e c h an ic a l an d   e le c t r ic a l
•  R a il s e r v i c e s
•  T e c hn ic a l s e r v ic e s
Our capabilities
• Design consultancy
•  Energy management services
•  En v i r o nm en t a l s e r v ic e s
•  F a c ili t i e s m a n a g em e n t
•  Highway maintenance and management
•  H o us in g m a in t e n a n c e
• ICT and back-office services
•  U t ili t i e s s e r v i c e s
•  W a t er w a y s er v i c e s
Construction
 pages  
44 to 48 
The Construction division comprises the UK 
building and civil engineering businesses and 
the international business. The division has 
an established position on strategic 
frameworks supported by its regional building 
presence and strong local supply chain 
partners. Kier is a sector leader in the 
education, healthcare and transport markets.
£37.7 m £3.3bn
Underlying 
operating profit
1,2,4
 
(2014: £30.2m)
Order book
(2014: £2.5bn)
2.2% 5,856
Underlying 
operating margin
1,2,4
(2014: 2.0%)
No. of employees
(2014: 3,720)
Revenue
■ Building
■ Major projects
■ Infrastructure
■ International
Services
 pages  
49 to 53
The Services division comprises capabilities 
in highways maintenance (both local 
authority and strategic highways), utilities, 
housing maintenance, facilities management 
and environmental services. The recently 
acquired activities of Mouchel’s consulting 
and local authority business processing 
operations, recently renamed Kier Business 
Services, are also included. 
£58.0m £6.0bn
Underlying 
operating profit
1
 
(2014: £53.3m)
Order book
(2014: £3.7bn)
4.7 % 17,021
Underlying 
operating margin
1
(2014: 4.8%)
No. of employees
(2014: 10,813)
Revenue
■ Highways
■ Utilities
■ Housing 
 maintenance
■ Facilities 
 management
■ Consulting
■ Other
• UK & Ireland
• Middle East
• Australia
• Hong Kong
• Caribbean
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chairman’s 
statement
“ I am pleased to 
report 2015 was 
another year of 
solid growth, building 
on the trend of 
previous years.” 
Group revenue
1
 for the year ended 30 June 2015 
increased by 13% to £3.3bn (2014: £2.9bn) and 
underlying operating profit
1,2
 increased by 19% to 
£103.7m (2014: £87.3m). Overall, underlying operating 
margins
1,2
 were robust at 2.2% in the Construction 
division (2014
3
: 2.0%) and 4.7% in the Services division 
(2014: 4.8%), in line with expectations. The Property 
division made a significant contribution with underlying 
operating profit
2
 of £22.7m (2014
3
: £16.0m) and the 
Residential division also performed well, with underlying 
operating profit
2
 of £11.2m (2014
3
: £7.7m).
Underlying profit before tax
1,2
 for the year of £85.9m 
(2014: £73.7m) and underlying earnings per share
1,2
 
of 96.0p (2014
4
: 87.5p as adjusted for the effect 
of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel 
transaction) were both in line with expectations.
We remain focused on our five-year strategy, 
Vision 2020, and its strategic goals which are 
aimed to increase the Group's profitability and 
scale of operations both organically and through 
acquisition, whilst continuing to improve the quality 
of our earnings. 
In June 2015, the Group completed the acquisition 
of Mouchel, the international infrastructure services 
and business services group, in line with the Group’s 
Vision 2020 goal to be top three in its chosen markets 
and thereby accelerating the delivery of the Vision 
2020 growth strategy. The acquisition brought together 
Mouchel’s leading position in the strategic highways 
services market and Kier’s presence in the local 
authority roads market. As such, it positions Kier 
as the sector leader in the growing UK highways 
maintenance and management market. 
£47.3m
Full-year dividend
(2014: £39.4m)
96.0p
Underlying earnings 
per share
1,2,4
(2014: 87.5p)
Having increased the Group’s size over the last 
two years, we are focused on continuing to improve 
the quality of our earnings and are simplifying and 
restructuring our business, investing in our future 
growth. Consequently, in early July 2015 we 
disposed of our fleet & passenger services business 
and our UK coal mining business has been prepared 
for sale.
Dividend
As a result of the acquisition of Mouchel, the 
proposed final dividend in respect of the year 
ending 30 June 2015 has been adjusted to take 
into account the increased number of shares in 
issue following the completion of the rights issue. 
To reflect the Board’s continued confidence in the 
Group, a total dividend for the year of £47.3m, 
a 20% increase (55.2 pence per share)
4
, is 
proposed. Subject to shareholder approval, the final 
dividend of 36.0 pence per share will be paid on 
27 November 2015 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 25 September 2015. 
A scrip dividend alternative will also be available.
The Board
As the Group continues to grow, it is important that 
we look at the composition of the Board. During this 
year, a number of senior management changes took 
place including Haydn Mursell formally taking up the 
role of Chief Executive in July 2014.
In January 2015, Bev Dew joined the Board as 
Finance Director. In March 2015, Nigel Brook 
(Executive Director – Construction and Infrastructure 
Services), Nigel Turner (Executive Director – 
Developments and Property Services) and Claudio 
Veritiero (Group Strategy and Corporate Development 
Director) joined the Board, reflecting the increased 
size and breadth of the Group. It was particularly 
pleasing that three of these four appointments were 
internal. As a consequence of this reorganisation, 
Steve Bowcott, Chief Operating Officer, left the 
Board and the business at the end of April 2015. 
These appointments are a strong addition to the 
Board ensuring the Group has the range of skills, 
experience and expertise at Board level to deliver 
its five-year strategy, Vision 2020.
On 31 July 2015, it was announced that Justin 
Atkinson will join the Board as a non-executive 
director with effect from 1 October 2015. With 
over 20 years’ experience at Keller Group, of which 
15 years were as Chief Finance Officer and then 
Chief Executive, Justin has a deep knowledge of the 
construction sector and operating internationally. 
I would like to welcome Justin to the Board.
1 
Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities 
as discontinued operations.
2 
Stated before non-underlying items; see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
3
 Restated to reflect the creation of the Residential division, comprising elements previously included within the  
Property and Construction divisions.
4
 Restated for the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction; see notes 11 and 24 to the 
consolidated financial statements. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4 Our people
As the Group increases in size, it is important to 
develop consistent and efficient working practices 
across our teams. We believe our values – 
enthusiastic, collaborative and forward-thinking – 
enable us to work effectively in partnership with our 
clients. I would like to thank all of our people for their 
commitment, professionalism and hard work during 
this year.
Outlook
I am pleased to announce we have delivered solid 
growth and increased profitability. Economic confidence 
is returning to our core markets and, furthermore, 
the acquisition of Mouchel represents a major step 
in accelerating the Group’s five-year strategy.
All our divisions have performed well. In Property, the 
market remains strong and we have ample support 
from funders and other investors. Following its 
expansion, our Residential division is well-placed 
to help address the national shortage of affordable 
housing. In Construction, the regional building 
business has an established position on public and 
private sector frameworks and our infrastructure 
business is benefiting from continued greater 
investment by the UK Government in infrastructure in 
the medium term, and internationally, the Middle 
East pipeline is strengthening. Our Services division 
will benefit from the £700m AMP6 contracts secured 
during the year and the Mouchel acquisition has made 
Kier the sector leader in the UK highways management 
and maintenance sector. We are committed to 
offering a full, integrated approach to our clients by 
maximising the breadth and combination of capabilities 
available in the Group, assisting them to address the 
budget challenges they face.
We continue to simplify the portfolio and restructure 
our businesses and invest in our future growth. We 
continue to improve the quality of our earnings to 
reflect the changing demands of our markets. With 
a £9.3bn order book, a strong balance sheet and 
continued progress on our Vision 2020 goals this 
year, we look forward to the future with confidence.
 
Phil White  
Chairman
Phil White  
Chairman
Governance highlights
The Governance Report on pages 60 to 111 provides details of our 
approach to governance and how it supported the delivery of our Vision 
2020 strategy during 2015. Key highlights of the year included:
 N om i n at i o n C om m i t t e e
 — Monitored the induction of a 
new non-executive director, 
Kirsty Bashforth;
 — Recommended the appointment 
of the four new executive 
directors appointed during the 
year; and
 — Led the search relating to the 
appointment of Justin Atkinson 
as a non-executive director.
Read more in the Nomination 
Committee Report on pages 
74 and 75.
 Ri s k M a na g e m e n t  
and Audit Committee
 — Oversaw PwC’s first year as 
the Group’s external auditor 
following shareholder approval 
at the 2014 annual general 
meeting (‘AGM’);
 — Assisted the Board to ensure 
that the information presented 
in this annual report is ‘fair, 
balanced and understandable’; 
and
 — Monitored the Group’s risk 
management and internal 
control processes.
Read more in the Risk Management 
and Audit Committee Report on 
pages 76 to 81.
Safety, Health and Environment 
(‘SHE’) Committee
 — Oversaw the behavioural safety 
self-assessment across the 
Group, setting a benchmark 
against which to measure and 
continuously improve the 
Group’s SHE performance; and
 — Worked with management to 
ensure that the Group’s SHE 
strategy supported the delivery 
of Vision 2020.
Read more in the Safety, Health 
and Environment Committee Report 
on pages 82 and 83.
Remuneration Committee
— Implemented the Company’s 
remuneration policy which was 
approved at the 2014 AGM with 
respect to all changes to the 
Board during the year; and
 — Reviewed the level of base 
salaries payable to the 
executive directors in the 2016 
financial year, together with the 
bonuses payable with respect 
to the 2015 financial year.
Read more in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 84 to 106.
Read our Governance Report 
for more  
– pages 60 to 111
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review
Chief Executive 
Haydn Mursell 
answers the key 
questions about 
Kier’s business and 
performance and 
outlines his vision 
for the future.
Q: What are the main issues you have focused 
on during your first year as Chief Executive?
At the start of the year, I set out four priorities – 
safety, performance, people and communications. 
You simply cannot compromise on safety and I am 
pleased to report a 14% year-on-year reduction in 
Accident Incidence Rate (‘AIR’) across our UK 
businesses. We encourage everyone to think about 
safety, to recognise that it is ‘in their hands’ and that 
we are all responsible for continuous improvement. 
We have set a target AIR of zero for the Group by 
2020, so there is still improvement to be made. 
We are also interested in our people’s health and 
wellbeing. Our wellbeing programme, launched this 
year, helps them to think effectively about diet and 
exercise and generally how to look after themselves.
Performance is about maintaining discipline and 
focus. We are focused on sustainable delivery and 
when we deploy cash or resources into the operations, 
we need to generate an appropriate return for the 
risk we assume. With the increase in the Group’s size 
over the last two years, we are continuing to focus on 
improving the quality of our earnings and simplifying 
our portfolio of businesses to match the changes in 
the market and our clients’ demands. As the economy 
improves, it is critical that we stay disciplined in our 
approach to capital allocation, our return on capital 
criteria and risk management. Accordingly, we have 
sold our fleet & passenger services business and 
propose to sell our UK mining operations, where 
discussions with a potential buyer are progressing well.
In order to deliver Vision 2020, we need to attract 
and retain quality talent. There is currently high 
demand for good people in our markets, so this 
requires special attention. While the strength and 
reputation of our brand helps us to attract people, 
we need to continue to be attractive to prospective 
recruits by offering them training, development and 
career opportunities. This year, we have established a 
number of sector-specific academies in our highways, 
utilities and housing maintenance operations, to 
ensure we have the skills required. 
More broadly, we are committed to investing in our 
future generation of talent by developing early 
careers programmes across the business, spanning 
a range of career entry levels from school leavers to 
post-graduates. We continue to recruit and develop 
a high number of apprentices, day release and 
undergraduate placements and this year introduced 
a Level 3 Kier Technical Apprenticeship programme 
working in partnership with the Learning Skills 
Partnership. Upon successful completion, there 
is the option to progress onto the Kier Degree 
programme which has been in operation for the 
past eight years. We are investing heavily in the 
recruitment and development of graduates, both 
from construction and non-construction disciplines, 
with 115 graduates recruited during 2015. We are 
also proud members of The 5% Club.
How we will achieve 
our vision  
– pages 16 and 17
Safety Profit growth
Zero
Harm
> 10%
CAGR
Shareholder return Customers
Progressive  
dividend +90%
Customer 
satisfaction
Property Residential
> 15%
ROCE
> 15%
ROCE
Construction Services
> 2.5%
EBITA
> 5%
EBITA
Vision 2020
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6 It’s important that everyone is kept informed about 
our performance and plans, so that they know what 
Kier stands for, our achievements and also understand 
how they can contribute to the Group’s success. 
Our annual employee roadshows and regular news 
updates and forums give our people a chance to 
learn about our progress and for the leaders of the 
business to listen to feedback.
During this first year, I have met a number of our 
clients and employees and will continue to do so. 
It is through this level of engagement that I can 
understand clients’ issues and concerns. I have 
also visited many of our sites and I continue to be 
impressed by the dedication and commitment of our 
teams, including those from our supply chain partners. 
I would like to thank our employees for all their hard 
work and support during the year.
Q: What aspects of this year’s results pleased 
you the most?
I am pleased that Kier experienced solid growth this 
year. Once the uncertainty surrounding the outcome 
of the UK General Election reduced, the confidence 
of our investors and clients improved, which is 
reflected in our revenue and our growing pipeline 
of opportunities. 
We continued to progress towards Vision 2020, 
increasing the Group’s underlying profitability and 
scale of operations both organically and through 
acquisitions, and we increased the quality of 
our earnings. 
Q&A
with Haydn Mursell  
Chief Executive
£3.3bn 
+13%
Group revenue
1
(2014: £2.9bn)
£103.7m 
+19%
Underlying 
operating profit
1,2
(2014: £87.3m)
£9.3bn
Combined Construction 
and Services order book
(2014: £6.2bn)
1
 Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities as discontinued operations.
2
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our Property division continues to successfully invest 
the Group’s free cash flow in predominantly non-
speculative developments and our Residential 
division is benefiting from the supply and demand 
imbalance in UK housing. In Construction, the quality 
of opportunities is improving, with the risk profile of 
new work lower than it has been for some years. In 
our Services division, we now have leading positions 
in important growth sectors such as highways, 
through the acquisition of Mouchel, and a new 
£200m maintenance contract with Northamptonshire 
County Council, an existing client, as well as in the 
utilities sector through the asset management plan 
(‘AMP’) water bidding cycle, where we secured 
significant new business with clients such as Anglian 
Water and Thames Water. 
Q: Where can you improve?
We offer a range of capabilities designed to deliver 
a breadth of services for clients, to suit their 
requirements. This year we have shown our ability to 
do this with new partnerships with Northamptonshire 
County Council and with Staffordshire County Council 
and the Police and Crime Commissioner for 
Staffordshire. These partnerships illustrate how 
clients want to work more broadly with the Group 
and provide opportunities for us to promote the full 
range of services to our clients. It is anticipated that 
the requirement for a broad set of capabilities, 
particularly by local authorities and affordable 
housing providers, will increase following the 
Government’s recent Budget.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review continued
Mouchel – a 
compelling 
strategic 
rationale
On 8 June 2015 the Group acquired MBRL 
Limited (‘Mouchel’) for £265m. 
The transaction:
• Creates a sector leader in the growing 
UK highways management and 
maintenance market;
• Provides an integrated capability in 
the highways and utilities sectors;
• Further enhances Kier’s service offering 
in the local authority markets; and
• Expands the Group’s international 
presence.
Q: What will drive growth to 2020?
We are pleased with our progress against 
Vision 2020 and we expect the business to grow 
in the coming year. Looking over the medium term, 
infrastructure is a particular growth market. The 
UK Government has committed to investing in the 
transport system, with a particular focus on building 
roads and railways. Meanwhile, the impending 
reduction in the UK’s power generation capacity 
will also need to be addressed to service current 
and future power demands. We have capabilities in 
these sectors through our highways capital works 
and maintenance activities; in rail, on Crossrail, our 
new joint venture for HS2 and through our broader 
relationship with Network Rail. In power, we have an 
established track record in the sector, having built 
10 of the last 14 gas-fired facilities in the UK, and 
we are currently working at Hinkley Point C nuclear 
power station.
In the services market, the budget challenges for 
local authorities continue to drive a need for new 
ways to manage assets, value and how best to 
deliver essential local services. This is expected to 
lead to an overall increase in outsourcing opportunities 
that require a broad range of capabilities of the type 
we can provide.
Our Residential division seeks to address the 
continuing shortage of affordable UK housing 
stock as overall production remains well below 
the Government’s annual targets. Recent changes 
to the ‘Right-to-Buy’ policy and funding for registered 
providers is likely to lead to greater public and private 
collaboration on housing schemes which the Group 
is equipped to address. We believe that the 
affordable housing market will see the greatest 
growth and with the public sector already owning 
land suitable for housing, our aim is to assist them 
in deriving value through housing development.
The growth we envisage will require us to continue 
to invest in the Group and particularly in our systems. 
The planned investment in our human resources and 
finance change programme, BOOST, will underpin 
continuing improvement in the efficiency of our 
operating model which over time will increase the 
efficiency of our operating model which will 
consequently increase the quality of our margins.
Q: What balance sheet structure do you need 
to deliver Vision 2020?
As set out in Vision 2020, we are committed to 
achieving a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.0x by 2017 
and we are well on course to meet that commitment. 
An appropriate level of debt is tax efficient and 
allows us greater flexibility to invest for the future, 
to generate attractive returns for a modest cost while 
interest rates are historically low. Our target balance 
sheet structure is designed to be both efficient 
and prudent.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8 Q: What does the Mouchel acquisition mean 
for Kier?
Following the acquisition of Mouchel, Kier has 
become the sector leader in the growing UK highways 
management and maintenance market, at a time 
when the new UK Government has significantly 
increased the highways budget. More than 70% of 
Mouchel’s business is in strategic highways which, 
when combined with Kier’s highways work with local 
authorities, provides considerable opportunities 
for synergies.
We are now well-positioned to benefit from the new 
Road Investment Strategy which sets out a long-term 
investment of £17bn to maintain, renew and enhance 
the strategic road network between 2015-2020, 
with annual expenditure increasing from £2.9bn to 
£4.1bn over the same period. Our greater presence 
in the highways sector also accelerates our strategy 
for growth more broadly across the infrastructure 
market. When looking across the infrastructure, 
construction and maintenance activities, the business 
now has total revenue of more than £1.5bn in the 
UK, with further significant growth opportunities.
Mouchel also has an outsourcing business, principally 
aimed at local authorities and public sector clients, 
such as the emergency services. I am excited by the 
opportunities that Mouchel’s local authority clients 
could provide to us. I am also pleased that we are 
progressing with the smooth integration of the Mouchel 
business and have retained its core management 
team, ensuring continuity and stability.
Q: What are the risks to your growth?
The detailed risks to our business are set out in more 
detail later in the report. However, our focus needs 
to remain on being selective in bidding for new work. 
To deliver our growth plans, we need to maintain 
our disciplined tender processes and contract risk 
management practices. We believe that our pre-
contract risk management process is good and this, 
combined with highly capable delivery teams, is 
essential to the Group’s sustained performance. 
We therefore need to have the right people to bid 
for and deliver contracts and to service our clients, 
together with the leadership and drive to develop 
our business. I believe the new Board appointments 
announced this year give us the experience and 
expertise to do this.
Q: The construction sector has a history of 
problems. How have you avoided them?
At Kier, we have made a significant investment in 
managing pre-construction risk, reflecting the fact 
that this is the stage where it is important to 
discover, and resolve, potential difficulties with a 
project. We also carry out a large number of projects 
with relatively modest capital values and shorter 
durations, which helps to reduce the overall risk. 
A significant number of our projects are 12 to 15 
months long, which limits our exposure to inflation 
or other supply chain risks. In addition, our position 
on a large number of frameworks enables us to 
manage risk effectively.
Q: How about the international business?
We anticipate our international business will deliver 
10% of the Group’s revenues by 2020. However, we 
recognise that, although higher margins are available 
to us in overseas markets, risk management remains 
imperative. We will, therefore, remain selective in 
our international expansion. In Hong Kong, work 
is progressing on our two major rail contracts for 
Mass Transit Railway Corporation (‘MTRC’), although 
these remain challenging, with project delays being 
experienced across the entire rail programme, and 
we are working with MTRC to resolve these issues. 
We have a long-established track record of operating 
in the Caribbean and the Middle East. The market 
in Dubai is currently providing us with a number of 
opportunities and our Middle East presence has 
been further strengthened by the capabilities offered 
by Mouchel. The acquisition of Mouchel has also 
brought new operations in Australia, principally 
through the DownerMouchel joint venture. 
Q: What makes Kier’s culture special?
When the business listed in the 1990s, a large 
percentage of the shareholders were employees, 
who naturally had a keen interest in our performance 
and direction. Our people remain very engaged with 
the Group’s performance and strategy. 
We are focused on creating a consistent culture 
across the Group following the recent acquisitions. 
When we bought Mouchel and May Gurney, we spent 
considerable time understanding their cultures and 
whether they complemented Kier’s. We also focus 
on inducting employees into the Group, so that they 
have an understanding of our core values, how we 
work and what is expected of them.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review continued
Q: How does Kier benefit from its broad 
capability offering?
Kier offers a breadth of capabilities. The key is being 
able to bring together the right skills from across our 
businesses, to solve our clients’ problems by providing 
an integrated offer. Our breadth of services means we 
can help clients to finance, plan, design, construct 
and maintain their assets. One of my responsibilities 
is to ensure that Kier’s senior managers are familiar 
with our full range of capabilities, so they can help 
clients to understand how we can best support them.
The Group’s breadth of services also provides a 
natural hedge, as the financial performance of our 
divisions is typically different through the economic 
cycle. This is particularly highlighted by the Group’s 
resilient performance during the recent recession 
where different parts of the Group were able to 
support other parts.
Q: Why do clients choose Kier? 
Our aim is to deliver what we say we will deliver, to 
budget, to time and to the right quality. We believe 
that our integrity means that clients know what they 
will get from us, as demonstrated by the level of 
repeat business we secure. We are also selective 
about the projects we bid for and we believe that this 
bidding discipline is absolutely key to maintaining 
sound risk management processes.
Q: Why is your share price lower than before 
the Mouchel acquisition and rights issue?
The share price was affected by the rights issue 
under which we issued 39,646,692 new shares 
at 858 pence each to fund the Mouchel acquisition. 
This reduced the average value of our shares. 
However, shareholders had the right to buy new shares 
at the discounted price or they could sell their rights 
if they decided not to take them up.
Q: What should we expect from the Group over 
the next 12 months?
My priority remains to deliver Vision 2020. Following 
the acquisition of Mouchel, we are integrating those 
operations, ensuring we deliver the annualised 
pre-tax cost synergies of £10m from 2017. In 
addition, we now have an increased infrastructure 
presence and this creates additional opportunities.
As the economy improves and our pipeline of work 
increases, we need to maintain our bidding discipline 
and remain strict about our financial hurdles and 
other key performance indicators. We will also 
consider divesting those businesses which do not 
meet those standards. We are focused on continuing 
to improve the quality of our earnings and will be 
reviewing our portfolio of businesses to reflect the 
changing demands of the market.
We remain committed to maintaining our integrated 
approach, offering our services to help clients to 
address their budgetary challenges. Following strong 
results in 2015, we are able to look to the future 
with confidence.
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 59, 
has been reviewed and approved by the Board 
of directors on 16 September 2015.
 
Haydn Mursell 
Chief Executive
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10 Sustainable 
business
Strategic priorities
Driving our plan
Principal risks  
and opportunities KPIs
Measuring our progress
Vision 2020
Key performance indicators (‘KPIs’)
We have performed well against the majority 
of our KPIs against which we monitor our 
performance.
Risk management, principal risks 
and uncertainties 
The Group has well-established risk 
management and internal control systems 
to manage the principal risks and 
uncertainties it faces.
Our markets 
We are operating in a generally 
positive market overall, 
with good pipeline visibility. 
Investment in key market 
sectors, such as education 
and infrastructure, together 
with changes in public sector 
spend, provide a positive 
backdrop for our growth plans.
Our business model 
Vision 2020 is our strategic 
plan to grow the scale, 
coverage and profitability of 
the Group, delivered through 
our business model.
Our vision 
Our vision is to be a 
world-class, customer-
focused company that 
invests in, builds, maintains 
and renews the places where  
we live, work and play. 
Creating sustainable value
Our strategic  
priorities
1. Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
2. Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
3. Achieve top quartile 
performance and 
efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
4. Provide sector-leading 
customer experience
5. Attract and retain 
highly motivated,  
high-performing teams
6. Ensure the business is 
supported by investment 
in technology and back-
office systems
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
We create a sustainable 
business by aligning our 
strategic priorities, 
managing our performance 
to address the risks and 
opportunities that we face 
and using our experience 
and ambition to drive 
our growth through our 
strategic priorities.
Page 12
Pages 26 and 27 Pages 32 to 37
Page 14 Page 16
Context
Measuring 
success
Below we summarise the key elements that lead 
to the creation and protection of sustainable value. 
Our focused and integrated approach has already 
delivered tangible returns for shareholders.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Our markets
We are operating in a generally positive market 
environment overall, with good pipeline visibility. 
The following information summarises some of the 
key macro-economic and market trends affecting 
our business and contains data and information 
extracted without material adjustment from publicly 
available information or sources.
1
The UK currently provides a positive environment 
for Kier. The UK economy is growing at a consensus 
annual rate of 2.6% and is forecast to grow at similar 
rates to 2020. A new majority Government provides 
policy stability. Government tax revenues have risen 
by 25% since 2009/10. Household spending rose by 
4.2% in the year to June 2015 and business 
investment is up by 5.7% year-on-year. The UK was 
the third largest country for foreign direct investment 
in 2014 and continues to be attractive.
Overall, the UK economy has proved resilient 
to the effects of recent global political and  
economic instability. 
Real GDP growth scenarios
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
05 07 09 11
Year Sources: ONS, OBR
Percentage change on a year earlier
13 15 17 19
 
UK infrastructure spend has strong visibility. 
Infrastructure improvement is central to the UK 
Government’s policy, as a means of creating further 
economic growth and to address historic under-
investment. Strategic highways has confirmed spend 
of c.£21bn to 2021 and, within the regulated utilities, 
the water sector alone will see £44bn of investment to 
2020. Future spend on the rail network, where £38bn 
of expenditure in the 2014–2019 control period had 
previously been announced, is now subject to a 
Government review.
The Budget announcement of a Roads Fund to support 
a second Roads Investment Strategy, plus additional 
planned major infrastructure schemes, such as 
HS2 and Crossrail2, all add to a significant long-term 
pipeline of opportunity.
The UK Government’s austerity programme 
provides an opportunity to differentiate. The 
pace of fiscal consolidation has eased, reducing its 
drag on growth. The austerity programme clearly 
creates a challenge for our public sector clients, 
particularly local government, which has an obligation 
to provide services to the public.
Over the last five years we have worked with a number 
of clients to develop better use of their property 
assets and innovative ways of delivering services 
within the budgets and resources they have available.
Kier offers a breadth of capability. Our breadth 
means we can help clients to finance, plan, design, 
construct and maintain their assets, and to 
optimise whole-life costs. We will continue 
to engage with the public sector in this way. 
Activity in our main international markets 
remains resilient to commodity market 
fluctuations. In the Middle East, investment is being 
driven by fundamental drivers, notwithstanding the fall 
in oil prices. These include the need to diversify their 
economies and create infrastructure, healthcare, 
schools and housing for their growing populations.
The Australian economy is forecast to grow, driven 
by population growth, improving Government 
finances, increased freight, and further expansion 
of the road network. The federal government is 
focusing on infrastructure spending, and, in particular, 
transport infrastructure to stimulate the ‘post-
resources’ economy – an A$11.6bn Infrastructure 
Growth Package was included in the 2014 Budget.
Demographic changes are creating 
opportunities. In the UK, the number of people 
aged over 65 has increased by 17% since 2003 and 
is forecast to increase further. The ageing population 
will continue to drive expenditure on health, care 
services and a changing profile to residential 
property needs.
Almost 60% of population growth for the next 
25 years is forecast to come from the net effect of 
more births than deaths. This population growth will 
create demand for more schools, universities and 
better social infrastructure. 
At the same time social and lifestyle changes, such 
as the increase in single person households (5.5% 
growth over the last 10 years) and older people 
downsizing, will increase the demand for housing 
and change the type of housing demanded. 
Total infrastructure output
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
07 08 09 10 11 12
Year
£million – 2011 constant prices
Forecast
13 14 15 16 17 18
Sources: ONS, Construction Products Association
1
 Sources: HM Treasury; 
HMRC; Office for 
National Statistics; UK 
Trade & Investment; 
Capital Economics; 
Al Arabiya/Saudi 
Gazette; Savills; 
Construction Products 
Association; Financial 
Times; Institute for 
Fiscal Studies; BDO; CBI. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12 Property
We have significant opportunity to further penetrate 
property markets by combining our non-speculative 
development offering, our equity investment capability 
and our integrated offering.
• Low interest rates and improved market confidence 
are key influences on future market growth.
• At a regional level in the UK, private sector commercial 
development activity is growing in the South East, 
London and the regions. As at July 2015, the South East 
saw its highest level of activity for 16 months,  
whilst London and the rest of the UK were seeing the 
fastest rate of expansion since May 2014 and October 
2014 respectively.
• In terms of sectors, industrial/warehouses, retail 
and leisure and commercial offices have all reported 
consistently strong growth.
Residential
Operating in the housing development and building 
markets, our residential housing activities will benefit 
from the growth in the housing market, driven by an acute 
shortage of housing. 
• Estimates suggest that there is a requirement for 
240,000 new homes per annum in England, compared  
with current output levels of circa 140,000 per annum. 
• Housing demand has been increasing, with the RICS new 
buyer enquiries balance at its highest level for more than 
12 months. This is being supported by rising earnings 
and improving consumer confidence.
• Completed housing transactions are forecast to grow 
year-on-year beyond 2017.
• Government measures to ease the planning permission 
framework and release public sector land for housing 
development, together with the proposed extension 
of Right to Buy to housing associations are expected 
to increase further the demand for affordable 
housing construction.
Construction
We have a leading position in regional building and in the 
health and education marketplaces, with a growing 
presence in infrastructure and defence.
• Overall construction activity is growing faster than the UK 
economy; total construction output grew at 9.5% in 2014 
and is forecast to grow by 21% from 2014 to 2019.
• Annual expenditure on infrastructure construction is 
expected to rise by 72% cumulatively from 2014 to 2019.
• Annual construction expenditure in the commercial 
sector is forecast to rise by 23% from 2014 to 2019, 
driven particularly by activity in offices. Whilst London 
accounts for about a third of the activity in offices, growth 
is also forecast in other major cities and the regions.
• Construction expenditure on education and health 
forecast to grow by about 13% from 2014 to 2019.
• Overall defence spending is now protected at 2% of 
GDP, with the detail of the breakdown subject to the 
2015 Strategic Defence and Security Review (‘SDSR’). 
It is expected that the SDSR will continue to support 
an active development of the MOD’s property estate 
to meet changing operational needs.
• Construction in GCC countries is expected to show 
double-digit annual growth until the end of 2016 to 
US$126.2bn.
Services
In the UK, we have good positions in the highways 
maintenance, water utilities and housing maintenance 
markets, an established position in facilities management 
and opportunities in adjacent markets. We now also 
have a leading position in the Australian roads 
maintenance market.
• The strategic highways market has significant visibility 
under the Roads Investment Strategy (‘RIS’) for 2015 
to 2020 and the announcement of a second RIS funded 
by a new Roads Fund.
• The water utilities market has mandated spend by 
Ofwat, under AMP6, of £44bn from 2015 to 2020.
• ‘Austerity’ measures continue to put pressure on public 
sector budgets, creating both challenges and 
opportunities for outsourcing and innovation. The details 
of the UK Government’s Spending Review on specific 
central and local government budgets are due to be 
published later in 2015. However current estimates 
suggest that non-protected areas of expenditure will 
face cuts of 12.6% between 2015 and 2020.
• In Australia, total outsourced expenditure on highways 
and arterial roads maintenance is forecast to grow by 
22% from 2015 to 2019 and reach A$2.2bn, in part 
driven by a predicted increase in the outsourcing rate 
from 55% to 63%.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168              
                          
                       
                      
  
Achieve
top quartile
performance
and efciency
Ensure we have
investment in
technology and
back-ofce
systems  
 
Provide 
sector-leading 
customer
experience 
Attract and 
retain highly 
motivated, 
high-performing
teams
6
5
4 3
Operate a 
safe and 
sustainable 
business   
Accelerate growth
to be a top three 
player in our 
chosen markets    
2  
                                                   
1
Renew Renew
                                                   
Residential
Property
Construction
Services
Our six strategic priorities
What we do
How we work
Enthusiastic
Forward-thinking
Collaborative
Our business model
Vision 2020 is our strategic plan to grow the scale, coverage 
and profitability of the Group. Our business model provides 
the foundation and rationale underlying this growth strategy. 
Our strategic priorities
We will build continually on our business model 
to enable us to achieve our growth plans and 
implement our Vision 2020 strategy.
This requires us to invest in and develop further 
the core capabilities of the Group. In particular, we 
will seek to maintain strong client relationships by 
delivering sector-leading customer experience. 
It also requires highly motivated teams aligned to 
our strategy and our values, and robust technology 
and back-office systems to underpin our efforts.
Our strategic priorities are focused on building 
such capabilities.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14 Our divisions deliver  
for our clients...
Property Residential Construction Services
…each able to create 
opportunities for 
other divisions… 
...and offer 
integrated solutions 
for our clients
Cash generated by 
contracting activities 
is invested to generate 
additional returns...
...which collectively we 
translate to improved 
shareholder returns
Invest Build
Renew
Maintain
Shareholder returns
Our integrated offer
The Group has a broad range of capabilities across its four 
divisions. This breadth means we can help clients to fund, 
plan, design, build and maintain their assets to optimise their 
whole-life cost. The Group’s structure works because our 
customer-focused approach enables us to develop opportunities 
for our different business streams through our strong and 
strategic client relationships. 
This approach means that we can maximise our returns using 
the cash generated by low capital intensive/cash-generating 
businesses to invest in high capital-intensive activities 
elsewhere in the Group.
In this manner we create value for our customers and for 
our shareholders.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
15
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Progress against our vision  
and strategic priorities
Our vision
Our vision is to 
be a world-class, 
customer-focused 
company that invests 
in, builds, maintains 
and renews the 
places where we 
live, work and play.
Our strategy – double-digit growth
Our strategy aims to leverage our integrated offering 
to deliver double-digit compound annual growth in 
operating profit through to 2020.
To maximise the opportunity for growth we need  
to exploit and invest in the development of our 
integrated offering.
To achieve Vision 2020, we have identified six 
imperatives:
1.  Operate a safe and sustainable business;
2.  Accelerate growth to be a top three player in  
our chosen markets;
3.  Achieve top quartile performance and efficiency; 
4.  Provide sector-leading customer experience, 
for clients and for their customers;
5. Attract and retain highly motivated,  
high-performing teams; and
6.  Ensure the business is supported by investment  
in technology and back-office systems.
Our priorities are set at a Group level with detailed 
targets and performance plans identified for each 
objective. These are further aligned and co-ordinated 
through the business plans of our four divisions.
Strategic priorities Achievement in 2015 Targets for 2016
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
• A 14% improvement in our UK business, offset in part by an 
increase in reportable incidents in our international business 
• An enhanced behavioural safety programme introduced and 
being rolled out across all our businesses
• Health and Wellbeing programme launched in July 2015 
• Launched our new Strategy for a Sustainable Business 
(‘Responsible business, positive outcomes’)
• Develop our approach to occupational health and associated 
reporting metrics
• Integrate Mouchel into the Kier corporate responsibility 
programme
• Embed the Group’s Strategy for a Sustainable Business within 
all our businesses
• Driver risk management programme to be rolled out 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
• A Group-wide sector business development capability is 
now established 
• Continued to penetrate our target market sectors, with strong 
positions in the transport, education, health and local 
government sectors
• Leading player in the UK and Australian strategic 
highways maintenance markets
• Acquisition of Mouchel has accelerated our growth and our 
position in key markets 
• Expanded our internal capability to target and deliver 
acquisition opportunities
• Integrate Mouchel
• Develop strong growth opportunities in our strategic and 
key accounts
• Evaluate new market sectors and take steps to enter 
where appropriate
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and 
efficiency
• Improved our underlying profit margins from 3.0% to 3.1% 
• Continued to extend our governance framework across the Group 
• Established a Group performance scorecard
• Disposal of our Fleet & Passenger Services business
• Disposal of our UK mining business
• Create synergies from the Mouchel acquisition
• Roll out standardised reporting processes across all businesses 
• Review the Group’s KPIs to ensure ongoing relevance and 
effectiveness in supporting the management of the business
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Provide sector-leading 
customer experience
• 90% of customers surveyed were totally or mostly satisfied 
with Kier 
• Completed year 1 of our ‘Listen, Act, Measure’ programme to 
measure client satisfaction in a consistent way across Kier
• Focused improvement activity on key stages and milestones 
of the customer journey
• Introduced a customer experience toolkit to support bespoke 
action plans for specific clients 
• Introduce consistent method to measure satisfaction and 
experience for our clients’ customers 
• Roll out client specific excellence plans to enhance the 
experience of our clients and their customers
• Continue to embed a culture of customer excellence
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Attract and retain  
highly motivated,  
high-performing teams
• During 2015 we focused on investment in our human resources 
capability and resources across the Group
• Management development programmes reviewed and 
conclusions built into a new approach to talent management
• Pulse employee engagement surveys introduced and taking 
place in between full surveys to give managers regular 
snapshots of progress
• Increased our graduate and apprentice intake and launched skills 
academies in our utilities, highways maintenance and housing 
maintenance businesses
• Develop a compelling employee offer and clear career pathways 
to recruit, develop and retain talented people across the Group
• Implement a single talent and succession management approach
• Design and implement a refreshed leadership development offer, 
aligned to the Kier values
• Implement a single performance management approach 
that clearly links individual and team objectives to the Kier 
strategic objectives
• Continue to build insight and take action to improve 
employee engagement
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Ensure we have  
investment in technology 
and back-office systems
• A new customer relationship management system has been 
successfully deployed to support business development and has 
had a high level of take-up
• Developed multiple Kier ‘apps’ to support the effectiveness and 
efficiency of business operations, with more being developed
• Planning and development of the new ERP system and HR and 
finance change programme
• Implement and commence the roll-out of the initial phases of 
our new ERP system and HR and Finance change programme
• Integrate Mouchel 
• Implement next generation frontline systems for Services 
division and progress roll-out
• Increase the penetration of Building Information Modelling  
(‘BIM’) across our Construction division
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16 90%
Clients totally or mostly satisfied 
with Kier
87 %
Kier’s BiTC score tracking year-on-year 
improvement in sustainability 
Strategic priorities Achievement in 2015 Targets for 2016
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
• A 14% improvement in our UK business, offset in part by an 
increase in reportable incidents in our international business 
• An enhanced behavioural safety programme introduced and 
being rolled out across all our businesses
• Health and Wellbeing programme launched in July 2015 
• Launched our new Strategy for a Sustainable Business 
(‘Responsible business, positive outcomes’)
• Develop our approach to occupational health and associated 
reporting metrics
• Integrate Mouchel into the Kier corporate responsibility 
programme
• Embed the Group’s Strategy for a Sustainable Business within 
all our businesses
• Driver risk management programme to be rolled out 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
• A Group-wide sector business development capability is 
now established 
• Continued to penetrate our target market sectors, with strong 
positions in the transport, education, health and local 
government sectors
• Leading player in the UK and Australian strategic 
highways maintenance markets
• Acquisition of Mouchel has accelerated our growth and our 
position in key markets 
• Expanded our internal capability to target and deliver 
acquisition opportunities
• Integrate Mouchel
• Develop strong growth opportunities in our strategic and 
key accounts
• Evaluate new market sectors and take steps to enter 
where appropriate
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and 
efficiency
• Improved our underlying profit margins from 3.0% to 3.1% 
• Continued to extend our governance framework across the Group 
• Established a Group performance scorecard
• Disposal of our Fleet & Passenger Services business
• Disposal of our UK mining business
• Create synergies from the Mouchel acquisition
• Roll out standardised reporting processes across all businesses 
• Review the Group’s KPIs to ensure ongoing relevance and 
effectiveness in supporting the management of the business
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Provide sector-leading 
customer experience
• 90% of customers surveyed were totally or mostly satisfied 
with Kier 
• Completed year 1 of our ‘Listen, Act, Measure’ programme to 
measure client satisfaction in a consistent way across Kier
• Focused improvement activity on key stages and milestones 
of the customer journey
• Introduced a customer experience toolkit to support bespoke 
action plans for specific clients 
• Introduce consistent method to measure satisfaction and 
experience for our clients’ customers 
• Roll out client specific excellence plans to enhance the 
experience of our clients and their customers
• Continue to embed a culture of customer excellence
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Attract and retain  
highly motivated,  
high-performing teams
• During 2015 we focused on investment in our human resources 
capability and resources across the Group
• Management development programmes reviewed and 
conclusions built into a new approach to talent management
• Pulse employee engagement surveys introduced and taking 
place in between full surveys to give managers regular 
snapshots of progress
• Increased our graduate and apprentice intake and launched skills 
academies in our utilities, highways maintenance and housing 
maintenance businesses
• Develop a compelling employee offer and clear career pathways 
to recruit, develop and retain talented people across the Group
• Implement a single talent and succession management approach
• Design and implement a refreshed leadership development offer, 
aligned to the Kier values
• Implement a single performance management approach 
that clearly links individual and team objectives to the Kier 
strategic objectives
• Continue to build insight and take action to improve 
employee engagement
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Ensure we have  
investment in technology 
and back-office systems
• A new customer relationship management system has been 
successfully deployed to support business development and has 
had a high level of take-up
• Developed multiple Kier ‘apps’ to support the effectiveness and 
efficiency of business operations, with more being developed
• Planning and development of the new ERP system and HR and 
finance change programme
• Implement and commence the roll-out of the initial phases of 
our new ERP system and HR and Finance change programme
• Integrate Mouchel 
• Implement next generation frontline systems for Services 
division and progress roll-out
• Increase the penetration of Building Information Modelling  
(‘BIM’) across our Construction division
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Our strategy in action
How this supports Vision 2020:
The acquisition brings 
together Mouchel’s 
leading position in 
strategic highways 
services and Kier’s 
presence in the local 
authority roads markets 
making Kier the sector 
leader in the growing 
highways market.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Mouchel 
Creating a sector 
leader in a 
growing market
The UK’s roads are a vital part of our national 
infrastructure and key to economic growth. As 
a result, the UK Government has significantly 
increased its investment in this area, making 
highways an even more attractive market 
for Kier. 
We have built a strong position in maintaining local 
authority roads and have begun to develop our 
business in the strategic roads market, through our 
place on Highways England’s collaborative delivery 
framework and the award of a £475m Smart 
Motorway Programme contract, in joint venture.
Our acquisition of Mouchel has transformed our 
position, making us a sector leader in highways 
management and maintenance and accelerating 
our progress towards Vision 2020. Critically, 
Mouchel’s strength in strategic roads complements 
our local authority business and gives us access to 
Highways England as a strategic partner. Highways 
England will invest £17bn in the strategic road 
network over the next five years, increasing the 
scale of opportunity available to us.
Mouchel’s commitment to excellent customer 
experience is second to none. The highways 
business was rated as the top key supplier out 
of 20 companies for alignment with Highways 
England’s strategy. In addition, their Area 3 
Asset Support Contract (‘ASC’), which covers 
central southern England, was the best performing 
of Highways England’s ASCs over the last 
12 months. Given the quality of Mouchel’s delivery 
and relationships, ensuring we retained its key 
people has been an important element of our 
acquisition integration process.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
19
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Our strategy in action continued
How this supports Vision 2020:
The UK infrastructure 
market remains a key 
sector for Kier in view 
of greater Government 
investment.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20 Mersey Gateway
Delivering one of 
the UK’s largest 
infrastructure 
projects
Merseylink, our consortium with Samsung 
C&T Corporation and FCC Construcción SA, 
is constructing the Mersey Gateway project 
– one of the largest current infrastructure 
initiatives in the UK. 
The centrepiece is a new six-lane toll bridge over 
the River Mersey, between Widnes and Runcorn, 
in addition to upgrades to more than 9km of local 
roads. The project is expected to create more than 
4,600 permanent jobs and contribute in excess 
of £60m a year to the local economy by 2030.
The project uses innovative construction 
methods including the creation of a temporary 
bridge and using a moving scaffold system to 
improve access to the bridge construction site. 
This increases efficiency and reduces the amount 
of costly work that must be undertaken on the 
water. We are also carefully protecting the local 
environment, using clearly defined access 
routes to protect nearby sites of special 
scientific interest.
We are committed to recruiting people from 
the local area and to employing apprentices, 
to develop the skills young people will need 
for a career in the construction industry. 
A joint venture is a learning and personal 
development opportunity for our staff. Through 
regular two-way communication and senior 
management visits, our joint venture employees 
bring that learning back into Kier.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Our strategy in action continued
How this supports Vision 2020:
The partnership 
accesses the Group’s 
broader property 
and strategic 
asset management 
capabilities, providing 
opportunities for 
growth through our 
integrated offering.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22 Staffordshire Strategic 
Property Partnership
Delivering a broad 
and integrated 
service through a 
unique partnership
This year the Staffordshire Strategic Property 
Partnership was formed by combining public 
and private sector skills and knowledge.
Kier began a ground breaking 10-year strategic 
property partnership with Staffordshire County 
Council and Staffordshire’s Police and Crime 
Commissioner (‘PCC’). Together, the public sector 
partners own around 450 properties in the county. 
Drawing on our broad integrated capabilities in 
development, regeneration, disposal, acquisition, 
construction, asset management and facilities 
management, the partnership will unlock value 
from surplus land and empty or under-used 
buildings, revitalising them to offer new jobs, 
homes and developments.
As part of the partnership, the Council and PCC 
provide details of their property assets, local 
needs and access to other public sector 
organisations, which may have adjoining assets 
that can be pooled with the partnership’s projects. 
Kier has appointed staff to the partnership, to 
provide expertise and advice on those assets, 
developing and managing the partners’ property 
assets. In return, we have first option on providing 
services to the partnership, subject to 
demonstrating value for money criteria. 
The partnership is unique in the breadth of 
services it commissions and in its operation. Its 
long-term strategic approach also allows it to 
undertake socially valuable projects that are not 
immediately financially viable on a stand-alone 
basis, by combining them with projects that 
achieve greater financial benefits. In its first year, 
the partnership will consider nearly 40 projects, 
ranging from facilities management and a new 
headquarters for the police to residential 
schemes including new office accommodation 
for the Council.
In addition, the county’s other public sector 
bodies can use the partnership to deliver their 
property-related initiatives. This will save them 
time and money compared with traditional 
procurement and access to expertise.
In summary, the partnership can achieve 
outcomes that neither party could deliver alone, 
improving overall client satisfaction.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Our strategy in action continued
How this supports Vision 2020:
Increasingly projects 
involve teams from 
across the Kier 
businesses. Kier holds 
a 16% equity stake in 
VIEW 58 and is also the 
development manager. 
This development 
showcases the 
capabilities of both 
our Construction 
and Property teams.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24 Victoria Embankment – VIEW 58
Enhancing our returns 
through sustainability
By taking an integrated and sustainable 
approach to construction, we develop 
attractive buildings that give our customers 
a great customer experience and a unique 
final product.
Through our joint venture with FORE Partnership, the 
pan-European real estate investment club for family 
offices and private investors, we are constructing, 
jointly funding and developing VIEW 58, a highly 
sustainable office building in central London. The 
project draws on capabilities from Kier’s Property 
and Construction divisions.
Sustainability is at the heart of the strategy 
being developed for the building. VIEW 58 is 
sensitive to the local area, being on the River 
Thames Embankment in London. The development 
is retaining the existing façade while creating highly 
functional contemporary offices behind it, diverting 
99% of the demolition waste from landfill and 
recycling it. The building is designed to exceed a 
BREEAM Excellent rating and incorporates green 
technologies such as a sophisticated building 
management system and solar photovoltaic 
panels that generate power from both their 
tops and undersides. 
VIEW 58’s integrated vision of sustainability goes 
beyond traditional carbon reduction. For example, the 
design provides collaboration and exhibition space, 
which will enable organisations using the building to 
come together and to engage with the community.
In July 2015, FORE and Kier announced VIEW 58’s 
sale for £50.95m to Nesta, a charity with a mission 
to drive innovation in the UK. The building’s 
sustainability standards were an important factor in 
Nesta’s decision. VIEW 58 supports Nesta’s values, 
reducing its running costs and providing a hub for 
organisations committed to innovation. 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
25
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Key performance indicators
Key performance 
indicator
Aim
Alignment to 
strategic priorities
Progress in 2015 Comment
Revenue 
growth
2
Deliver annual revenue growth in line 
with Vision 2020
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 £1,958m
14 £2,938m
15 £3,351m
In the year we achieved 14% growth 
in revenue, principally through organic 
growth, and achieved leading 
positions in the UK and Australian 
strategic highways markets.
Underlying 
operating profit
3
Maintain consistent underlying 
operating margins
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 £52.6m
14 £87.3m
15 £103.7m
19% growth in underlying operating 
profit, in line with our target to produce 
double-digit compound annual growth 
in profits through to 2020.
Underlying EPS
4
Achieve long-term growth in EPS
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 78.9p
14 87.5p
15 96.0p
We are focused on shareholder value 
and maximising sustained growth 
in EPS.
Underlying EPS has increased 10% in 
the period.
ROCE
(‘Return 
on Capital 
Employed’)
5
Achieve ROCE above the Group’s 
target of 15%
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 24.4%
14 14.8%
15 13.9%
Return on average capital employed 
decreased during the year reflecting an 
increase in underlying operating profit 
offset by net investment in the business 
and its systems, the acquisition of 
Mouchel and contributions to pension 
deficit recovery plans. 
As previously stated, the May Gurney 
and Mouchel acquisitions are targeted 
to deliver 15% ROCE by 2016 and 
2017 respectively.
Underlying  
economic profit
5, 6
Achieve steady growth in 
economic profit
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 £30.1m
14 £33.6m
15 £39.5m
We seek to generate returns that exceed 
our weighted average cost of capital, 
currently 8.6%, to ensure we add value 
from our investment decisions. 
The economic profit generated 
increased by 18% in the year to £39.5m 
as a result of increased profitability and 
a reduced cost of capital.
Debt cover
7
(net debt/ 
underlying 
EBITDA)
Ensure debt is conservatively managed 
to improve cover towards a medium-
term target of 1.0x underlying EBITDA
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 n/a
14 1.7x
15 1.6x
Moving towards our medium-term 
target of 1.0x EBITDA due to improved 
working capital management and 
increased profit.
Shareholder  
return
Maintain a progressive dividend policy 
and deliver annual growth
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
13 54.3p
14 57.6p
15 55.2p
The total dividend declared this year is 
£47.3m which represents a 20% 
increase on 2014 (£39.4m).
On a statutory basis, the dividend per 
share (‘DPS’) paid and proposed in the 
year of 55.2 pence is a 4% reduction on 
the restated DPS in 2014, as a result of 
the calculation of DPS assuming that 
the shares in issue following the rights 
issue associated with the Mouchel 
acquisition in June 2015 had been in 
issue for the full 12 month period.
Financial
1
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26 Key performance 
indicator
Aim
Alignment to 
strategic priorities
Progress in 2015 Comment
Safety – 
accident 
incidence rate 
(‘AIR’)
8
Achieve year-on-year improvement in 
AIR and remain below the Health and 
Safety Executive benchmark for the UK
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 506
14 342
15 319
We have achieved a 14% improvement 
in our UK business, partially offset by 
an increase in reportable incidents in 
our international business.
We have continued to drive 
significant improvement in the 
safety performance of the former 
May Gurney activities.
Customer  
experience
Deliver a high level of customer 
satisfaction which is key to supporting 
sustainable long-term growth across 
our markets and client base
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 n/a
14 n/a
15 90%
We have this year introduced a 
common and independently audited 
client satisfaction measure across all 
our businesses.
90% of our customers were totally or 
mostly satisfied with Kier. We had a 
Net Promoter Score in 2015 of +52. 
Employee  
engagement
Achieve a continuous improvement in 
the employee engagement survey score
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Construction 67%
Residential
Services
 77%
 48%
Property 63%
14
14
14
14
Full employee surveys are carried out 
biennially and the next survey will be 
in 2016. In between we carry out 
pulse surveys, the results of which in 
2015 have indicated an improving 
level of engagement. 
Employee  
retention
Retain employees at or above 
industry average
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 90%
14 88%
15 85%
In line with the experience of other 
UK businesses in 2014/15, as the 
economy recovered, the level of 
voluntary leavers increased in the 
year, but remains in line with 
industry averages.
Sustainability
9
Maintain a high ranking in Business 
in the Community’s Corporate 
Responsibility index
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
13 n/a
14 85%
15 87%
In 2014/15 we have delivered 
significant improvements in our 
approach to stakeholder engagement 
and launched our new Strategy for a 
Sustainable Business. 
1
 Financial information in this table relates to continuing operations. Prior years restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities to 
discontinued operations.
2
 Group and share of joint ventures.
3
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
4
 2013 and 2014 have been restated for comparison, reflecting the rights issue associated with the acquisition of Mouchel.
5
 During the year we revised our methodology for assessing capital employed to take account of the average capital employed at each month end during the 
year, rather than the balance at the end of the year. 2013 and 2014 have been restated for comparison.
6
 We calculate economic profit by taking underlying operating profit
3 
and subtracting average capital employed, multiplied by the weighted average cost of capital. 
7
 Our measure of debt cover has been updated to measure net debt divided by underlying EBITDA (as a proxy for operating cash flow). Net debt includes finance 
lease obligations. The Group held a net cash balance of £46.1m as at 30 June 2013.
8
 Accident statistics for 2013 and 2014 have been restated to include May Gurney, which was acquired in the 2014 financial year, on a pro forma basis in 
both years.
9
 Business in the Community (‘BiTC’), whose index we use, has recalibrated the index. We have reviewed this KPI, as we anticipated doing, and have restated 
2014 using the new index.
Non-financial
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Strategic priorities
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Operate a safe and sustainable business 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Accelerate growth to be a top three player in all our markets
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Achieve top quartile performance and efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Provide sector-leading customer experience
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Attract and retain highly motivated, high-performing teams
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Ensure we have investment in technology and back-office systems Resources and relationships
Responsible business, 
positive outcomes
For Kier to achieve and sustain the ambitious 
growth plans set out in its Vision 2020 strategy, 
it is essential for us to address and mitigate 
each identified non-financial risk which 
could compromise our financial targets.  
Our full Corporate Responsibility Report 
for 2015, ‘Enabling sustainable business’  
http://www.kier.co.uk/crr2015, expands 
upon this process.
In the year Kier has made great strides in evolving its 
Strategy for a Sustainable Business. This addresses 
and supports the changing dynamics of our broader, 
growing operations through a range of environmental 
and social measures, all integrated and aligned with 
the core non-financial strategic priorities, principal 
risks and opportunities and KPIs that underpin the 
Group’s stated financial targets. These are now being 
embedded within our individual business streams for 
consistent, measurable delivery across the Group. 
We have identified six immediate priority areas 
shown opposite.
Through in-depth engagement we have ensured the 
issues being addressed by our corporate responsibility 
programme are of material importance to our main 
stakeholders, particularly employees, clients and 
shareholders. This will enable us to deliver resource 
efficiencies and sustainable growth in our chosen 
markets in a responsible and ethical manner.
Focus area 2020 target 2014/15 progress* Comments
Vision 2020
People and  
communities
Safety, health and wellbeing Zero AIR AIR of 319 (2014: 342). Introduction 
of All Accident Incidence Rate as 
a leading metric
This leading measure will help us identify the contributing factors 
and avoid the occurence of serious accidents, creating a safer 
working culture
Employee engagement and retention 75% employee engagement rate Pulse survey introduced to measure 
progress from 2014
The more engaged our employees are, the better the customer 
experience which directly contributes to our future business success
Diversity 70:30 male to female ratio for  
new recruits 
Baseline being established for 
new recruits
Increasing the diversity of new hires will have the fastest impact 
on our diversity mix overall
Training, education and apprenticeships 5 training days per employee Baseline being established This is a measure of our commitment to invest in the learning 
and development of our people
Society and community 10% additional social value created Methodology being prepared to allow 
consistent measurement of outcomes
We generate financial benefits for society. We aim to express this 
value more clearly
Environment
Carbon 10% reduction from 2014 baseline 
(emissions/£)
2% reduction in intensity ratio achieved Our focus on managing emissions is helping to control cost 
of fuel
Waste 30% reduction from 2014. Measure and 
report progress
Waste/£ increased but volumes recovered 
and recycled increased 
Reducing waste helps to reduce environmental impacts and 
control costs
Water 10% reduction from 2015 benchmark Monitoring agreement reached with 
third party
Better monitoring will allow us to identify opportunities for more 
efficient use
Biodiversity 1 Biodiversity Interest Group challenge 
per £50m of revenue 
Monitoring system and procedures put 
in place. 22 challenge case studies 
completed (1 per £133m revenue)
We will continue to identify and realise opportunities to enhance 
biodiversity on our sites
Environmental incidents 25% reduction in All Environment 
Incidence Rate from 2015 benchmark 
Monitoring system and procedures 
put in place
We will avoid major incidents by paying greater attention to near 
misses and minor incidents
Marketplace
Customer experience 90% client and customer satisfaction 90% of clients satisfied with Kier’s 
performance. Net Promoter Score 
of +52 indicating high levels of loyalty
Delivering an excellent customer experience helps to secure 
future growth for Kier 
Citizenship and community engagement 80% (40/50) average score in Considerate
Constructors Scheme (‘CCS’)
77% (38.25/50) achieved We are planning to widen the CCS principles to our non-
construction and international operations
Sustainable supply chain Number of partners engaged in the 
Supply Chain Sustainability School
Increased by 10% This helps us to work with a better qualified supply chain
Labour standards and human rights Meet core principles of UN Declaration
of Human Rights
Refreshed responsible procurement policy 
agreed. Initial standards to be launched 
in 2015/16
This helps Kier to meet its ethical responsibilities and comply with 
the Modern Slavery Act. The standards provide clear guidance for all 
our procurement activities for social and environmental issues
Material standards 100% compliance with Kier material standards Measure and report compliance We will audit a sample of both our direct and sub-contract procurement
Governance
Stakeholder engagement Annual independent review of our strategy 
by Business in the Community (‘BiTC’)
One additional stakeholder engagement 
activity to understand their view of 
material issues
Kier will also be completing more detailed shareholder 
engagement
Governance – Reporting and assurance G4 – integrated reporting to Global 
Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) G4 standard
Reported to GRI G3 C+ standard Reporting to a common standard aids transparency and 
understanding of Kier’s strategic approach
Governance – Risk and opportunity Quantify risk across non-financial 
measures 
Identified critical non-financial issues Non-financial issues can still have a financial impact, both positive 
and negative. The challenge is to identify the best ways to convert or 
express these impacts in our overall approach to risk management
Business ethics Zero overdue whistle-blowing incidents Review of Group code of conduct Constant reviews of our business ethics policies ensure compliance 
with any new regulatory requirements and ensure our ethical 
approach to business and people
* Data related to non-financial performance does not include 
Mouchel for the period being reported.
Reward scheme Reward scheme non-financial performance Proposals under review Closer alignment of rewards to non-financial performance better 
reflects the value of these issues to business sustainability
Strategy for a sustainable business
             
                          
                       
                      
  
Achieve
top quartile
performance
and efciency
Ensure we have
investment in
technology and
back-ofce
systems  
 
Provide 
sector-leading 
customer
experience 
Attract and 
retain highly 
motivated, 
high-performing
teams
6
5
4 3
Operate a 
safe and 
sustainable 
business   
Accelerate growth
to be a top three 
player in our 
chosen markets    
2  
                                                   
1
Renew Renew
                                                   
Residential
Property
Construction
Services
Our six strategic priorities
What we do
How we work
Enthusiastic
Forward-thinking
Collaborative
Our five-year strategy for a sustainable business, 
launched in 2015, addresses many of the non-
financial strategic priorities, risks and KPIs identified 
in Vision 2020. Not only does the new sustainability 
strategy and its focus areas, listed in the table here, 
help to deliver the strategic priority to ‘Operate a 
safe and sustainable business’ but it also supports 
the other strategic priorities, particularly ‘Provide 
sector-leading customer experience’, ‘Attract and 
retain highly motivated, high-performing teams’ and 
‘Accelerate top quartile performance and efficiency’.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28 Safety, health and wellbeing
A target accident incidence rate of 
zero is Kier’s top priority. The ‘Visible 
Leadership’ programme launched in July 
2015 will challenge our business leaders 
to ensure they create an environment 
where everybody working on our behalf 
is safe.
Sustainable supply chain
We will develop relationships that satisfy 
our requirement for social and ethical 
procurement and to meet or exceed our 
clients’ expectations. Social and ethical 
procurement lets us achieve our ambitions 
to respect the human rights of everyone 
connected to our business either directly 
or through the supply chain.
Customer experience 
Our stakeholders identified their overall 
experience of dealing with Kier as being 
the most important issue to them. 
Delivering high levels of satisfaction to all 
of our customers is fundamental to our 
success as a business. Our ‘Listen, Act, 
Measure’ programme enables us to test, 
review and improve our performance to 
drive increased loyalty from our clients.
Mouchel
We are carefully integrating Mouchel 
into Kier’s Strategy for a Sustainable 
Business – ‘Responsible business, 
positive outcomes’. The integration will 
have a minimal impact on our day-to-day 
operations, but ensure we are all able to 
deliver our common goals as part of the 
Group’s overarching strategy, Vision 2020.
Emerging legislation and regulations
The operating landscape constantly 
changes. Recent examples of new 
responsibilities include the Social 
Value and Modern Slavery Acts which 
we have responded to in our Strategy for 
a Sustainable Business – ‘Responsible 
business, positive outcomes’.
Citizenship and community 
engagement
The reputations of Kier, our clients 
and our supply chain depend on how 
we deliver our services and engage with 
our stakeholders. We are in the process 
of developing a new code of conduct to 
help guide how we can make a positive 
contribution to the communities where 
we work.
Focus area 2020 target 2014/15 progress* Comments
Vision 2020
People and  
communities
Safety, health and wellbeing Zero AIR AIR of 319 (2014: 342). Introduction 
of All Accident Incidence Rate as 
a leading metric
This leading measure will help us identify the contributing factors 
and avoid the occurence of serious accidents, creating a safer 
working culture
Employee engagement and retention 75% employee engagement rate Pulse survey introduced to measure 
progress from 2014
The more engaged our employees are, the better the customer 
experience which directly contributes to our future business success
Diversity 70:30 male to female ratio for  
new recruits 
Baseline being established for 
new recruits
Increasing the diversity of new hires will have the fastest impact 
on our diversity mix overall
Training, education and apprenticeships 5 training days per employee Baseline being established This is a measure of our commitment to invest in the learning 
and development of our people
Society and community 10% additional social value created Methodology being prepared to allow 
consistent measurement of outcomes
We generate financial benefits for society. We aim to express this 
value more clearly
Environment
Carbon 10% reduction from 2014 baseline 
(emissions/£)
2% reduction in intensity ratio achieved Our focus on managing emissions is helping to control cost 
of fuel
Waste 30% reduction from 2014. Measure and 
report progress
Waste/£ increased but volumes recovered 
and recycled increased 
Reducing waste helps to reduce environmental impacts and 
control costs
Water 10% reduction from 2015 benchmark Monitoring agreement reached with 
third party
Better monitoring will allow us to identify opportunities for more 
efficient use
Biodiversity 1 Biodiversity Interest Group challenge 
per £50m of revenue 
Monitoring system and procedures put 
in place. 22 challenge case studies 
completed (1 per £133m revenue)
We will continue to identify and realise opportunities to enhance 
biodiversity on our sites
Environmental incidents 25% reduction in All Environment 
Incidence Rate from 2015 benchmark 
Monitoring system and procedures 
put in place
We will avoid major incidents by paying greater attention to near 
misses and minor incidents
Marketplace
Customer experience 90% client and customer satisfaction 90% of clients satisfied with Kier’s 
performance. Net Promoter Score 
of +52 indicating high levels of loyalty
Delivering an excellent customer experience helps to secure 
future growth for Kier 
Citizenship and community engagement 80% (40/50) average score in Considerate
Constructors Scheme (‘CCS’)
77% (38.25/50) achieved We are planning to widen the CCS principles to our non-
construction and international operations
Sustainable supply chain Number of partners engaged in the 
Supply Chain Sustainability School
Increased by 10% This helps us to work with a better qualified supply chain
Labour standards and human rights Meet core principles of UN Declaration
of Human Rights
Refreshed responsible procurement policy 
agreed. Initial standards to be launched 
in 2015/16
This helps Kier to meet its ethical responsibilities and comply with 
the Modern Slavery Act. The standards provide clear guidance for all 
our procurement activities for social and environmental issues
Material standards 100% compliance with Kier material standards Measure and report compliance We will audit a sample of both our direct and sub-contract procurement
Governance
Stakeholder engagement Annual independent review of our strategy 
by Business in the Community (‘BiTC’)
One additional stakeholder engagement 
activity to understand their view of 
material issues
Kier will also be completing more detailed shareholder 
engagement
Governance – Reporting and assurance G4 – integrated reporting to Global 
Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) G4 standard
Reported to GRI G3 C+ standard Reporting to a common standard aids transparency and 
understanding of Kier’s strategic approach
Governance – Risk and opportunity Quantify risk across non-financial 
measures 
Identified critical non-financial issues Non-financial issues can still have a financial impact, both positive 
and negative. The challenge is to identify the best ways to convert or 
express these impacts in our overall approach to risk management
Business ethics Zero overdue whistle-blowing incidents Review of Group code of conduct Constant reviews of our business ethics policies ensure compliance 
with any new regulatory requirements and ensure our ethical 
approach to business and people
* Data related to non-financial performance does not include 
Mouchel for the period being reported.
Reward scheme Reward scheme non-financial performance Proposals under review Closer alignment of rewards to non-financial performance better 
reflects the value of these issues to business sustainability
Our core sustainability priorities for 2015/16
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Resources and relationships continued
Our achievements in 2014/15
1
Environment
Breakdown of carbon emissions data
Relative emissions (intensity ratio) declined by 2% to 50.4 tonnes 
CO
2
e/£1m revenue. This can in part be attributed to the 
consolidation of our permanent estate and the move to more 
efficient offices. Our absolute emissions increased due to the 
first full-year inclusion of May Gurney which we acquired in 
2013. Our continued focus on the efficient use of energy in our 
business continues to see us move towards our target of a 10% 
reduction in emissions per £/revenue. Our ambition is to be 
able to assess and influence supply chain emissions to achieve 
the same.
Emission type CO
2
e tonnes
2013
CO
2
e tonnes
2014
Scope 1: Operation of facilities 0 0
Scope 1: Combustion 113,399 129,756 (+14%)
Scope 2: Purchased energy 12,192 15,634 (+28%)
Total emissions 125,591 145,390 (+16%)
Greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity ratio 2013 2014
51.5t/£m 50.4t/£m (-2%)
Turnover (£m) 2,439 2,885
Supporting context:
• We have reported on emissions sources as required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013. 
• We have excluded our Scope 1 fugitive emissions and we do 
not account for any share of any joint venture or joint agreements 
in our carbon footprints unless we are in majority control.
• Our dataset covers 92% of the total revenue of Kier. 
This is the figure that our emissions/£ are based on.
• The period of our report is 1 January 2014 to 31 December 
2014 to mirror our reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
• Our methodology has been based on the principles of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Conversion factors for electricity, 
gas and other emissions are those published by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 2014. 
Breakdown of business construction, demolition 
and excavation waste
The amount of construction, demolition and excavation (‘CDE’) 
waste Kier Construction sent to landfill in 2014 increased from 
8.2 tonnes/£100,000 revenue to 9.4 tonnes/£100,000 revenue. 
Also, over the same period the amount of waste produced 
increased from 37.2 tonnes/£100,000 revenue to 
44.5 tonnes/£100,000 revenue. 
The percentage of CDE waste diverted from landfill increased 
from 78% to 79%.
Construction division – CDE waste data
Year 
Tonnes of 
waste 
generated 
per £100k 
Tonnes of 
waste to 
landfill  
per £100k 
% of waste 
diverted 
from landfill 
per £100k
2012 52.3 9.7 81%
2013 37.2 8.2 78%
2014 44.5 9.4 79%
This dataset is for our Construction division only and represents 
32% of our Group revenue. We estimate this accounts for more 
than 80% of all waste produced.
Data from SMARTWASTE for all businesses – 
CDE waste
Year Re-used Recycled Landfilled
2013 39% 31% 29%
2014 40% 34% 26%
2015 41% 38% 21%
This data is collated from a sample representing 39% of Kier 
Group by revenue. We estimate this accounts for more than 
80% of all waste produced.
Social
Diversity, equality and human rights
Kier’s employment policies follow best practice and are created 
around equal opportunities for all employees irrespective of sex or 
sexual orientation, ethnicity, age, disability or marital status. Our 
constant is to recognise everyone as an individual, and that they 
have different needs but that they also bring different skills to our 
Group. We want employees to know they are working where they 
will be treated with dignity and respect and, as a consequence, 
feel enabled to make a contribution to Kier’s success. Our 
various employment, ethics and procurement policies are written 
to protect the human rights of our employees and parties engaged 
with our business. There have been no related issues during the 
financial year. 
Diversity of employees
Male Female
All employees 12,533 (80%) 3,180 (20%)
At senior manager grade 1,206 (93%) 84 (7%)
At director grade 5 (71%) 2 (29%)
Ethnicity
2
White – 54%, Black and minority ethnic groups – 3%  
Not stated – 43%
Community engagement
115,036
Employee hours 
(2014: 161,799)
£2.2m
Equivalent value 
of employee hours 
(2014: £2.9m)
Kier calculates the value of time given by its employees to 
volunteering by using a nominal value for each hour of £31. Kier 
recognises that a percentage of staff time is given to training/
supervising apprentices and uses a nominal value for each hour 
given to providing this support of £18. The hourly rates have 
been revised in line with the growth of the business which has 
seen a larger blue-collar workforce, which has resulted in the 
value of an hour’s volunteering being reduced from £44 to £31 
and the value of an hour given to support apprentices 
increasing from £16 to £18.
Considerate Constructors Scheme
Kier is an associate member of the Considerate Constructors 
Scheme. We use this independent scheme to assess the 
performance of our operational sites in the UK.
Average 
Group score 
Industry 
average
2014 37.62 (75%) 35.29 (71%)
2015 38.25 (77%) 35.74 (71%)
2020 target 40/50 (80%)
1
 Data related to non-financial performance does not include Mouchel for the period being reported.
2
 Data is based on a spot audit of UK employees (excluding overseas and Mouchel employees).
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30 We have been developing our approach 
to the non-financial elements of our 
Strategy for a Sustainable Business – 
‘Responsible business, positive 
outcomes’ (‘RBPO’). Through our 
engagement exercises with business 
leaders, employees, clients, shareholders 
and non-governmental organisations 
we sought to understand that these 
issues in RBPO were of most material 
importance in our relationship with them. 
The final results shown in the figure 
below illustrate how our stakeholders 
ranked issues from low to high 
importance, though all are still relevant 
to how we operate our business, directly 
contributing to our profitability and 
overall value proposition.
 
The most important issue for 
stakeholders is ‘Customer experience’. 
Delivering and exceeding the expected 
outcomes of clients will always be a key 
focus for Kier and one of our key 
non-financial KPIs. 
The full Kier Group CR Report 2015, 
‘Enabling sustainable business’, can 
be downloaded from our website at 
http:/ /www.kier.co.uk/crr2015. This 
report, which supports and expands 
upon the matters reported in this 
section, has had external assurance 
by PwC and has been self-assessed to 
comply with application level C+ of the GRI 
G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
It is important to our stakeholders, 
especially investors seeking socially 
responsible businesses, that we can 
demonstrate a genuine commitment to 
undertake our work in an environmentally, 
socially and ethically responsible way. The 
CR Report explains in detail our approach 
to, and performance in, ensuring Kier is 
a sustainable business. It also addresses 
those risks that could compromise 
this commitment.
We have addressed the 20 KPIs identified 
under the four broad headings of people 
and communities, environment, marketplace 
and governance. This will help us to achieve 
our financial ambitions and become more 
efficient, as well as being socially and 
environmentally responsible. This will also 
help all our stakeholders to better consider 
and evaluate the full and tangible value of 
our non-financial strategic priorities, KPIs 
and risk mitigation in supporting our 
long-term financial performance.
In September 2015, we will undertake a 
shareholder engagement exercise including 
many of our leading investors, to share with 
them our draft CR Report 2015 and to seek 
their feedback on what elements of our 
reporting are of most material importance to 
them in making their investment decisions. 
Our website will contain the outputs and the 
outcomes of this exercise and will be found at  
http://www.kier.co.uk/crshareholders2015. 
The following headings are from Kier’s strategy for a sustainable business, listed in order of material importance to our stakeholders: 
1 Customer experience
2 Citizenship and community engagement
3 Sustainable supply chain
4 Safety, health and wellbeing
5 Labour standards and human rights
6 Carbon
7 Waste
8 Material standards 
9 Business ethics
10 Training, education and appenticeships
11 Governance – risk and opportunity
12 Society and community
13 Employee engagement and retention
14 Stakeholder engagement
15 Reward scheme
16 Water
17 Diversity
18 Governance – reporting and assurance
19 Environmental incidents
 Biodiversity
Stakeholder engagement 2015
Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2015
Key:
 People and communities
 Environment
 Marketplace
 Governance
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
31
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system  
of risk management and internal controls and for 
ensuring that significant risks, including those 
potentially affecting achievement of the Group’s 
strategy, are identified and appropriately managed. 
The Board has delegated the review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
processes to the Risk Management and Audit 
Committee, including the systems established  
to identify, assess, manage and monitor risk.
How the Group identifies and manages risk
Managing risk effectively is fundamental to the delivery 
of our strategic priorities. The illustration below sets out 
the key elements of the risk management process and 
the key contributors to that process:
How the Group identifies and manages risk
Strategic priorities The Board determines its strategic priorities
Principal risks On an annual basis, the Board, in conjunction with the business, identifies  
the principal risks faced by the Group
Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management and  
internal control systems
Board
Risk Management and Audit Committee
• Responsible for overseeing the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems
• Reviews the effectiveness of risk management 
processes, ensuring that appropriate action  
is being taken to manage the principal risks
Group risk summary
A quarterly consolidated analysis of the principal risks 
and the effectiveness of their mitigation is reviewed by 
the RMAC
Performance 
indicators
Performance  
against a number  
of measures is 
monitored. This 
provides an 
indication of how 
well risks are 
managed
Divisional management
• Responsible for risk management and internal control 
systems within their division
• Provides support and challenge on their businesses’ 
assessment of risk and the adequacy of mitigations
Group functions
• Act as subject matter experts on each of the principal 
risks and provide independent support and challenge 
on the assessment and management of risks
Divisional risk summary
A quarterly consolidated 
analysis of the business 
risk registers is reviewed 
by divisional management
Principal risk summary
A quarterly consolidated 
analysis of each principal 
risk as assessed within 
the business risk registers 
is reviewed by Group 
functions
Business unit management
• Responsible for risk management and internal 
control systems within their business unit
• Maintain risk registers that include all principal 
risks identified by the Board and any further risks 
deemed significant by each business
Business risk register
Remedial action
Where mitigation is not effective or the net risk level is still 
deemed to be too high further action is agreed and implemented
Gross risk level 
The pre-
mitigation risk 
size considering 
the potential 
financial impact 
and the likelihood 
of occurring
Key mitigations
Key mitigations 
are documented 
and their 
effectiveness 
assessed
Net risk level
The post-mitigation 
risk size, taking 
into account the 
effectiveness of 
key mitigations
Assurance activity
Activity by various parties (including internal audit) that provides assurance  
as to the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems
Risk Management and Audit Committee 
The Board delegates responsibility for reviewing the  
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control  
systems to the Risk Management and Audit Committee
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32 Principal risks and uncertainties
The nature of the industries and the business 
environment in which the Group operates are 
inherently risky. Although it is recognised that it  
is not possible to eliminate all such risks and 
uncertainties, the Group has well-established risk 
management and internal control systems to 
manage them.
On behalf of the Board, the RMAC identifies the risks 
that it considers most likely, without effective 
mitigation, to have an impact on the Group and its 
strategic priorities. If emerging risks are identified in 
between these annual reviews, these are incorporated 
immediately into the risk management process. There 
has been no change to the Group’s principal risks this 
year: these are set out below, together with a summary 
of the actions taken to mitigate each risk. 
Key:  Minor  Moderate   Major  Critical
Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement 
since 2014
Contract delivery
The Group has several hundred live 
contracts at any point in time and the 
risks to which the Group is exposed are 
dependent on the nature of the work, 
the location, the duration and the legal 
form of the contract. If these risks are 
not managed effectively, the Group will 
suffer contract losses, delays and 
potential reputational damage.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  P r o v i d e s e c t o r - l e a d in g 
customer experience
Contracts in progress are controlled and 
managed through the Group’s operating 
structure and procedures. This includes 
regular monthly contract reviews of 
contract-to-date financial performance 
against budget as well as comparing 
end-life forecast against tender. Project 
risk registers are also reviewed. In 
addition, our procurement function 
manages subcontractor and supplier 
relationships across contracts. 
The monthly reviews are supplemented 
by a quarterly review process which 
operates across all divisions of 
the Group.
1st (2014: 2nd)
Impact
Likelihood
1
st
Systems
The efficient operation of the Group is 
increasingly dependent on the proper 
operation, performance, security and 
development of its IT systems. The 
Group is maintaining legacy systems 
prior to implementing an ERP system. 
If implementation is unsuccessful, this  
will impact the Group’s efficiency 
and profitability.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
  Ensure we have investment in 
technology and back-office 
systems
Kier recognises that IT plays a 
fundamental role in supporting the 
business. All IT activity is managed by 
Kier’s IT department in partnership with 
the business and according to agreed 
service levels. Significant investments 
and programmes are subject to Board 
review and approval, such as the 
development of the new ERP system 
that will standardise the back-office 
functions. Kier has contingencies in 
place to deal with cyber security threats.
2nd (2014: 3rd)
Impact
Likelihood
2
nd
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
33
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement 
since 2014
Funding
The Property and Residential divisions 
rely on finance provided by the Group 
and external sources. The Construction 
and Services divisions rely on Group 
bonding facilities. Without these, 
revenue and profit would reduce. 
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
Cash flow is forecast regularly to provide 
up-to-date and accurate information on 
the Group’s current cash position and its 
future requirements.
Borrowing facilities have been recently 
renegotiated and extended. The Group 
has strong, long-term relationships with 
the providers of its bonding lines and 
has an in-house team which monitors 
headroom and advises on bond terms 
and conditions.
The Group’s Investment Committee 
is responsible for approving capital 
investment and optimising the 
allocation of capital.
3rd (2014: 4th)
Impact
Likelihood
3
rd
People
The Group depends on members of its 
senior management team and on a 
flexible, highly skilled, diverse and 
well-motivated workforce. As core 
markets emerge from recession, 
employee turnover has increased. 
If the Group does not succeed in 
attracting, developing and retaining 
skilled people, as well as understanding 
and embracing the diversity of those 
people, it will not be able to grow the 
business as anticipated.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
    Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Attract and retain  
highly motivated, 
high-performing teams
The Group monitors staff turnover 
closely. Pay and conditions are reviewed 
regularly against the prevailing market to 
ensure that we remain competitive.
Succession planning and staff 
development are managed at all  
levels in the Group. The Group has 
a performance review process which 
is designed to assist in the career 
development of its staff and also to 
identify potential successors to roles 
within the Group (including at senior 
management level).
4th (2014: 1st)
Impact
Likelihood
4
th
Key:  Minor  Moderate   Major  Critical
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
34 Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement 
since 2014
The market
The Group’s strategy depends on the 
planned level of expenditure within 
both the public and private sectors. 
Smaller markets will likely result in 
lower revenue for the Group.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
The Group has a structure to manage 
and mitigate risk with the following key 
components:
• A wide geographic regional network 
of offices across the UK well 
integrated into local communities, 
the client base and the supply chain;
• A high number of framework 
agreements and partnerships with 
Government, local authorities and 
the private sector;
• Kier’s integrated offering, with 
Property typically peaking earlier in 
the economic cycle and Services 
later, provides a natural mitigation 
against recession; and
• A developing capability to predict 
market changes, in particular future 
Government priorities.
The Group also carries out monthly and 
quarterly reviews of its workload and 
forecasts its overhead levels as a 
percentage of future work in order to 
maintain a steady ratio of overhead 
costs to revenue. Fuel and other 
materials that are in high demand, 
such as steel, are hedged or forward-
purchased when deemed necessary.
5th (2014: 8th)
Impact
Likelihood
5
th
Tender pricing
The work for which Kier tenders is 
often complex and long-term with 
significant associated risks. Tender 
assumptions may be inaccurate or the 
risks associated with the tender may 
not be fully understood. If risks are 
under-priced, contract losses and 
potential reputational damage will 
result. If risks are over-priced, order 
books will suffer.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Provide sector-leading 
customer experience
The Group’s appetite for very long-term, 
large, competitively tendered 
construction contracts is limited. This 
is influenced by the desire to maintain 
quality of workload and to manage risk. 
Tenders for contracts are subject to a 
governance structure which includes 
Group-wide standing orders and a 
gateway process, with approval by the 
chief executive/finance director, other 
executive directors or divisional 
directors, depending upon the value and 
nature of the contract. Tenders with 
defined specific risks are reviewed by 
the Group’s Risk Review Committee.
6th (2014: 7th)
Impact
Likelihood
6
th
Key:  Minor  Moderate   Major  Critical
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
35
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement 
since 2014
Compliance
The Group is subject to a number of 
complex, demanding and evolving legal 
and regulatory requirements. A breach  
of laws or regulations could lead to legal 
proceedings, investigations or disputes 
resulting in a disruption of business, 
ranging from additional costs incurred  
on a project or in the overall 
management of the breach, to civil  
and/or criminal penalties as well as 
reputational damage.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
    P r o v i d e s e c t o r - l e a d in g 
customer experience
The Group monitors and responds to 
legal and regulatory developments in the 
areas in which it operates. It conducts 
risk assessments to assess material 
changes and the policies and 
procedures it needs to manage them.
The Group’s policies require that all of 
its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers 
and subcontractors comply with 
applicable laws and regulations. The 
Group updates its policies to ensure 
that it complies with changes in 
legislation and regulation. Certain 
mandatory training is provided on 
relevant areas of law and regulation.
The Group operates and encourages the 
use of a whistle-blowing process that 
enables employees to raise concerns.
Contracts entered into by the Group are 
subjected to a review process to ensure 
that contractual risks are identified and, 
wherever possible, mitigated appropriately.
7 th (2014: 9th)
Impact
Likelihood
7
th
Change
Shortly before year end, the Group 
acquired Mouchel and is currently 
undertaking its integration through a 
tightly governed change programme. 
In addition, the ERP programme has 
completed its planning and development 
phase and is expected shortly to move 
into implementation and roll-out. Unless 
carefully managed, these programmes 
risk diverting management attention 
away from core operations, causing a 
loss of focus on key market opportunities 
and control of the existing business.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
      A c h i e v e t o p q u a r t il e 
performance and efficiency
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Ensure we have investment 
in technology and back-
office systems
All change programmes are tightly 
controlled by both a programme steering 
group and by regular review by the RMAC. 
The integration programme, in particular, 
provides a weekly update report that 
provides details on progress, risks, issues 
and executive decisions that are required.
8th (2014: 10th)
Impact
Likelihood
8
th
Key:  Minor  Moderate   Major  Critical
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
36 Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement 
since 2014
Safety
The Group’s activities are inherently 
complex and potentially hazardous and 
require the continuous monitoring and 
management of health, safety and 
environmental risks.
Failure to manage these risks 
could result in injury to employees, 
subcontractors or members of the 
public or damage to the environment. 
This could also expose the Group to 
significant potential liability and 
reputational damage.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
    Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
Detailed policies and procedures 
exist to minimise such risks and are 
subject to review and monitoring by the 
operating businesses and Group. All 
operating businesses have a director 
who is responsible for co-ordinating 
health & safety activities.
Compliance with the SHE management 
system is monitored through a number 
of tools including audit, leadership tours 
and inspections.
The Group’s behavioural change 
programme is designed to change 
behaviours at the supervisor and 
workforce level while the Visible 
Leadership Programme is encouraging 
appropriate engagement by the business 
leadership with the workforce.
The SHE audit programme continues 
to be used as a key method in identifying 
common areas of non-compliance 
across the business, helping us drive 
improvements proactively rather 
than reactively.
9th (2014: 5th)
Impact
Likelihood
9
th
Reputation
The Group’s ability to tender for new 
business and its relationship with 
customers, supply chain partners, its 
employees and other stakeholders 
depends in large part on the good 
reputation that it has established and 
how it is perceived by others. The 
Group’s growth targets are unlikely to 
be achieved if this risk is not managed.
Relevant strategic priorities: 
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe and 
sustainable business
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
    Accelerate growth to be  
a top three player in our 
chosen markets
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
    P r o v i d e s e c t o r - l e a d in g 
customer experience
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Attract and retain  
highly motivated, 
high-performing teams
With the increasing profile of the Group in 
both business to business and business 
to customer markets, the ability to monitor 
and measure the Group’s reputation 
through client and customer feedback is 
key. Customer satisfaction monitoring has 
been implemented across the Group and, 
with the development of a digital strategy 
including social media, we are better 
informed of issues that may arise. 
10th (2014: 6th)
Impact
Likelihood
10
th
Key:  Minor  Moderate   Major  Critical
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
37
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Property
Revenue
1,3
 was £126m (2014: £102m), up 24%, 
generating an underlying operating profit
2,3
 of 
£22.7m (2014: £16.0m). This significant result was 
achieved with average capital invested of £84m in 
the Developments business, through a focus on 
capital efficiency with co-investors and using the 
cash flow from Kier’s other operations. A profit of 
£1.3m was generated from the sale of a PFI 
investment in the year. The division achieved a 
27% ROCE, exceeding its 15% ROCE target following 
the significant profit contribution from the Solum 
Regeneration joint venture renegotiation with 
Network Rail. However, it is anticipated that ROCE 
will return to normalised levels in the current 
financial year. The division’s performance continues 
to be healthy with a development pipeline of 
opportunities in excess of £1bn.
With a greater focus on Kier’s integrated offering, 
and working with joint venture partners, the specialist 
skills of the Property division are increasingly in 
demand by public sector clients who are seeking 
to maximise the return from their property assets. 
For example, a Strategic Property Partnership with 
Staffordshire County Council and the Police and 
Crime Commissioner (‘PCC‘) for Staffordshire was 
signed in June 2015. The partnership has created 
a joint venture company between Kier, the County 
Council and the PCC called Penda, for a 10-year 
period with the potential for a five-year extension. 
The partnership will review property and land 
schemes including development, disposal, acquisition, 
construction, asset management and facilities 
management for a value up to £400m and involve 
a range of capabilities from across the Group.
Developments
The Development business concentrates 
predominantly on non–speculative opportunities, 
with a focus on pre-let and forward sold 
developments and joint venture arrangements 
thereby reducing the associated risk and demands 
on Group cash. During the period, 1.2m sq ft of 
pre-lets and lettings were secured across a range of 
sectors, including industrial, retail and leisure, and 
for a range of prestigious clients including Total E&P, 
Centrica and CGG. Within the Trade City joint venture 
with Investec, the first two schemes at Sydenham 
and Frimley were sold for a combined cash 
consideration of £20m. In June 2015, construction 
commenced on two new schemes in Oxford 
and Bracknell.
In December 2014, the division disposed of its 50% 
share in the Trade City schemes at Hayes (60,000 
sq ft) and Uxbridge (120,000 sq ft) for £14m. In 
June 2015, the business expanded its industrial 
offering with the launch of the Logistics City brand 
focusing on industrial space units up to 150,000 
sq ft, complementing the Trade City brand which 
focuses on owner-occupier needs with units 
averaging c.10,000 sq ft. New Logistics City 
schemes are underway in Normanton, Yorkshire, 
where completion is expected in November 2015, 
with additional sites secured at Thurrock, Frimley 
and Andover.
The division provides property development 
and structured finance.
£126m +24%
Revenue
1,3
(2014: £102m) 
£22.7 m +42%
Underlying operating 
profit
2,3
(2014: £16.0m) 
£(82.9)m
Average capital
4
(2014: £(61)m)
81
Employees
(2014: 63) 
1
 Group and share of joint ventures. 
2
 Stated before non-underlying items see notes 2 and 4 to 
the consolidated financial statements. Reported Property 
operating profit was £22.6m (2014
3
: £13.6m).
3
 Restated to reflect the creation of the Residential division, 
comprising elements previously included within the Property 
and Construction divisions.
4
 Equates to average net debt. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
38 Catterick
The £30m retail and leisure development at 
Catterick was completed by Kier Property in 
September 2015 with a sale anticipated as 
the park becomes established. The scheme 
was delivered in a joint venture between 
Kier and Lingfield Securities and built by 
Kier Construction. 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Property continued
In October 2014, the 20 acre Reading Gateway site 
was acquired in partnership with Investec. A planning 
application for 150 new homes and a hotel and light 
industrial and trade counter space is expected to be 
submitted in October 2015.
In December 2014, the £240m Watford Health 
Campus project reached a significant milestone, 
with the planning award of the hybrid masterplan and 
the commencement of highway infrastructure works. 
The scheme will deliver 375,000 sq ft of mixed-use 
development to the area as well as 680 new homes.
Reinforcing Kier’s relationship with Network Rail, 
the Solum Regeneration joint venture was extended 
for an additional 10 years to 2028 focusing on 
schemes up to £150m with its joint venture partner. 
Solum has in excess of £500m of mixed-use and 
regeneration schemes in its portfolio and a 
significant number of regeneration schemes are 
underway including in Guildford, Haywards Heath, 
Redhill, Twickenham and Walthamstow.
Structured finance
The current portfolio of structured property finance 
projects includes eight schemes, two at preferred 
bidder stage and the remainder in construction or 
operation. The committed equity investment stands 
at £21m (2014: £19m) of which £13m (2014: £11m) 
has been invested to date. The directors’ valuation at 
a discount rate of 7.5% for PFI investments and 10% 
for direct let student accommodation investments is 
£36m (2014: £34m).
The student accommodation joint venture with Amber 
Infrastructure, set up last year, recently completed 
264 rooms in Glasgow ready for the 2015/16 
academic year and more student accommodation 
opportunities are in the pipeline. In the education 
sector, good progress is being made on the design, 
build, finance and maintain (‘DBFM’) of the £25m 
Ayr Academy scheme in South Ayrshire and the 
Kilmarnock Academy DBFM scheme where Kier 
is the preferred bidder, and both of which are being 
delivered via South West Hub.
Property outlook
The property market remains strong with increased 
demand for high-quality office space, both in the 
regions and London, and we are seeing rising 
demand for industrial space. Our co-investor 
partners continue to provide support, which is 
helping to improve our own return on capital, and the 
focus will remain on predominately non-speculative 
and pre-let opportunities and the continued recycling 
of mature assets. The division will continue to 
generate opportunities for our Construction and 
Services divisions and assist clients to create value 
from under-utilised assets.
Clifton House, Glasgow
Through its joint venture with Amber Infrastructure, Kier has 
converted two office buildings in the west end of Glasgow into 
student accommodation comprising a total of 142 en-suite 
cluster bedrooms and 122 self-contained studio units. 
Following Kier’s selection by Total E&P to build its 
new 240,000 sq ft headquarters in Aberdeen, further 
success in the office sector has been achieved having 
been selected to develop a new 50,000 sq ft office 
for CGG, the geoscience company, in Crawley, with 
construction due to commence in spring 2016. 
Further office developments are underway in 
Hammersmith (60,000 sq ft), in joint venture with 
Investec, 58 Victoria Embankment in London (46,500 
sq ft), in which Kier holds a 16% equity stake and is 
also the development manager and funding partner, 
and at Sovereign Street in Leeds (940,000 sq ft), 
of which 60% is pre-let.
The retail, mixed-use and regeneration sectors remain 
healthy. The £30m retail and leisure development at 
Catterick is on programme having achieved practical 
completion in August 2015 and a sale expected by 
December 2015. The 68,000 sq ft leisure scheme in 
Walsall, comprising a cinema and food and beverage 
outlet which have been fully pre-let, has been forward 
funded and Kier’s investment sold with construction 
due to complete in November 2015. Two new retail 
schemes have been secured in Wakefield (47,000 
sq ft) and Durham (63,000 sq ft) with significant 
occupier interest on both schemes and construction 
is set to commence in the coming year.
In the hotel sector, a 67-bedroom Travelodge and 
retail unit at Doncaster Lakes were sold for a cash 
consideration of £4m. Construction continued on 
the forward-sold 222-bed hotel for Motel One in 
Highbridge, Newcastle with completion on target for 
late 2015. In April 2015, a new joint venture with 
Premier Inn Limited, part of the Whitbread Group, 
was formed to identify hotel development 
opportunities across the UK.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
40 Divisional review 
Residential
In its first full year operating as a new division, the 
Residential business performed well. The Group’s 
activities are focused on both private house sales 
and working with local authorities, housing 
associations and other clients on building mixed 
tenure affordable housing. Revenues increased 
to £257m (2014
2
: £233m) with the total number of 
unit completions increasing by 35% to 2,130 units, 
generating an increase in underlying operating 
margin
1,2
 to 4.4%.
The strong second-half performance was assisted 
by the affordable funding programme, as predicted. 
Underlying operating profit
1
 of £11.2m (2014
2
: 
£7.7m), up 45%, was achieved with a 13% increase 
in average capital invested, reflecting the ongoing 
recovery in the sector and the rebalancing of the land 
bank away from legacy Kier land and into mixed 
tenure developments.
Mixed tenure
The mixed tenure business achieved more than 
1,400 completions in the year, a significant increase 
on 2014, reflecting the unfulfilled housing demand. 
In April 2015, the division extended its operations 
in the north of England through the acquisition of 
a number of assets and contracts from a regional 
affordable housing business, Southdale. This 
business provides the division with a national 
UK mixed tenure capability.
There was a significant increase in available plots in 
the Midlands and major development sites set up in 
Chesterfield, where a large Homes and Communities 
Agency master planned mixed tenure site is 
underway, and Kettering, a site developed in 
conjunction with Buccleuch Trust.
The mixed tenure return on capital is now more than 
10% and improving with capital employed increasing 
to over £40m. The recent budget changes and the 
extension of Right-to-Buy are expected, in the short 
term, to lead housing associations and councils to 
re-assess their development plans. However, these 
changes are expected to result in greater public and 
private collaboration, as housing associations and 
councils seek scale which should be of potential 
benefit to the Group over the medium term as larger 
schemes then come to market. The mixed tenure 
business is well positioned and is more than 70% 
secured for 2016.
Kier Residential, branded Kier Living, includes 
private house building and affordable mixed 
tenure housing partnerships.
£257 m +10%
Revenue
2
(2014: £233m) 
£11.2m +45%
Underlying operating 
profit
1,2
(2014: £7.7m) 
£(262.7)m
Average capital
3
(2014: £(233)m)
613
Employees
(2014: 348) 
1
 Stated before non-underlying items; see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Reported Residential operating 
profit was £11.2m (2014
2
: £7.6m).
2
 Restated to reflect the creation of the Residential division, comprising elements previously included within the Property and 
Construction divisions.
3
 Equates to average net debt. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Residential continued
Worthing Waterfront
The Worthing Waterfront site consists of 64 
one and two-bedroom apartments just metres 
from the Worthing coastline.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42 Private
This year saw a significant uplift in private sale 
completions on Kier owned land, with 706 
completions (2014: 601), up 17% on last year. 
The land bank mix is improving with over 60% of 
developments on land bought before 2008 and the 
remainder on newer land which is delivering a 20% 
return on capital. During the year, the land bank 
reduced to 3,485 plots (2014: 3,953). Sales were 
completed at a rate of 0.7 units per trading site per 
week supported by the Help to Buy scheme, which 
accounted for approximately 40% of sales. Average 
selling prices increased to £190k and the business 
is currently more than 40% secured for 2016.
In March 2015, Kier was awarded a 5* rating in 
the annual Home Builders Federation customer 
satisfaction survey, achieving the top score amongst 
house builders in the UK.
Residential outlook
The UK demand for all forms of housing continues, 
and the changes to the planning process recently 
announced aim to accelerate and simplify the 
decision-making process. The division is well 
secured for 2016 and we will continue on recycling 
the land bank to service growth in the mixed tenure 
business. Mixed tenure is a key part of our housing 
activities, which, when combined with our experience 
of housing maintenance, positions Kier well both to 
assist registered providers to develop their portfolios 
for both private and affordable housing purposes and 
to deliver the maintenance requirements thereafter.
Laburnum Lodge, Sandy
The 75-home development at Laburnum Lodge provides 
a selection of family homes in Sandy, Bedfordshire. 
Hawkhead Village, Paisley
Kier’s art deco inspired housing development in Paisley, Scotland comprises a selection of three, four and five-bedroom family homes.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
43
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Construction
The Construction division has experienced significant 
year-on-year organic growth whilst maintaining its 
selective approach to new work. Revenue
1,3
 was 
up 15% to £1,721m (2014
4
: £1,498m), reflecting 
significant market and contract growth over the 
period, particularly within the core regional building 
business. This resulted in an underlying operating 
profit
2,3
 increase of 25% to £37.7m (2014
4
: £30.2m). 
Underlying operating margins
2,3
 were resilient at 
2.2% (2014
4
: 2.0%) and the working capital position 
has improved.
The order book of secured and probable work, at 
£3.3bn, is equivalent to 95% of forecast revenue 
for the 2016 financial year, on increasing volumes.
UK regional building
The regional building business has performed well, 
with an increasing number of opportunities in the 
private sector, as well as an expanded profile in 
Scotland and Wales.
During the year, Kier has secured places on all of 
its major construction framework bids generating 
£15bn of opportunity. Kier’s experience resulted in 
a number of new contracts being awarded on the 
health and education frameworks. On 28 August 
2015, we announced that Kier has been appointed 
the sole contractor to deliver up to £1.5bn of 
construction work, by leading built environment 
specialist, Scape Group. The Scape National Minor 
Works framework covers the UK and runs for a 
duration of four years, delivering schemes valued 
between £50,000 and £4m, ranging from 
refurbishment and redevelopment to new 
construction projects. Kier was previously on the 
framework and during the last year delivered 215 
projects with a value of £130m, of which 20% was 
completed by the Services division.
In addition, the Group retained its place on the North 
West Construction Hub medium-value framework 
for projects worth between £2m and £9m and all 
three lots under the £4bn Southern Construction 
Framework, one of the largest construction 
frameworks in the UK.
The Group was awarded over £260m worth of 
contracts under the national framework with the 
Education Funding Agency and is currently the 
preferred bidder on a total of 10 schemes, with 
a combined value of £72m.
As announced in June 2015, the division was 
awarded more than £200m of contracts under the 
ProCure21
+
 health framework. These included being 
named preferred bidder for a £160m contract to 
design and build a new critical treatment hospital 
for Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. The 
new 45,000 sq m campus within the borough of 
Basingstoke and Deane will include a new cancer 
treatment centre and critical pathology laboratories, 
with work planned to start on site in April 2016. In 
addition, a £25m contract was awarded to upgrade 
three hospitals in Boston, Grantham and Lincoln for 
The Construction division comprises the UK 
building, civil engineering and international 
businesses which undertake a wide range of 
building and infrastructure projects.
£1,721m +15%
Revenue
1,3,4
(2014: £1,498m) 
£37.7m +25%
Underlying operating 
profit
2,3,4
(2014: £30.2m) 
2.2%
Underlying operating 
margin
2,3,4
(2014: 2.0%) 
£3.3bn +32%
Order book
(2014: £2.5bn)
5,856
Employees
(2014: 3,720)
1
 Group and share of joint ventures.
2
 Stated before non-underlying items; see notes 2 and 4 to 
the consolidated financial statements. Reported 
Construction operating profit from continuing operations 
was £36.8m (2014
4
: £22.0m).
3
 Continuing operations. Prior year restated to reflect 
the reclassification of the UK mining activities to 
discontinued operations. 
4
 Restated to reflect the creation of the Residential division, 
comprising elements previously included within the Property 
and Construction divisions. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44 Crossrail
As part of joint venture BFK, Kier was awarded 
a £200m contract for the main construction 
works of the Crossrail Farringdon station in 
2011. The project is set for completion in 
2018 and will create one of Britain’s busiest 
train stations.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
45
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Camden Council’s community 
building, King’s Cross, London
Kier is one of the three delivery partners, 
appointed by Argent, who are redeveloping a 
67 acre site in King’s Cross, London. As part 
of the transformation, a new community 
services centre was built for Camden Council. 
The £68m BREEAM Outstanding project 
includes council offices and a number of 
public facilities, including a leisure centre 
with swimming pools, library, customer 
contact centre and café. Kier is also providing 
FM services at this site.
Divisional review 
Construction continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46 United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust and a £22m 
contract was awarded to reconfigure and refurbish 
Dewsbury and District Hospital for the Mid Yorkshire 
Hospitals. Kier has been appointed by two NHS 
Trusts as Principal Supply Chain Partner through 
the ProCure21
+
 frameworks to deliver a £40m 
programme of reconfiguration works at Hereford 
County Hospital, and by Nottinghamshire Healthcare 
NHS Foundation Trust to deliver the Trust’s future 
estates strategy.
The division has developed its profile in the biotech 
sector, with new projects including a £70m 14,000m
2
 
laboratory for the University of Cambridge on the 
Cambridge Biomedical Campus and the recent 
completion of the £23m Hinxton facility for the 
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.
In London, the Group has expanded its presence at 
the Argent development at King’s Cross in London by 
being appointed preferred bidder on new offices and 
retail space as part of the overall scheme. In April 
2015, Kier was selected as preferred bidder to deliver 
the £170m first phase of The Ram Quarter, a major 
flagship regeneration scheme in Wandsworth, London. 
The Ram Quarter will be delivered in three phases, 
with a total value of around £600m. Kier will deliver 
411,000 sq ft of new build residential and retail 
space for phase one. Enabling works have commenced 
with completion scheduled for early 2017. This 
award recognises Kier’s extensive experience in 
major mixed-use and regeneration projects in the 
London market.
The division continues to undertake work alongside 
the Property division, for example, on the Total E&P 
project to build its new 240,000 sq ft headquarters 
in Aberdeen and the Ayr Academy as part of the 
South West Hub.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure business maintained a solid 
performance, with revenues approaching £350m 
coming from a range of sectors.
In transport, good progress continues to be made 
on the £450m Mersey Gateway scheme, having 
achieved the first milestone ahead of programme. 
Kier’s presence in capital programmes in the UK 
highways sector continues to grow. Following Kier’s 
success on the Highways Agency £1.15bn five-year 
collaborative delivery framework announced 
in November 2014, Kier secured one of Highways 
England’s largest Smart Motorway Programme 
(‘SMP’) contracts worth up to £475m, in joint 
venture, in July 2015. The initial £129.5m contract 
covers works on the M6, with future works on the 
M6, M20 and M23. In the year, Kier was also 
awarded, and commenced, the £33m upgrade 
to the A30, working for Cornwall Council.
Marriott Hotel, Haiti
Following the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, a new £23m 
75-bedroom Marriott Hotel in Port-au-Prince was completed 
by Kier in December 2014.
Sanger Sequencing Building, Hinxton
Kier’s presence in the biotech sector has increased and saw 
the completion in October 2015 of the Sanger Sequencing 
Building for the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
47
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Construction continued
International
The international business has secured over £375m 
of new work in the year. This included major project 
awards in the Middle East, including a £100m+ 
prestigious residential development in Dubai, two 
further contract awards at Dubai Parks & Resorts 
and a £32m primary infrastructure project for SABIC 
in Saudi Arabia. Despite lower oil prices, prospects 
in our key markets of Dubai and Saudi Arabia remain 
encouraging and our ability to arrange export credit 
facilities for our clients, supported by UK Export 
Finance, remains a key differentiator. The business 
is extending its geographical reach in the region and 
has a strong order book.
In Hong Kong, work is progressing on our two major 
rail contracts for MTRC; however, the market remains 
challenging with project delays being experienced 
across the entire rail programme and we continue 
to work with MTRC to resolve these matters.
In the Caribbean, work has been secured in the 
education and hospitality sectors in Jamaica, 
although ongoing economic restrictions are reducing 
expenditure in the public sector. The £23m Marriott 
hotel in Haiti was completed during the year.
Construction outlook
The Construction division continues to benefit 
from the UK economic recovery and the higher 
quality and lower risk of new work, having secured 
more than £2.5bn in the last year. Its operations 
are strengthened by an established position on 
frameworks, a selective approach to new work 
and an increasing profile in the UK infrastructure 
market where there is increased Government 
investment. The order book of £3.3bn is 95% 
secure for 2016 and margins and cash generation 
are expected to improve. We will continue to apply 
our comprehensive pre-construction review and 
risk management process and endeavour to create 
a blend of projects utilising our building and 
infrastructure capabilities in the UK and internationally.
United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust
A £25m contract to upgrade three hospitals in Boston, 
Grantham and Lincoln for United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS 
Trust has been completed as part of the ProCure21
+
 framework.
In the rail sector, we have formed a new joint venture 
with Carillion and Eiffage for HS2 and at Crossrail, 
the western running tunnels project is on programme 
to complete this year, with all Kier’s other tunnelling 
works now complete across the project. Good 
progress continues to be made on Kier’s Crossrail 
work at Farringdon station which is set to complete 
in 2018.
In the energy sector, works have been completed 
at the Wakefield energy-from-waste plant and are 
nearing completion at the Plymouth energy-from-
waste project. The nuclear sector remains active 
with new projects at Sellafield, Devonport and 
Aldermaston, and existing projects at Urenco. 
At Hinkley, preparation is underway for the next 
phase of works, which will commence when the 
final investment decision is announced.
In the water market, the Deephams waste water 
treatment works project for Thames Water is 
progressing well.
As announced on 30 June 2015, the UK mining 
operations in Greenburn, Ayrshire have been 
prepared for sale and treated as discontinued as at 
30 June 2015. Discussions with a potential buyer 
are progressing well. Following the conclusion of the 
Group’s forward sales contract at the Greenburn 
mine and the fall in the coal price, the Group has 
undertaken an impairment review of its UK mining 
operations. This has resulted in a non-underlying 
impairment charge to realisable value in the current 
financial year of £22.9m, with a cash effect of £8m.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48 Divisional review 
Services
The Services division comprises capabilities 
in highways maintenance (both local authority 
and strategic highways), utilities, housing 
maintenance, facilities management and 
environmental services. The recently acquired 
activities of Mouchel’s consulting and local 
authority business processing operations, 
recently renamed Kier Business Services, 
are also included.
£1,247 m +13%
Revenue
1
(2014: £1,104m) 
£58.0m +9%
Underlying operating 
profit
2
(2014: £53.3m) 
4.7%
Underlying operating 
profit margin
2
(2014: 4.8%)
£6.0bn +62%
Order book
(2014: £3.7bn)
17,021
Employees
(2014: 10,813) 
Services revenue
1
 was up 13% to £1.2bn (2014: 
£1.1bn) reflecting the awards of a £200m four-year 
extension of the highways services contract with 
Northamptonshire County Council and more than 
£700m of awards as part of the AMP6 water cycle. 
Following the acquisition of Mouchel in early June, 
a three-week contribution from Mouchel’s 
businesses has been included.
Underlying operating profit
2
 was £58.0m (2014: 
£53.3m), up 9%. Underlying operating margins
2
 
remained in line with management’s expectations 
at 4.7%, reflecting the high volume of bidding costs 
incurred on the successful AMP tenders in the 
first half of the financial year and the impact of a 
significant reduction in market prices for recyclate 
within the environmental business, which impacted 
underlying operating profit by £4m.
As announced at the completion of the Mouchel 
acquisition, it is anticipated that the transaction 
will deliver pre-tax cost savings of approximately 
£4m in the financial year ending 30 June 2016 and 
£10m in the financial year ending 30 June 2017 
and thereafter.
The order book at 30 June 2015 of £6.0bn (30 June 
2014: £3.7bn) provides good visibility of future work, 
having secured over £0.8bn of new contracts during 
the year. More than 90% of targeted revenue for 
2016 was secured at 30 June 2015. The order 
book does not include contract extensions, which, 
if included, would add a further £2.2bn to the 
£6.0bn total.
Highways maintenance
The highways business continued to perform 
well, benefiting from the Government’s continued 
focus on infrastructure. Following the acquisition of 
Mouchel, Kier is now the sector leader in a growing 
UK highways maintenance and management market 
covering both the local authority and strategic 
highways sectors of the UK highways market, where 
Government spend has increased and will continue 
to do so.
Overseas, the DownerMouchel joint venture 
continues to perform well and additional contracts 
in the Australian highways market and new 
opportunities in New Zealand are being evaluated.
In the UK, total annual spend on highways is £13bn, 
of which approximately £7bn relates to maintenance, 
providing an opportunity for the Group to extend its 
presence in this market. This spend is further 
underpinned by Highways England’s £17bn five-year 
investment in the strategic road network. The local 
authority highways market is using funds made 
available by the new £575m Challenge Fund, set up 
by central Government, to help repair and maintain 
local infrastructure from 2016 and improve overall 
asset management.
1
 Group and share of joint ventures, including three weeks 
of Mouchel trading in 2015.
2
 Includes three weeks of Mouchel trading in 2015, stated 
before non-underlying items; see notes 2 and 4 to the 
consolidated financial statements. Reported Services 
operating profit was £39.3m (2014: £32.6m). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
49
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Divisional review 
Services continued
In Kier’s local authority highways business, a £200m 
four-year extension of the Northamptonshire County 
Council highways services contract, in joint venture, 
was confirmed. In addition, the Lincolnshire and East 
Sussex contracts were extended with an estimated 
value of £37m and £15m respectively. Discussions 
are ongoing with Surrey County Council to develop 
a more strategic approach to their maintenance 
requirements, as well as a one-year extension with 
a value of approximately £50m.
Utilities
The utilities business had a good year, marking 
the transition between the AMP5 and AMP6 water 
cycles. On the back of £700m of new contract 
awards for Anglian Water, Bournemouth, Bristol, 
Canal River Trust and Thames Water during the 
AMP6 bidding cycle and extensions with Scotia Gas 
Network (‘SGN’) and South West Water, Kier is now 
one of the top three participants in the UK regulated 
water sector.
During the period, the business undertook four 
mobilisations in the water sector: one for Thames 
Water and three for Anglian Water, which have been 
completed successfully. As part of these, work has 
focused on cultural transformation of the alliances, 
more efficient processes and an improved 
customer experience.
In the energy sector, there have been significant 
opportunities particularly in the gas sector and there 
are increased opportunities in the environmental 
protection market. With the growth in the utilities 
sector, availability of skills remains under pressure 
and Kier has created its own utilities skills academy 
to respond to this demand.
The gas and telecoms sectors of the utilities market 
remain particularly attractive with opportunities 
under discussion with OpenReach and SGN.
Mouchel Consulting
Mouchel Consulting operates within the highways 
design, management and technology sector with 
operations in both the UK and the Middle East. Since 
30 June 2015, Mouchel Consulting has secured one 
of the five major regional traffic modelling contracts 
with Highways England and, supporting the 
Government’s northern powerhouse devolution 
agenda, has been awarded a £1.4m project to 
assess the feasibility of a new TransPennine link 
between Sheffield and Manchester. Building on its 
track record in the Middle East highways sector, a 
four-year £17m supervision contract has been 
secured for a highways maintenance contract in 
Abu Dhabi.
Housing maintenance
The business experienced a good first half of the 
year; however, trading was more subdued in the 
second half as is typical around an election. 
Following the award of the four-year £140m repairs 
and maintenance contract with Genesis Housing 
Association in September 2014, this was 
successfully mobilised. Other contract awards in the 
year included the £26m four-year roofing contract for 
Sheffield City Council and the five-year £6m planned 
maintenance contract for Richmondshire District 
Council in North Yorkshire. In addition, the business 
is supporting the £25m ProCure21
+
 regional minor 
works contract being undertaken through Kier 
Construction. New opportunities are under 
discussion with Metropolitan Housing and following 
a change in strategic approach from the client, the 
£9m Circle repairs contract was exited enabling the 
Group to focus on the planned works and gas 
compliance contracts for that client.
This business continues to develop new 
opportunities in the East and West Midlands, the 
North West and East Anglia. Opportunities are also 
arising from targeting frameworks and places have 
been secured on 24 frameworks covering works for 
150 clients, including the Greater London Authority 
RE:NEW framework. With the recent Government 
affordable housing and rent announcements, it is 
anticipated that the market for registered providers 
will change, with likely consolidation providing access 
to larger stock portfolios and the need for increased 
outsourced support.
Facilities management
To better define its offer in a competitive market, 
the facilities management (‘FM’) business focuses 
on providing a broad FM and asset management 
proposition to clients. This breadth of delivery is in 
line with market trends and has resulted in contracts 
being signed with Staffordshire County Council and 
the Police and Crime Commissioner for Staffordshire.
Environmental
Mouchel Consulting provides a range of services across a 
project lifecycle including policy development, planning and 
design and performance monitoring principally in the transport, 
environmental, property and water sectors.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50 Thames Water
Thames Water is a client using a range of 
Kier services. During this year, Kier was 
awarded the £1bn Thames Water infrastructure 
alliance contract, in joint venture with 
Clancy Docwra.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
51
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Highways
The Mouchel acquisition extends Kier’s 
market share of the highways and, more 
broadly, the transport market. The Strategic 
Highways business is one of Highways 
England’s key suppliers whilst the Consulting 
business provides capabilities in the fields of 
development and transport planning, design 
and management, intelligent transport 
services including tolling and enforcement, 
and maintenance and operations.
Divisional review 
Services continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52 There have been a number of new awards in the year, 
including a five-year £22.5m contract with the Royal 
Opera House and the provision of a four-year £4.8m 
contract for engineering services to University 
College London, built by Kier Construction. In the 
year, the business also joined two national public 
sector frameworks: the hard FM framework for Crown 
Commercial Services and the soft FM services 
framework for national Procurement Services Wales.
The market for FM services both in the public and 
private sectors looks encouraging and, with clients 
appearing to prefer integrated self-delivered solutions, 
Kier is well placed to make further progress.
Kier Business Services (‘KBS’)
The newly acquired operations of Mouchel provide a 
range of business process outsourcing and property 
management services to the local authority market, 
as well as to the police, health and education 
sectors. Kier has a prominent position with local 
authorities across its operations and further 
opportunities exist to extend its services to clients 
via Kier Business Services (‘KBS’). KBS remains 
focused on the provision of bundled services to 
assist local authorities to address their budgetary 
challenges. Key clients of KBS are exploring the 
breadth of services now available through Kier and 
discussions on further outsourcing with current 
customers are ongoing.
Other
During August, the Bristol City Council contract in 
our Environmental business mutually terminated 
within the overall fair value provisions arising at the 
time of the May Gurney acquisition. Elsewhere, the 
performance of the environmental business remains 
challenging but stable.
The sale of Fleet & Passenger Services was 
completed on 1 July 2015 for £17.9m. Proceeds 
from the sale were used to improve Kier’s cash 
position and, where appropriate, to fund growth 
opportunities in line with Kier’s strategy.
Services outlook
Following the acquisition of Mouchel, the Group’s 
highways capability has been extended and 
accelerated. Our enhanced capabilities within 
the highways market, together with our Group 
infrastructure capabilities, positions us well for 
future investment in the transport sector. The 
increased focus of our utilities business on regulated 
sectors such as telecoms and power provides new 
opportunities for further growth in the business. 
In the local authority market, budgetary challenges 
continue to create a need for a new approach to 
managing assets and how services are delivered 
leading to the outsourcing of more complex, asset 
focused contracts. Our strong relationships with local 
authorities provide a robust foundation on which to 
grow and utilise the breadth of skills we have across 
the Group. The division has a £6.0bn order book 
with potential extensions adding a further £3.3bn 
and is 90% secured for 2016.
Kier Business Services
Kier Business Services, formerly a Mouchel company, 
provides a range of business process outsourcing and 
property management services to the local authority market 
as well as to the police, health and education sectors.
Royal Opera House
Kier provides hard and soft FM services for the Royal Opera 
House at its iconic site in Covent Garden, in addition to two 
other locations across the UK. 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
53
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Financial Review
Accounting policies and segmental reporting
The Group’s annual consolidated financial 
statements are prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’). 
There have been no significant changes to the 
accounting policies adopted by the Group during 
the year ended 30 June 2015.
As previously disclosed, the Group has revised 
its segmental reporting this year. The Group’s 
segmental reporting and related comparators have 
been revised to highlight the contribution from the 
Residential division, Kier Living. This additional 
disclosure highlights the Group’s growth aspirations 
in the mixed tenure housing market in particular.
Revenue
1,4
13
14
12
11
 £2,938m
15 £3,351m
 £1,958m
 £2,039m
 £2,140m
Underlying financial performance
Revenue
1,4
, including share of joint ventures, has 
increased 14% to £3,351m (2014: £2,938m) 
reflecting strong organic growth across all divisions 
within the Group. The acquisition of Mouchel on 
8 June 2015 had a minimal impact on the overall 
Group revenue for the period, with like-for-like 
revenue increasing 12%.
Revenue
1
 from the Group’s Property division of 
£126m represented a 24%
5
 increase from the prior 
year and average capital invested was £83m (2014
5
: 
£61m). There is an increasingly robust external 
market and this has contributed to a strong pipeline 
of future development, in excess of £1.0bn. The 
Group’s portfolio remains predominantly non-
speculative in nature centred on the commercial, 
retail and business park sectors.
The Residential division, which includes private 
housing, mixed tenure housing and contracted 
residential projects also saw strong growth in the 
period with revenues increasing 10% to £257m 
(2014
5
: £233m). This turnover was highly second 
half weighted with 66% of unit volumes reported in 
the latter period.
The Construction division which includes UK Regional 
Building, UK Infrastructure and international 
construction saw revenues
1,4
 increase 15% to 
£1,721m (2014
5
: £1,498m) with a significant 
rebound in the UK regional building market being 
the main driver for this growth.
Within the Services division, the Group saw volumes
1
 
increase to £1,247m (2014: £1,104m), growth 
of 13%. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of 
Mouchel like-for-like organic growth was 8%. The 
Services division benefited materially from contract 
awards in the first half of the year on the AMP6 water 
maintenance cycle with £535m of work won to be 
delivered over the next five years.
Underlying operating profit
2,4
, including share of joint 
venture income of £103.7m (2014: £87.3m), was 
19% higher than the prior year reflecting the strong 
trading performance of all of the Group’s divisions 
and the improving UK trading environment.
The results of the Property division highlight the 
benefits of our ongoing non-speculative investment 
strategy with underlying operating profits
2
 of £22.7m 
(2014
5
: £16.0m) being 42% higher than in 2014. 
The majority of the income, 59%, was generated 
outside of the London market where the Group is 
benefiting from a recovery in the regional commercial 
development and letting market. This reflects a ROCE 
of 27.4% (2014
5
: 26.2%) with the increasing use of 
joint venture arrangements and associated non-
recourse debt enhancing the efficiency of the 
Group’s capital usage. The Group is maintaining 
its commitments to its 15% ROCE hurdle rate in 
the medium term.
The Residential division returns have increased 
45% to £11.2m (2014
5
: £7.7m). As the Group trades 
out of legacy land held at nil margins and also 
generates increased scale within its mixed tenure 
business, margins have increased to a blended 
4.4% (2014: 3.3%) across the open market and 
mixed tenure businesses.
The Construction division delivered an underlying 
operating profit
2,4
 of £37.7m (2014
5
: £30.2m), a 25% 
increase on the prior year and an overall underlying 
operating margin
2,4
 on Group revenue of 2.2% (2014
5
: 
2.0%). The Group has continued its highly selective 
approach to tendering and bidding for new work and 
its prudent approach to margin recognition; as such 
this represents a robust return reflective of a strong 
delivery capability and a recovering market, 
particularly in UK Regional Building.
A strong profit 
performance across 
all divisions with a 
capital structure and 
forward order book 
positioning the Group 
for future growth.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54 Bev Dew  
Finance Director
£3.3bn
Group revenue
4
 
£85.9m
Underlying profit 
before tax
2,4
£9.3bn
Construction and 
Services order book
Financial performance
Continuing operations
2015 
Year ended
30 June 
2014 
Year ended
4
30 June 
Change
%
Like for like
%
Revenue
1
£3.4bn £2.9bn +14 +12
Group revenue £3.3bn £2.9bn +13 +11
Operating profit – Underlying
2
£103.7m £87.3m +19 +16
– Reported £60.9m £34.3m +78 +79
Profit before tax – Underlying
2
£85.9m £73.7m +17
– Reported £39.5m £15.4m +156
Earnings per share
3
 – Underlying 96.0p 87.5p +10
– Basic 40.2p 16.2p +148
Dividend per share
3
55.2p 57.6p -4
1
 Group and share of joint ventures.
2
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
3
 Restated to reflect the impact of the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction (see note 24 
to the consolidated financial statements).
4
 Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities as 
discontinued operations.
5
 Restated to reflect the creation of the Residential division, comprising elements previously included within the Property 
and Construction divisions.
The Services division generated £58.0m of underlying 
operating profit
2
 in the year, a 9% increase from the 
prior year with a three week contribution from 
Mouchel. The contribution from the acquired Mouchel 
business was immaterial in the period. The overall 
underlying operating margin
2
 of 4.7% (2014: 4.8%) 
was down 0.1% on the prior period. This reduction 
reflects the high volume of bidding costs incurred on 
the successful AMP tenders in the first half of the 
financial year and the impact of a significant reduction 
in market prices for recyclate within the Group’s 
environmental business. The recyclate issue adversely 
impacted operating profit by £4.0m. The highways and 
utilities businesses performed well and in line with 
management expectations as did the FM and housing 
maintenance businesses.
Further information relating to the operating 
performance of each of the divisions is contained 
within the divisional reviews.
Total corporate costs of £25.9m have increased 
by £6.0m from the prior year. Whilst the IAS19R 
pension charge has decreased to £6.8m (2014: 
£13.6m) due to the cessation of the final salary 
pension scheme, the unrecovered Group overheads 
increased to £19.1m (2014: £6.3m) as the Group 
continues to mature and expand, and additional 
investment in risk management, IT and core 
commercial and financial controls has been 
made during the year. 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
55
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Financial Review continued
Corporate costs
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Unrecovered overhead (19.1) (6.3)
IAS19R pension charge (6.8) (13.6)
(25.9) (19.9)
Underlying net finance costs
1
 – continuing operations
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net interest receivable/(payable) on operating cash balances 0.7 (1.5)
Interest payable and fees on committed borrowings (13.7) (7.6)
Interest payable on finance leases (2.6) (2.7)
Net interest on net defined benefit obligations (2.2) (1.8)
(17.8) (13.6)
The net underlying finance cost
1
 for the Group of 
£17.8m is £4.2m higher than in the prior year with 
additional costs associated with higher average 
borrowings driven by the second half weighting of 
the Residential division and the US private debt 
placement made in November 2014.
The tax charge for the Group of £16.9m in the 
period represents an effective rate of 19.7%. This 
is a discount of 1.05% against the UK standard 
corporation rate for the year (20.75%) and is driven 
by the accounting for profit on the disposal of PFI 
investments and a minor re-appraisal of prior period 
taxation provisions.
Overall underlying EPS
2
 from continuing operations 
of 96.0 pence (2014: 87.5 pence) represented a 
10% increase from last year. The number of shares 
in issue increased from 55.3m last year end to 
95.2m at 30 June 2015, the increase driven by scrip 
dividend (0.1m shares), share ownership schemes 
(0.2m shares) and the Mouchel transaction 
(39.6m shares).
Corporate activity
During the year, the business acquired the share 
capital of MBRL Limited, the parent company of 
the Mouchel Group. This transaction completed on 
8 June 2015 for a net consideration of £260.6m. 
In addition to the purchase price, the Kier Group 
also acquired the existing pension liability of £74.9m 
at 30 June 2015.
The purchase was funded by a 5-for-7 rights issue 
priced at 34.3% discount to the theoretical ex-rights 
price (‘TERP’), where 39.6m shares were offered to 
existing holders raising £340.2m. This increased 
the total number of shares in issue at 30 June to 
95,159,247 and the weighted average number of 
shares in issue during the year to 70.7m.
We are undertaking a comprehensive review of 
the assets, liabilities and contracts acquired. A 
preliminary fair value adjustment of £15.1m has been 
recorded in the 2015 financial year and is broadly in 
line with management’s expectations. This adjustment 
will be finalised in the 2016 financial year. In 
accordance with the acquisition accounting guidelines 
in IFRS3, £301.3m of goodwill and £141.0m of 
intangible contract rights with associated non-cash 
deferred tax liability of £28.2m were recognised on 
the acquisition of the Mouchel Group.
During the year, the activities of the Fleet & 
Passenger Services business (‘F&PS’) were put 
under review and the business offered for sale in the 
second half of the financial year. Completion was 
achieved on 1 July 2015, for a loss on disposal of 
£2.2m. Disposal costs of £3.4m have been shown 
within non-underlying items in the current year. 
Discontinued operations
The Group classified its UK mining operations based 
in Greenburn, Ayrshire as a discontinued operation in 
the period. The fall in the coal price from US$80-
US$85 per tonne in 2014 to US$55-US$60 per 
tonne in 2015, the conclusion of our forward sale 
agreement with our existing clients and the Group’s 
continuing focus on strategic alignment of operations 
and delivery of a 15% return on capital has resulted 
in the Group seeking external buyers for the 
operation. In light of these factors, the Group has 
re-assessed the carrying value of its UK mining 
operations and this has resulted in a non-cash and 
non-underlying impairment charge of £22.9m being 
recognised in 2015. The trading loss for the year 
of £2.9m (2014: £0.6m loss) has been separately 
disclosed within discontinued operations. The 
2015/16 cash outflow in respect of this disposal 
is estimated at £8m.
1
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
2
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  
Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities as 
discontinued operations. Restated for the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction; 
see notes 11 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56 Non-underlying items
The Group incurred £69.3m (2014: £58.3m) 
of non-underlying costs in the year, of which 
£46.4m (2014: £58.3m) related to continuing 
operations. £22.9m (2014: nil) of this charge 
relates to discontinued UK mining operations 
as described above. 
Non-underlying items from continuing operations 
comprise the amortisation of intangible contract 
rights of £11.2m (2014: £10.8m), unwinding of 
discount in respect of deferred consideration and 
fair value adjustments made on acquisition of 
£3.6m (2014: £5.3m), and other non-underlying 
items of £31.6m (2014: £42.2m) before the 
associated tax credit of £6.9m (2014: £9.8m).
There were four main components to other 
non-underlying items referred to above:
• £13.5m costs associated with the issue of 
share capital for the acquisition of the Mouchel 
business and the due diligence and adviser 
costs arising from the transaction;
• £8.4m of costs driven by post acquisition 
restructuring and transformation of the acquired 
Mouchel business;
• £6.3m of costs associated with the closure to 
future accrual of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. 
£5.2m of this represents a non-cash adjustment 
to actuarial assumptions; and
• £3.4m of costs associated with disposal of the 
F&PS business on 1 July 2015. It is anticipated 
that a gain on disposal of £1.2m will be 
accounted for the 2016 financial year in 
respect of this transaction.
Other non-underlying items
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Costs relating to acquisition 
of Mouchel (13.5) –
Restructuring and 
transformation costs following 
the acquisition of Mouchel (8.4) –
Costs associated with 
cessation of the Kier Group 
final salary pension scheme (6.3) –
Costs relating to the disposal 
of Fleet & Passenger Services (3.4) –
Costs relating to acquisition 
of May Gurney – (8.1)
Restructuring and 
transformation costs following 
the acquisition of May Gurney – (29.6)
Construction Workers 
Compensation Scheme costs – (4.5)
Total non-underlying items 
relating to continuing 
operations (31.6) (42.2)
Discontinued – UK mining (22.9) –
Total non-underlying items (54.5) (42.2)
The cash outflow this year in respect of these 
non-underlying items was £18.8m.
Cash and liquidity
The business delivered a strong cash performance 
during the year and is reporting overall net debt of 
£140.8m (2014: £122.8m) excluding finance leases. 
This is below the long-term balanced position for the 
Group’s capital structure which anticipates year-end 
net debt of between £150m and £170m.
The cash performance of the Group has six 
main drivers:
• The impact of corporate activity, in particular 
the acquisition of Mouchel;
• Operating profits generated by the Group;
• Working capital movements within operational 
business units;
• Investments in the Property and Residential 
divisions and Group IT projects;
• Payments in respect of dividends, interest, 
tax and pensions; and
• The cash impact of non-underlying items.
The acquisition of Mouchel was completed on 8 June 
2015. £340.2m of capital was raised which was 
used to acquire the share capital of MRBL Limited 
for £260.6m and also resulted in the £61.8m of 
Mouchel debt being incorporated onto the Group 
balance sheet.
Operating cash of £110.2m was generated, 
representing a robust performance across the Group 
and 106.2% of operating profit over the same period.
Working capital cash inflow of £57.8m was generated 
in the year. Of this £21.0m represents the working 
capital inflow from the Mouchel Group from their 
monthly low, when acquired, to a more representative 
month-end net debt position of £41.0m. The Group 
position was achieved despite the increasing cash 
requirements of the Infrastructure business in the 
UK and the international construction business 
where the target cost nature of the contracts means 
that costs are reimbursed once expended rather 
than being pre-funded.
The Group invested £82.3m which included £12.2m 
in the year directly into its Residential and Property 
divisions and a further £32.1m (net of dividends) via 
joint ventures into opportunities which allow the Group 
to maximise ROCE. In addition to the above, £17.8m 
was invested into property, plant and equipment, and 
a further £22.6m was invested in intangible assets 
driven by the Group’s commitment to back-office 
improvement and process harmonisation.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
57
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Financial Review continued
Cash performance (£m)
(150)
(125)
(100)
(75)
(50)
(25)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
334
(263)
(123)
(62)
110
58
(141)
(82)
(94)
(19)
June 2014
net debt
1
Rights issue Acquisitions Net debt 
acquired
Operating 
cash ows
Working capital 
movement
Net investment Pension interest 
dividend and tax
Exceptionals June 2015
net debt
1
Tax payments of £3.5m, dividends of £41.4m, 
pension payments of £33.9m and interest of 
£13.9m were made during the year. It should be 
noted that the pension cash impact included a 
one-off cash payment of £15.2m in respect of a 
pension scheme that had been previously provided.
Finally, the cash impact of the items noted as 
non-underlying items was a net outflow of £18.8m. 
These include £14.4m in respect of the pre and 
post-acquisition costs for Mouchel, £1.1m in respect 
of cash costs of the closure to future accrual of the 
pension scheme and £3.3m in respect of the disposal 
of the F&PS business which concluded on 1 July 2015.
The Group’s net debt balance included £146.1m 
(2014: £112.4m) of cash held in joint contracting 
agreements and other cash arrangements including 
project bank accounts which are not available to the 
Group until the contracts near completion, an increase 
of 30%. The liquid cash position is also affected by 
seasonal, monthly and contract specific stage 
completion and payment patterns. Excluding balances 
within the acquired Mouchel business this balance 
has broadly remained unchanged year-on-year.
Order books
The Group’s forward workload has increased from 
£6.2bn in June 2014 to £9.3bn in June 2015, a 50% 
increase on the prior year. Of this increase, £2.7bn 
represents the acquired order book from Mouchel, 
excluding potential contract extensions.
At 30 June
2015 
£bn
2014 
£bn
Construction 3.3 2.5
Services 6.0 3.7
9.3 6.2
The Group’s disclosed order book balance includes 
contractual, committed orders and preferred bidder 
contracts within its Construction division, and for the 
Services division also includes a prudent assessment 
of the Group’s long-term service contracts, again 
excluding potential contract extensions.
The Construction order book has increased by 32% 
over the year to £3.3bn as the UK building and 
overseas businesses in particular have seen very 
strong performance, notably with framework clients in 
the UK and led by UK Export Finance in the Middle East.
The Services order book increased by 62% to £6.0bn 
and included the benefit of the £2.7bn Mouchel order 
book. Within the Services division, a strong first half 
performance led by the AMP6 water framework wins 
was followed by a temporary hiatus immediately pre 
and post-election. As a consequence the order book, 
excluding the impact of Mouchel, has declined 11%.
Pensions
The Group’s balance sheet includes aggregate 
deficits net of deferred tax of £122.9m (2014: 
£47.9m) for the Group’s pension schemes. The 
Group recorded net actuarial losses on those 
schemes of £27.2m (2014: £23.6m). The Group’s 
principal pension scheme is the Kier Group Pension 
Scheme. The Group acquired four pension schemes 
as part of the Mouchel transaction. In addition, the 
Group also participates in two smaller schemes 
acquired with May Gurney. 
In February 2015, the Group closed the defined 
benefit section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme 
to future accrual (as described in the non-underlying 
items section above). All of the Group’s defined 
benefit schemes are now closed to future accrual. 
There was good asset growth in the year to £919.4m 
(2014: £837.1m), with most of the increase arising 
in the first half of the year. Liabilities however 
increased by £94.4m to £994.6m (2014: £900.2m). 
1
 Excludes finance lease obligations.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58 This was largely driven by the reduction in the 
long-term corporate bond yield from 4.4% in 2014 
to 3.9% in 2015. These combine to give an overall 
post-tax deficit of £60.2m (2014: £50.5m).
On 8 June 2015 the Group acquired the Mouchel 
pension schemes as part of the acquisition. The 
technical assumptions have been aligned to those 
adopted by the Kier Group Pension Scheme. The 
Mouchel related pension schemes had post-tax 
deficit of £59.9m at 30 June 2015.
The assets and liabilities of one of the May Gurney 
schemes, TransLinc, is associated with the F&PS 
business and accordingly the defined benefit asset 
net of deferred tax of £2.1m is included within assets 
held for sale at 30 June 2015 and subsequently 
disposed of as part of the sale on 1 July 2015. The 
net deficit on the remaining May Gurney pension 
scheme was £2.8m.
Note 8 to the financial statements includes a 
sensitivity analysis which highlights the effect of 
changes to key assumptions behind the valuation 
of the pension schemes. A net underlying operating 
pension charge of £6.8m (2014: £13.6m) has been 
recorded in the income statement. The Group has 
committed to cash contributions under deficit 
recovery plans for all of its pension schemes, 
totalling £26m in the next financial year.
Treasury facilities and policies
Facility type
Facility
amount
 (£m) Expiry
Revolving credit facility 380 2020
Funding for lending term loan 30 2017
US private placement 183 2019, 2021
2022, 2024
Overdrafts 45 n/a
Asset finance 103 n/a
Total 741 n/a
The Group revised its banking facilities as part of a 
review of its capital structure in conjunction with the 
Mouchel acquisition, combining a number of existing 
facilities under a single revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) 
with five lending banks to the value of £380m.
In November 2014, the Group undertook a private 
debt placement in the US which raised approximately 
£120.1m of fixed-rate debt, maturing between 7 and 
10 years. US dollar-denominated notes were hedged 
with cross-currency SWAPs to mitigate the foreign 
exchange rate risk.
Overall debt facilities have increased to £637.7m 
(2014: £377.7m) following the transactions noted 
above, with a weighted average maturity date of 2021.
The Group has £71.7m of finance lease obligations 
on the balance sheet at year end of which £31.1m 
relates to the F&PS business (included in assets held 
for resale) which was disposed of on 1 July 2015. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and 
liquid investments. The Group, largely through its PFI 
and property joint ventures, enters into derivative 
transactions (principally interest rate swaps) to manage 
interest rate risks arising from its operations and its 
sources of finance. The US dollar denominated loan 
notes have been hedged with fixed cross-currency 
swaps at inception to mitigate the foreign exchange risk. 
The Group does not enter into speculative transactions.
There are minor foreign currency risks arising from 
our operations. The Group has a limited number of 
international operations in different currencies. 
Currency exposure to international assets is hedged 
through inter-company balances and borrowings, so 
that assets denominated in foreign currencies are 
matched, as far as possible, by liabilities. Where 
there may be further exposure to currency 
fluctuations, forward exchange contracts are 
completed to buy and sell foreign currency.
Dividend policy
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 36 pence on 
the increased 95.2m shares in issue at 30 June 2015. 
The calculation presented for dividend per share 
(‘DPS’) is the technical disclosure that assumes the 
shares were in issue for the full 12 month period. The 
shares in issue increased from 55.6m to 95.2m for 
the final three week period in this financial year. The 
Board is therefore recommending a dividend which 
recognises the increased investment by shareholders 
but also that there was only a three week period to 
generate returns to fund the final dividend.
Combined with an interim dividend declared of 
24 pence per share for shares in issue at February 
2015, the total dividend declared this year is therefore 
£47.3m (2014: £39.4m), which represents a 20% 
increase on 2014 and reaffirms our progressive 
dividend policy. On a statutory basis the dividend of 
55.2 pence per share is a 4.2% reduction on the 
restated 2014 dividend.
Going concern
The Chief Executive’s strategic review highlights 
the activities of the Group and those factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance 
and financial position. These statements and 
assumptions have been carefully considered by 
the Board in relation to the ability of the Group 
to operate within its current and foreseeable 
resources, both financial and operational.
The Group has significant financial resources, 
committed banking facilities, long-term contracts and 
long order books. For these reasons, the directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Group’s financial statements.
Bev Dew
Finance Director
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
59
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Chairman’s introduction  
to governance
As a board, we believe that the Group and the 
delivery of its strategy should be based on strong 
governance. We also believe that good governance 
is essential to the way in which we operate on a 
day-to-day basis. A summary of how our governance 
framework has supported our strategy and 
operations is set out on page 61. 
In this part of the annual report, we describe 
governance at Kier, the principal areas of activity of 
the Board and its committees throughout the year 
and how we have complied with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012 edition) 
(‘the Code’), demonstrating our commitment to 
applying high standards of corporate governance. 
In this introduction, I set out a summary of how 
we have applied the main principles of the Code.
Compliance with the Code
During the 2015 financial year, the Company 
continued to apply the main principles of the Code 
and complied with the provisions of the Code, 
except in certain areas. Further details are set out 
on page 63.
We also monitored the changes to the Code which 
were made in the September 2014 edition and are 
expressed to apply to financial years commencing 
on or after 1 October 2014, in preparation for our 
2016 financial year. A full version of the Code can be 
found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website: 
http://www.frc.org.uk.
Leadership and effectiveness
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-
term success of the Group, for developing and 
delivering its strategy and for establishing a 
framework of prudent and effective controls to 
assess and manage risk effectively. Kier continues 
to be led by a board with a range of skills and 
experience which will challenge, motivate and 
support the business. Please see page 67 for an 
overview of the governance and management 
structure of the Group. 
As we identified in our 2014 annual report, Board 
succession planning was one of the key priorities 
in 2015. During the course of the year, there have 
been a number of changes to the composition of 
the Board. On 1 September 2014, Kirsty Bashforth 
joined the Board as a non-executive director. On 
1 January 2015, Bev Dew joined as the new Finance 
Director. In March 2015, we announced that Nigel 
Brook (Executive Director – Construction and 
Infrastructure Services), Nigel Turner (Executive 
Director – Developments and Property Services) 
and Claudio Veritiero (Group Strategy and Corporate 
Development Director) had been appointed to the 
Board and that Steve Bowcott, the former Chief 
Operating Officer, would stand down from the Board. 
It was particularly pleasing that the three new 
directors were internal promotions and we have been 
delighted with their performance since appointment. 
We believe that these appointments will enable the 
Board to more effectively oversee progress against 
the Group’s strategy: two of the new executive 
directors are actively involved in the day-to-day 
delivery of the Group’s strategy through their 
respective businesses. The appointment of Claudio 
Veritiero to the Board, as Group Strategy and 
Corporate Development Director, demonstrates the 
strength of our commitment to deliver Vision 2020. 
The skills and experience of the executive 
directors are balanced by those of the non-executive 
directors, who bring a depth and breadth of 
experience in senior management roles, finance, 
governance and risk management, among other 
matters. Please see pages 64 to 66 (inclusive) for 
the directors’ biographies.
Since the appointments of Nigel, Nigel and Claudio, 
the Board has not complied with provision B.1.2 of 
the Code, which requires at least half of the Board 
(excluding the Chairman) to be independent non-
executive directors. We were therefore pleased 
to announce the appointment of Justin Atkinson 
as an independent non-executive director with 
effect from 1 October 2015. Justin’s experience 
of the construction industry, both in the UK and 
internationally, complements the skills and 
Phil White  
Chairman
 “As a board, we 
believe that the 
Group and the 
delivery of its 
strategy should 
be based on 
strong governance.”
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60 Strategic priority The Board’s governance role
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Operate a safe  
and sustainable 
business
The Board considers health and safety at every Board meeting, with both 
the Chief Executive and the Group Safety, Health and Environment Director 
(‘the Group SHE Director’) providing reports on the Group’s current safety, 
health and environment (‘SHE’) performance.
The Safety, Health and Environment Committee considers the Group’s 
strategic SHE priorities and assists management to ensure that SHE 
risks are appropriately managed throughout the Group. Please see pages 
82 and 83 for the safety, health and environment Committee Report.
The Board oversaw the launch of the Group’s strategy for a sustainable 
business in March 2015.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Accelerate growth to 
be a top three player 
in our chosen markets
The Board reviews and approves material acquisitions. For example, during 
the course of the year, the Board approved the acquisition of Mouchel, which 
has significantly accelerated the delivery of the Group’s Vision 2020 strategy.
During the course of the year, the Group Strategy and Corporate Development 
Director (Claudio Veritiero) was appointed to the Board and, at each Board 
meeting, provides an update on progress against the Group’s strategy.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Achieve top quartile 
performance and 
efficiency
At each Board meeting, detailed reports are produced by the executive 
directors with operational responsibilities as to the performance of the 
businesses for which they are responsible. In addition, further detailed 
discussions as to individual businesses’ performance and efficiency are 
held at meetings of the Executive Committee, which comprises the 
executive directors and the Company Secretary. 
Please see the divisional reviews set out on pages 38 to 53 (inclusive) 
for further information.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Provide sector-
leading customer 
experience
The Board reports produced by the executive directors with operational 
responsibilities also provide details of feedback (both positive and negative) 
from customers, together with examples of significant contract awards and 
disputes. These reports are discussed by the Board, with the non-executive 
directors providing constructive challenge to the executive directors and 
mangement whch is designed to drive a sector-leading experience for the 
Group’s customers.
Operational performance and issues affecting or relevant to customer 
relationships are also discussed at meetings of the Executive Committee.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Attract and retain  
highly motivated, 
high-performing 
teams
At each Board meeting, the executive directors report on significant 
changes in personnel, any new senior appointments and steps being taken 
to ensure that teams remain highly motivated and high-performing. 
The Board also supported the appointment of a new Group HR Director 
during the course of the year, who will oversee the Group’s framework for 
attracting and retaining talent throughout its operations.
During the course of the year, the Nomination Committee also discussed in 
detail the succession plan relating to senior management below the Board 
and made three internal promotions to the Board. 
Please see pages 74 and 75 for the Nomination Committee Report.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS
Ensure we have 
investment in 
technology and  
back-office systems
During the course of the year, a significant focus for the Board has been 
overseeing the planned introduction of a new ERP system. 
Regular updates on progress against the project plan are provided to the 
Board and the Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘the RMAC’) 
receives detailed status reports at each committee meeting.
How governance has supported 
our strategy during 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
61
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Chairman’s introduction  
to governance continued
experience of the other non-executive directors. 
Justin will be a member of all four of the Board’s 
committees and will be present at the 2015 AGM 
to answer any questions about his new role.
More details of our compliance with the leadership 
and effectiveness provisions of the Code can be 
found on pages 67 to 72 (inclusive).
Accountability 
As a board, we understand our responsibility 
to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects 
in this annual report. We also understand the need 
to maintain sound risk management and internal 
control systems. We are aware of the changes to 
the Code, which will apply to Kier’s 2016 financial 
year. In particular, we note the requirement to make 
a statement as to the Group’s longer-term viability in 
next year’s report and accounts and the Board and 
the RMAC are already working together to ensure 
that we can comply with this requirement next year.
During the course of the year, the RMAC has 
assisted the Board to discharge its obligations with 
respect to the management of risk. A summary of 
the matters considered by the RMAC during the 
course of the year is set out in the Risk Management 
and Audit Committee Report contained on pages 
76 to 81 (inclusive).
Further information relating to our compliance with 
the accountability provisions of the Code are set out 
on page 72.
Remuneration
Having received 76.24% of the votes in favour 
of our Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM, we 
were pleased to receive 98.87% of votes in favour 
of our remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM; 
88.52% of votes in favour of our Remuneration Report 
also represented a significant improvement on the 
number of votes in favour of the report at the 2013 
AGM. We recognise, however, that we need to 
continue to engage with shareholders on remuneration 
matters to ensure that we understand their views.
The remuneration of the four executive directors who 
were appointed during the year is within the policy 
which was approved by shareholders last year. In 
addition, the terms agreed with Steve Bowcott on 
his departure from the Board are within the terms 
of the policy on payments for loss of office. Further 
information on the remuneration of the newly-
appointed executive directors and a summary of the 
terms agreed with Steve Bowcott are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 106 (inclusive). 
The policy remains unchanged for the 2016 financial 
year; as a result, we will not be seeking approval for 
any changes to our existing remuneration policy at 
the 2015 AGM.
Relations with shareholders
Members of the Board have met a number of our 
key stakeholders during the year to understand 
their views on matters of significance to them. For 
example, our new appointments to the Board have, 
during their first few months on the Board, met a 
number of shareholders and analysts. As Chairman, 
I welcome the opportunity to meet shareholders and 
my discussions with them during the course of the 
year on a variety of governance and strategy matters 
have helped to ensure that I can keep the Board 
informed about their issues and concerns. Further 
details on our engagement with shareholders are 
set out on page 73.
 
Phil White
Chairman of the Board
16 September 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62 Compliance with the Code
Application of the main principles of the Code 
During the 2015 financial year, the Company continued to apply the main principles of the Code, as follows:
A. Leadership B. Effectiveness
A1 The Board’s role 
The Board met formally 10 times during the year. 
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for 
the Board, together with delegated authorities 
throughout the Group.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities  
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive  
are clearly defined. Phil White, the Chairman, is 
responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of 
the Board. Haydn Mursell, the Chief Executive, is 
responsible for leading the day-to-day management 
of the Group within the strategy set by the Board.
A3 Role of the Chairman 
The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, 
manages the meeting timetable (in conjunction 
with the Company Secretary) and facilitates open 
and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
A4 Role of the non-executive directors 
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive 
environment in the boardroom and actively invites 
the non-executive directors’ views. The non-
executive directors provide objective, rigorous and 
constructive challenge to management and meet 
regularly in the absence of the executive directors.
B1 The Board’s composition 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
regularly reviewing the composition of the Board. In 
making appointments to the Board, the Nomination 
Committee considers the wide range of skills, 
knowledge and experience required in order to 
maintain an effective board.
B2 Board appointments 
The appointment of new directors to the Board is 
led by the Nomination Committee. Further details 
of the activities of the Nomination Committee can 
be found on pages 74 and 75.
B3 Time commitments 
On appointment, directors are notified of the 
time commitment expected from them which, in 
practice, goes beyond that set out in the letter of 
appointment. External directorships, which may 
impact existing time commitments, must be agreed 
with the Chairman.
B4 Training and development 
All directors receive an induction on joining the 
Board and training is made available to members 
of the Board in accordance with their requirements.
B5 Provision of information and support 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive 
accurate and timely information.
B6 Board and committee  
performance evaluation 
During the 2015 financial year, the Board 
undertook an evaluation of its performance during 
the year. Details of the evaluation can be found 
on pages 71 and 72.
B7 Re-election of the directors 
All directors were subject to shareholder election or 
re-election at the 2014 AGM, as will be the case at 
the 2015 AGM.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E.  Relations with shareholders
C1 Financial and business reporting 
The Board has established arrangements to ensure 
that reports and other information published by the 
Group are fair, balanced and understandable. The 
Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 59 (inclusive) 
and this provides information about the performance 
of the Group, the business model, strategy and 
the risks and uncertainties relating to the Group’s 
future prospects. 
C2 Risk management and internal 
control systems 
The Board sets out the Group’s risk appetite and 
annually reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control systems. The 
activities of the RMAC, which assists the Board with 
its responsibilities in relation to the management of 
risk, are summarised on pages 76 to 81 (inclusive).
C3 Role and responsibilities of the Risk 
Management and Audit Committee 
The Board has delegated a number of 
responsibilities to the RMAC, which is responsible 
for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting 
processes, internal control and risk management 
framework and the work undertaken by the external 
auditor. The chairman of the RMAC provides regular 
updates to the Board.
D1 Levels and elements of remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of 
remuneration appropriately so as to attract, retain 
and motivate the Board, but also structures 
remuneration so as to link it to both corporate 
and individual performance, thereby aligning 
management’s interests with those of shareholders.
D2 Development of remuneration policy 
and packages 
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee 
and the approach to setting the remuneration policy 
can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 
84 to 106 (inclusive).
E1 Shareholder engagement and dialogue 
The Board takes an active role in engaging with 
shareholders. The Board particularly values 
opportunities to meet with shareholders and the 
Chairman ensures that the Board is kept informed 
of shareholder views.
E2 Constructive use of the AGM 
The AGM provides the Board with an important 
opportunity to meet with shareholders, who are 
invited to meet the Board following the formal 
business of the meeting.
Compliance with the Code provisions
An explanation of the Company’s non-compliance with certain Code provisions during the 2015 financial year is as follows:
Code provision Explanation
B.1.2 – at least half of the Board (excluding 
the Chairman) to comprise independent  
non-executive directors.
Since the appointment of the three new executive directors in March 2015, the Board has not complied with 
this requirement. However, the appointment of Justin Atkinson as an independent non-executive director with 
effect from 1 October 2015 means that, with effect from that date, the Board will comply with B.1.2.
B.2.3 – non-executive directors to be appointed for 
a specified term.
The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment each contain notice periods of one month (either way) and 
their appointments are subject to annual re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of 
directors, but do not contain a specified term. The Company’s current policy is that all directors, including the 
non-executive directors, will be subject to annual re-election at the Company’s AGM. These arrangements are 
designed to provide the Company with the flexibility to maintain an appropriate range of skills and experience 
on the Board. 
C.3.5 – internal auditor effectiveness. During the year, the Group changed internal auditor from PwC to KPMG. For the RMAC to be able to assess its 
effectiveness as internal auditor, KPMG needs to have completed a sufficient number of internal audits. The 
next formal assessment of the internal auditor will, therefore, take place in the 2016 financial year. See the 
Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on pages 76 to 81 (inclusive) for further details.
E.1.1 – the Senior Independent Director 
should attend sufficient meetings with a 
range of major shareholders.
During the year, the Senior Independent Director has met with a limited number of major shareholders. The 
Chairman and other members of the Board have, however, met a number of major shareholders during the 
year to discuss a variety of matters, so as to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns. 
The Board intends to review the number of meetings between the Senior Independent Director and 
shareholders during the 2016 financial year.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
63
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Phil White CBE
Chairman 
Age 65 
 
Date appointed to Board/
as Chairman:  
July 2006/January 2008
Tenure on Board:  
9 years, 2 months
Independent: Yes
Committee memberships:
• Chair of the Nomination 
Committee
• Remuneration Committee
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered accountant with 
substantial operational and 
commercial experience, 
particularly within the 
transport and contracting 
sectors
• Significant level of listed 
company board experience 
gained in executive and 
non-executive roles
• Formerly chief executive of 
National Express Group plc 
from 1997 to 2006
• Experienced in mergers 
and acquisitions and 
strategy development 
Principal external 
appointments:
• Chairman, Lookers
• Chairman, The Unite Group
• Non-Executive Director, 
Stagecoach Group
• Non-Executive Director, Vp
Nigel Brook
Executive Director – 
Construction and 
Infrastructure Services 
Age 57
Date appointed to Board: 
March 2015 
Tenure on Board:  
6 months
Independent: No
Committee memberships:  
None
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered quantity surveyor 
and a member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors 
• Over 35 years’ experience in 
the construction sector, having 
previously held roles at AMEC, 
Ballast and Miller Construction
• Significant experience in 
management and delivery of 
large and complex projects 
throughout the UK
• Strong track record of 
customer service and 
operational performance 
improvement
• Strong track record on health 
and safety matters
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Haydn Mursell
Chief Executive 
Age 44 
 
Date appointed to Board/
as Chief Executive:  
November 2010/July 2014
Tenure on Board:  
4 years, 10 months
Independent: No
Committee memberships:  
None
Relevant skills and 
experience:
• A chartered accountant, 
having trained and qualified 
at KPMG 
• Significant sector experience 
through previous senior 
finance roles at Balfour Beatty 
and Bovis Lend Lease
• Operational leadership 
experience gained through 
previous responsibility for 
the Property division
• Detailed knowledge of the 
Group gained through previous 
role as finance director, 
in particular 
• Strong track record in mergers 
and acquisitions, both at Kier 
and in previous organisations
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Bev Dew
Finance Director 
Age 44 
 
Date appointed to Board: 
January 2015 
Tenure on Board:  
8 months
Independent: No
Committee memberships:  
None
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered accountant, 
having trained and qualified 
at Coopers & Lybrand 
• Over 18 years’ experience 
in the construction industry, 
with previous senior finance 
roles at Balfour Beatty, 
Lendlease, Redrow and 
Invensys Rail 
• Significant experience in 
finance and capital structures
• Strong track record in 
cost control, cash flow 
management and pension 
scheme risk management 
• Recent experience of ERP and 
other management information 
systems implementation 
programmes
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Corporate governance
Board of directors
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64 Richard Bailey
Senior Independent Director 
Age 63 
 
Date appointed to Board: 
October 2010
Tenure on Board:  
4 years, 11 months
Independent: Yes
Committee memberships:
• Chair of the Risk Management 
and Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered accountant, 
having trained and qualified 
at PwC
• Significant experience of 
public and private corporate 
transactions and financings 
through his role as a partner 
with Rothschild
• In-depth knowledge of 
financial matters, gained 
through advising clients in 
a variety of sectors, including 
construction, property, house 
building and financial services
• Detailed knowledge of best 
practice in risk management 
and internal control
Principal external 
appointments:
• Partner, N M Rothschild & 
Sons Ltd
Nigel Turner
Executive Director – 
Developments and Property 
Services 
Age 50
Date appointed to Board: 
March 2015
Tenure on Board:  
6 months
Independent: No
Committee memberships:  
None
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered surveyor and a 
member of the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors
• Detailed knowledge of the 
property developments sector, 
in particular
• Significant commercial and 
transactional experience, 
having negotiated a large 
number of investments and 
other projects in his career 
• Detailed knowledge of the 
Group’s business units 
through their interaction 
with the Property business 
• Experienced in dealing with 
lenders, joint venture partners 
and other key stakeholders
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Kirsty Bashforth
Non-Executive Director 
Age 45 
 
Date appointed to Board: 
September 2014
Tenure on Board:  
1 year
Independent: Yes
Committee memberships:
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
• Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
• Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
Relevant skills and 
experience:
• Significant experience in 
organisational effectiveness, 
principally through her 
previous role as Group 
Head of Organisational 
Effectiveness at BP 
• A wide range of experience in 
a variety of human resources 
matters, including diversity 
and ethical working practices
• Strong track record of driving 
group-wide development and 
change programmes
• In-depth commercial, risk 
management and operational 
experience through various 
roles during over 24 years 
at BP
Principal external 
appointments:
• Governor at Leeds Beckett 
University (Finance Staffing 
& Resources Committee, 
Governor Champion Equality 
& Diversity)
• A number of the steering 
committees of the Two 
Percent Club and the Balanced 
Business Forum
Claudio Veritiero
Executive Director – Group 
Strategy and Corporate 
Development Director 
Age 41
Date appointed to Board: 
March 2015
Tenure on Board:  
6 months
Independent: No
Committee memberships:  
None
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• Significant experience of a 
wide variety of corporate 
transactions during early part 
of career in investment 
banking at Rothschild 
• Previous listed company board 
experience as an executive 
director of Speedy Hire 
• Operational leadership 
experience within Kier through 
previous role as managing 
director of the Services 
division
• Strong record in mergers and 
acquisitions, both at Kier and 
in previous roles
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
65
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Board of directors continued
Nick Winser CBE
Non-Executive Director 
Age 55 
 
Date appointed to Board: 
March 2009
Tenure on Board:  
6 years, 6 months
Independent: Yes
Committee memberships:
• Chair of the Safety, Health 
and Environment Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Remuneration Committee
• Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
Independent: Yes
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A chartered engineer and a 
Fellow of the Royal Academy 
of Engineering
• Significant experience of the 
energy sector, principally 
through his role as a member 
of the board of directors of 
National Grid from 2003 
to 2014
• Experienced in dealings with 
regulators and Government
• A strong track record on 
health and safety and risk 
management through his 
role with National Grid
Principal external 
appointments:
• Chairman of the Energy 
Systems Catapult
• Vice President of the 
Institution of Engineering 
and Technology
• Chairman of CIGRÉ UK
• Chairman of the Power 
Academy
• Trustee of the MS Society
• Director of Way Ahead Support 
Services charity
Hugh Raven
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary 
Age 43 
Date appointed:  
April 2010
Tenure:  
5 years, 4 months
Independent: n/a
Committee memberships: n/a
Relevant skills and 
experience: 
• A solicitor, having qualified 
with Linklaters LLP, and 
a former partner of 
Eversheds LLP
• Significant experience of 
a wide variety of legal and 
regulatory issues, having 
advised a number of public 
and private companies 
• Particular expertise in large 
corporate transactions, 
including capital raisings 
(debt and equity) and mergers 
and acquisitions
• Expertise in corporate 
governance matters and 
best practice
Principal external 
appointments:
• None
Amanda Mellor
Non-Executive Director 
Age 51 
 
Date appointed to Board: 
December 2011
Tenure on Board:  
3 years, 9 months
Independent: Yes
Committee memberships:
• Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee
• Nomination Committee
• Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
• Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
Independent: Yes
Relevant skills and 
experience:
• A Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators
• A strong track record in 
governance, through her role 
as the Group Secretary and 
Head of Corporate Governance 
at Marks & Spencer 
• Detailed knowledge in the 
design and implementation 
of employee and executive 
remuneration
• Considerable experience 
in investor relations and 
communications, through 
previous roles at Marks & 
Spencer and Arcadia Group
• Practical experience of 
risk management and internal 
control best practice
Principal external 
appointments:
• Group Secretary and Head 
of Corporate Governance, 
Marks & Spencer
• Member of the Council and 
Remuneration Committee, 
University of Leeds
• Visiting Professor in Business 
and Professional Ethics, 
University of Leeds
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66 1
 Comprises the executive directors, with the Company Secretary as secretary.
Risk 
Management  
and Audit 
Committee 
– see page 76
Safety, Health  
and Environment 
Committee 
– see page 82 
Remuneration 
Committee 
– see page 84 
 
Executive 
Committee
1 
 
 
Kier Group plc Board
Nomination 
Committee 
– see page 74 
 
Corporate governance
Leadership and effectiveness
Governance structure
An outline of Kier’s governance structure is as follows:
The Board
The Board is responsible for the effective leadership 
of the Group. The Group’s management and 
governance framework, which is summarised above, 
has been implemented to support the Group’s 
long-term growth objectives.
The diverse range of skills and leadership experience of 
the non-executive directors enables them to scrutinise 
performance, assess the Group’s risk management 
and control processes, provide constructive challenge 
and support the executive directors. 
There are typically 10 scheduled Board meetings during 
the year; additional meetings are arranged if 
required. The Board committee meetings are typically 
scheduled around the regular Board meetings. 
Biographical details of each of the directors are set 
out on pages 64 to 66 (inclusive).
Board composition
As at 30 June 2015, the Board comprised the 
Chairman, five executive directors and four other 
non-executive directors.
During the course of the year, the following 
appointments were made to the Board:
• Kirsty Bashforth (Non-Executive Director), 
with effect from 1 September 2014;
• Bev Dew (Finance Director), with effect from 
1 January 2015;
• Nigel Brook (Executive Director – Construction 
and Infrastructure Services), with effect from 
6 March 2015;
• Nigel Turner (Executive Director – Developments 
and Property Services), with effect from 
6 March 2015; and
• Claudio Veritiero (Group Strategy and Corporate 
Development Director), with effect from 
6 March 2015.
Steve Bowcott, the former Chief Operating Officer, 
stood down from the Board with effect from 
27 April 2015. 
On 30 July 2015, we announced that Justin Atkinson 
had been appointed as a non-executive director with 
effect from 1 October 2015.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
67
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Division of responsibilities
A clear division of responsibilities is important for the effective working of the Board. The Chairman and the 
Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship of the Board and the 
Company. The roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are clearly 
defined, as summarised below:
Role Description
Chairman 
Phil White
• Responsible for the Board’s effectiveness
• Sets the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information
• Facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive directors
• Responsible for effective communication with shareholders
Chief Executive 
Haydn Mursell
• Responsible for the operational management of the Group
• Accountable to the Board for the implementation of the Group’s strategy
• Meets regularly with other members of senior management, focusing on a variety of 
matters, including strategy, significant operational issues, succession planning and 
other material issues facing the Group
Senior 
Independent 
Director 
Richard Bailey
• Acts as chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted
• Acts as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other 
channels of communication are not appropriate
• Ensures that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the 
Board and each of its committees. The Chairman 
meets the Senior Independent Director and the 
Company Secretary to discuss Board and governance 
matters. In addition, the Chairman holds meetings 
with the non-executive directors without the 
executive directors being present. The Senior 
Independent Director also holds meetings with the 
non-executive directors without the Chairman being 
present at least once a year. 
Re-election of directors
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, 
each of the current directors will offer himself/herself 
for election or re-election (as the case may be) at 
the AGM on 12 November 2015. As it is the first 
AGM since their appointments, resolutions will 
also be proposed to elect Kirsty Bashforth, Bev Dew, 
Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner, Claudio Veritiero and 
Justin Atkinson as directors.
Following the evaluation of the Board's performance 
during the year, it is confirmed that the performance 
of each of the non-executive directors continues 
to be effective and that they are each considered to 
demonstrate appropriate commitment to the role.
Time commitment
Directors are made aware at the time of appointment 
of the time commitment required to discharge their 
Board and committee responsibilities effectively. 
The terms and conditions of appointment for the 
executive directors and non-executive directors 
will be available at the 2015 AGM and can, at 
other times, be inspected at the Company’s 
registered office.
All executive directors may serve on another board 
of directors, provided that they can demonstrate 
that any such appointment will not interfere with 
their time commitment to the Company and that 
they obtain the agreement of the Chairman to the 
appointment before acceptance. The major 
commitments of the executive and non-executive 
directors are outlined in their biographies on pages 
64 to 66 (inclusive). The Nomination Committee 
remains satisfied that all non-executive directors 
have sufficient time to meet their commitments 
to the Company and that the Chairman’s other 
commitments do not interfere with the performance 
of his day-to-day duties to the Company. 
Board committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities 
to its committees. The terms of reference for each 
committee are reviewed annually and are available 
on the Company’s website at http://www.kier.co.uk/
corporategovernance. The principal activities of 
each of these committees during the year are set 
out in their respective reports on pages 74 to 106 
(inclusive). Executive directors also attend meetings 
of the Board committees when required by the chair 
of the relevant committee to do so. Details of the 
attendance at the Board committees meetings 
during the year are set out in the table on page 69.
The current membership of each Board committee 
is as follows:
Risk
Management
and Audit
Remuneration
Nomination
Safety, Health 
and Environment
Richard Bailey ✓ ✓ ✓ –
Kirsty Bashforth ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Amanda Mellor ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Phil White – ✓ ✓ –
Nick Winser ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
 Denotes the chair of the relevant committee.
Corporate governance
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68 Board meetings
Details of the number of meetings of the Board and 
its committees held during the year, and attendance 
of directors at those meetings, are set out below. 
Meetings are normally held in Tempsford Hall, in 
London or at one of the Group's regional locations or 
sites. For example, the October 2014 Board meeting 
was held in Dubai, enabling the Board also to 
conduct visits to the Group's sites in the region. 
Key activities
The duties of, and those decisions which can 
only be made by, the Board are clearly defined in 
the schedule of matters reserved for the Board. 
The matters requiring Board approval include, 
amongst others:
• The Group’s strategic plans;
• Mergers, acquisitions and disposals of 
a material size and nature;
• Material changes to the Group’s structure 
and capital;
• The payment of dividends; and
• The approval of material Group policies.
The schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board are available on the Company’s website 
at http://www.kier.co.uk/corporategovernance.
Board and committee meeting attendance
The number of Board and committee meetings attended by each director during the 2015 financial year is 
as follows:
Board
(10)
Risk
 Management
and Audit
Committee
(5)
Remuneration
Committee
(3)
Nomination
Committee
(3)
Safety, 
Health and 
Environment
Committee
(5)
Richard Bailey 10 5 3 3 –
Kirsty Bashforth
1
9 5 3 3 5
Steve Bowcott
2
6 – – – –
Nigel Brook
3
4 – – – –
Bev Dew
4
5 – – – –
Amanda Mellor
5
10 5 3 3 4
Haydn Mursell 10 – – – –
Nigel Turner
3
4 – – – –
Claudio Veritiero
3
4 – – – –
Phil White 10 – 3 3 –
Nick Winser 10 5 3 3 5
1
 Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2014 and attended all Board and committee meetings 
since that date.
2
 Steve Bowcott retired from the Board with effect from 27 April 2015 and attended all Board meetings up to (and including) the 
February 2015 meeting.
3
 Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero were appointed to the Board with effect from 6 March 2015 and attended all Board 
meetings since that date.
4
 Bev Dew was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015 and attended all Board meetings since that date.
5
 Amanda Mellor was unable to attend the March 2015 Safety, Health and Environment Committee meeting due to jury service. 
Amanda was provided with the papers and gave her comments in advance of the meeting.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
69
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Leadership and effectiveness continued
The key issues considered at Board meetings during 2015 are summarised in the table below:
Issue Frequency
 1,2
How addressed
Review of safety, financial 
and operational 
performance
1 The Chief Executive’s report on safety, financial and operational 
performance, tenders and order book, investor relations and 
material human resources issues
1 The Finance Director’s report on financial performance, working 
capital management, forecasts and share price performance
1 Reports from the executive directors with operational 
responsibilities as to their businesses’ safety, financial and 
operational performance
2 Review and approval of latest forecasts and budgets
Leadership, governance  
and strategy
1 The Group Strategy and Corporate Development Director's 
monthly report on progress against Vision 2020 
1 Review of directors’ share dealings
2 Review and approval of the Mouchel acquisition
2 Appointment of new directors and succession planning
2 Feedback from meetings of the Board’s committees
2 Evaluation of the Board and its committees
2 Review and authorisation of any conflicts of interest
Accountability, control  
and risk management
2 Review and approval of 2014 annual report and 2015 interim 
results. Approval of final dividend for 2014 and interim dividend 
for 2015
2 Review and approval of trading updates
2 Consideration of reports from the chair of the RMAC on internal 
control and risk management 
2 Consideration of risk management procedures and key risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group
Relations with  
shareholders
2 Consideration of matters relating to the 2014 AGM
2 Consideration of feedback from investors received following 
release of results or during routine meetings with 
Board members
1
 Standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
2
 Item tabled on a periodic basis.
Information and support
The Board is provided with regular and timely 
information on the financial and operational 
performance of the businesses within the Group, 
together with reports on health and safety, 
strategic and risk management matters and 
other relevant issues.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Board 
and each of its committees. Prior to each Board or 
committee meeting, the Company Secretary ensures 
that the papers are made available to the directors 
in sufficient time in advance of the meeting. These 
papers are made available on a secure electronic 
portal, enabling information to be provided in a timely 
and secure manner.
All directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and the directors are 
also able to seek independent professional advice, 
if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
Induction and training
Directors are provided with a comprehensive 
information pack on joining the Company and 
are advised of their legal and other duties and 
obligations as a director of a listed company. In 
addition, all new directors receive an induction on 
their appointment, covering such matters as the 
operational activities of the Group, the role of 
the Board and the Company’s corporate 
governance procedures. 
Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board with effect from 
1 September 2014. Kirsty's induction included:
• A briefing on the responsibilities of a director 
of a listed company;
• A briefing on Kier’s culture, strategy, policies 
and processes;
• Briefings from senior management and members 
of the business;
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70 • Briefings from external advisers, including the 
auditor, the corporate brokers and the financial 
PR advisers; and
• Site visits to certain of the Group's projects.
The four other directors who joined the Board during 
the course of the year have also received similar 
inductions, tailored to reflect the fact that they were 
appointed as executive directors and were either 
internal promotions or had previous executive 
experience of working within a contracting business.
Directors are encouraged to update their knowledge 
and skills as they consider appropriate and training 
is available upon request via the Company Secretary. 
The Board is also briefed by the Company’s external 
advisers, where appropriate, on changes to legislation, 
regulation or market practice, as well as receiving 
briefings from representatives of the business units 
and the functions throughout the year.
“ K i e r ’ s i n d u c t i o n 
programme gave me a 
full understanding of the 
role and responsibilities 
of a non-executive director. 
The programme was 
comprehensive and 
tailored to suit my need 
to understand the Group’s 
operations, business and 
governance structure.” 
 Kirsty Bashforth
Performance evaluation
In the 2014 annual report, we identified the Board’s priorities for 2015, following the 2014 performance 
evaluation. The Board has made good progress against each of these priorities, as summarised below:
2014 feedback Progress
Focus on senior management 
succession planning
• Appointment of three internal promotions to the Board in 
March 2015
• Nomination Committee discussions relating to the potential 
future composition of the Board
Set aside sufficient time for strategy • Appointment of Claudio Veritiero to the Board, as Group Strategy 
and Corporate Development Director
• Updates on progress against Vision 2020 at each Board meeting
Enhance the quality of information 
provided to the Board
• Significant progress on improving the quality of the 
Board papers, as confirmed by the 2015 evaluation
• Establishment of Board reference documents portal
Review schedule of Board and Board 
committee meetings to enable the 
Board to develop its knowledge of 
the business
• During the course of the year, the schedule was reviewed and 
discussed in detail and a number of site visits undertaken 
(both in the UK and overseas)
• Members of senior management were invited to attend 
Board or Board committee meetings to provide briefings 
on specific matters
Strengthen the resources available 
to support the Board
• The company secretariat function was reviewed and 
strengthened during the year
• The new Group HR Director was appointed to provide support 
to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees
In keeping with the Code, the Board typically 
undertakes an external performance evaluation every 
three years, with internal evaluations in the intervening 
years. The most recent external evaluation was 
carried out in 2014; accordingly, the 2015 evaluation 
was conducted using internal resources.
The 2015 evaluation was led by the Chairman, with 
the assistance of the Company Secretary, and was 
conducted using a questionnaire covering the 
operation and performance of the Board, its 
committees and individual directors. Each director 
was asked to complete and return the questionnaire 
to the Company Secretary who, in turn, summarised 
the feedback in a report for discussion by the Board. 
A summary of the matters covered by the 
questionnaire is as follows:
Risk
• Assessment of risk management approach
• Effectiveness of the RMAC.
Relationship management
• Effectiveness of communications with principal 
stakeholders
• Appropriateness of reaction to events (positive 
or negative) 
• Assessment of quality of communication 
channels between the Board and senior 
management.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
71
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Board culture
• Board culture, dynamics and conduct
• Quality of debate and decision-making
• Assessment of the opportunity and ability 
to contribute, individually and collectively.
Board composition
• Board size, composition, skills and experience
• Effectiveness of succession planning
• Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman/Chief Executive
• Assessment of the Chairman’s leadership style
• Effectiveness of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive’s working relationship.
Administration
• Quality of information and the timeliness 
of papers
• Quality of company secretariat support
• Induction on appointment and availability 
of training.
Meetings
• Schedule of Board and Board committee 
meetings
• Appropriateness of the Board agenda and 
time allocation
• Constructive use of the AGM.
So as to be able to conduct a meaningful evaluation 
of the performance of the Board in light of the 
changes to the executive director composition which 
took place in January and March 2015, it was decided 
that the process would begin towards the end of the 
financial year. At the date of this annual report, the 
‘action plan’ arising from the feedback remains under 
discussion by the Board. However, a summary of the 
principal areas of feedback from the 2015 evaluation, 
on which the action plan will be based, is as follows: 
Strengths
• Improved focus on developing, discussing and 
implementing strategy, as demonstrated by the 
appointment of the Group Strategy and Corporate 
Development Director to the Board
• Strong chairmanship and robust performance of 
the Board with respect to the Mouchel acquisition
• Effective implementation of the succession plan 
through the appointment of three internal 
candidates to the Board in March 2015
• Effective understanding of the views of major 
shareholders.
Areas of focus for 2016
• Continuing the focus on developing and 
implementing strategy
• The need to appoint a non-executive director with 
contracting experience and recent experience as 
an executive director on a listed company’s board 
of directors. Justin Atkinson has, subsequently, 
been appointed to the Board with effect from 
1 October 2015
• The continued development of the new directors 
as Board members, rather than as senior 
members of management below the Board
• The continued focus on succession planning, the 
operation of the Nomination Committee and the 
composition of the Board
• The need to continue to review the administration 
of the Board and its committees to enable 
effective decision-making.
Accountability
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board is committed to presenting a fair, balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
position and prospects in its communications with 
shareholders. The Board has delegated responsibility 
for ensuring that this annual report is fair, balanced 
and understandable to the RMAC; details of the steps 
taken by the RMAC, and the business, to do so are 
set out in the Risk Management and Audit Committee 
Report on pages 76 to 81 (inclusive). Following 
completion of the review process, the Board is of the 
opinion that the annual report is a fair and balanced 
representation of the Group’s performance during the 
2015 financial year and provides the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance over the period, together with its 
business model and strategy.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group’s systems 
of risk management and internal control. It is also 
responsible for determining the nature and extent 
of the significant risks that it is prepared to accept 
in achieving the Group’s strategic objectives. The 
principal risks and uncertainties associated with 
the Group are summarised on pages 33 to 37 
(inclusive). 
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control, including those established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risk and to provide 
assurance, to the RMAC so that these matters can 
receive particular focus and attention but, in so 
doing, the RMAC acts on behalf of the Board and its 
activities remain the responsibility of the Board. 
Further details of the Group’s internal control and 
risk management systems, including those relating 
to the financial reporting process, are set out in the 
Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on 
pages 76 to 81 (inclusive).
Corporate governance
Leadership, effectiveness
and accountability continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72 Relations with shareholders
Members of the Board welcome the opportunity to engage with shareholders 
and to understand their views on matters of importance to them – for example, 
strategy, governance, remuneration and sustainability. 
The Chairman of the Board meets regularly with individual shareholders to obtain 
their views on a variety of matters (including governance and strategy), as does 
the chair of the Remuneration Committee in relation to remuneration matters.
During the course of the year, the Company engaged with a range of 
stakeholders (including shareholders) in relation to its corporate responsibility 
(‘CR’) programme. It also liaised with a number of shareholders in relation to 
environmental, social and governance issues, in particular obtaining their views 
on its CR strategy and reporting, to ensure that the Group’s priorities are aligned 
with those of its key stakeholders. Further information can be found on pages 28 
to 31 (inclusive).
The Company also regularly communicates to and meets investors, investment 
analysts and brokers, delivering detailed presentations when it releases its 
annual and interim results and, where appropriate, its interim management 
statements. These assist the Board to understand the views of key stakeholders 
about the Group’s performance and its strategic objectives. 
During the course of the year, we held a capital markets day to announce Vision 
2020 and there was also significant engagement with shareholders with respect 
to the acquisition of Mouchel and its associated rights issue. 
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate directly with 
shareholders.
All members of the Board attend the Company’s AGMs and shareholders are 
invited to attend, ask questions and meet directors prior to, and after, the formal 
proceedings. The chairs of the Board committees are present at the meeting to 
answer questions on the work of their committees. 
The results of the voting at the 2014 AGM were: 
For Against
Resolution
Percentage
of votes
cast
1
Percentage
of votes
cast
1 Receive annual report and accounts 99.91 0.09
2 Directors’ remuneration policy 98.87 1.13
3 Remuneration report 88.52 11.48
4 Declare final dividend 99.99 0.01
5–11 Appointment of directors 88.66–99.63 11.34–0.37
12 Appointment of auditor 98.61 1.39
13 Auditor’s remuneration 92.79 7.21
14 Authority to allot shares 99.18 0.82
15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 99.77 0.23
16 Meetings on 14 days’ notice 95.93 4.07
1
 Includes those votes for which discretion was given to the Chairman.
Meetings with 
investors
In July 2014, we held a capital markets 
day and announced Vision 2020 for the 
first time. The presentation provided 
investors and analysts with the 
opportunity to meet senior members of 
management below the Board, each of 
whom delivered a presentation about 
their respective businesses.
Also during the course of the year, 
members of senior management engaged 
with shareholders and prospective 
shareholders in relation to the acquisition 
of Mouchel and the associated rights 
issue. Whilst such engagement primarily 
focused on the merits of the acquisition, 
it also provided senior management with 
an opportunity to discuss shareholders’ 
views in general about the Group’s 
performance and prospects.
Corporate governance
Relations with shareholders
Details of the Company’s shareholders by type, 
geography and concentration at 30 June 2015 
are as follows:
Shareholders by type (%)
Institutional
Private
 32.6%
 67.4%
Shareholders by geography (%)
0.7%
 4.4%
 4.9%
 90.0%
UK
North America
Europe
Rest of World
Shareholders by concentration (%)
Percentage of issued share capital held by:
 82.3%
 65.6%
 37.9%
Top 10 shareholders
Top 30 shareholders
Top 100 shareholders
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
73
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Nomination Committee Report
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee 
Report for 2015.
This report provides a summary of the Committee’s 
work during 2015. As you will be aware, there have 
been a number of changes to the Board during the 
course of the year and, as a result, the Committee 
has been extremely active.
I will be available to answer any questions about the 
work of the Committee at the AGM on 12 November 
2015. There will also be an opportunity to meet the 
members of the Board who have been appointed 
during the course of the year. 
Role
The role of the Committee includes:
• Regularly reviewing the structure, size and 
composition (including the skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity) of the Board and 
making recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any changes;
• Giving full consideration to succession planning 
for the Board and other senior executives, taking 
into account the challenges and opportunities 
facing the Group and the skills and expertise 
needed on the Board in the future;
• Being responsible for identifying and nominating 
for the approval of the Board any candidates to 
fill Board vacancies; and
• Before any appointments made by the Board, 
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity on the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committee 
can be viewed on the Company’s website  
at http://www.kier.co.uk/corporategovernance.
Composition and meeting attendance
The members of the Committee are:
• Phil White (Chair)
• Richard Bailey
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
• Nick Winser
At the invitation of the Committee, any other 
director or other person may attend meetings of 
the Committee. The secretary of the Committee 
is the Company Secretary.
Details of attendance at Committee meetings during 
the 2015 financial year are set out on page 69. 
Principal activities – 2015
A summary of the Committee’s principal activities in 
the 2015 financial year is as follows:
Review of Board composition
During the year, we reviewed the Board’s 
composition to ensure that it had the correct balance 
of skills, experience and independence in light of the 
Phil White  
Chair
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74 Group’s plans for future growth. We concluded that 
the Board required greater representation from 
operational management to support the continued 
growth of the underlying business.
We therefore decided that, so as to strenghten the 
link between the operations and the Board, Nigel 
Brook would be appointed to the Board as Executive 
Director – Construction and Infrastructure Services, 
along with Nigel Turner as Executive Director – 
Developments and Property Services. In addition, 
and so as to assist the Board to continue to develop 
and implement its strategy, we appointed Claudio 
Veritiero to the Board as the Group Strategy and 
Corporate Development Director.
As a result of these changes, it was agreed that the 
former Chief Operating Officer, Steve Bowcott, would 
stand down from the Board with effect from 27 April 
2015. I would like to thank Steve for his significant 
contribution to both the business and the Board.
New non-executive director
As a result of the changes to the executive director 
representation on the Board, we decided that it 
would be appropriate to appoint an additional 
non-executive director, not only to comply with the 
requirements of the Code with respect to the balance 
and independence of the Board but also to ensure 
that the Board, as a whole, has an appropriate range 
of skills, experience and knowledge to lead the 
Group in the next stage of its growth.
As a committee, we concluded that the candidates 
should have an in-depth knowledge of either the 
construction or services sectors, should have recent 
and relevant experience as an executive director of a 
listed company and should be familiar with overseas 
businesses. We therefore engaged Russell Reynolds 
Associates (‘Russell Reynolds’) to assist the 
Committee to identify potential candidates. A role 
profile was agreed with Russell Reynolds, which then 
produced a ‘long list’ of candidates and, following 
discussions with the Company, a ‘short list’. 
Interviews were held with members of the short list, 
before Justin Atkinson, formerly the chief executive 
of Keller Group plc, was identified as the preferred 
candidate by the Committee. The Committee is 
satisfied that Russell Reynolds, in providing its 
services to the Committee, did not have any 
connections with the Company.
Each member of the Board and the Company 
Secretary then met Justin to further assess his skills 
and experience for the role. Justin also took the 
opportunity to conduct thorough due diligence on 
the role and the Company, including meeting a 
number of our advisers. The process concluded 
with a formal recommendation from the Committee 
to the Board and, on 30 July 2015, we were 
delighted to announce Justin’s appointment 
(effective 1 October 2015). 
New director inductions
As disclosed in the 2014 annual report, Kirsty 
Bashforth joined the Board with effect from 
1 September 2014. During the course of the 
financial year, the Committee successfully 
oversaw the completion of Kirsty’s induction. 
The Committee has also overseen the induction 
of each of the four executive directors who were 
appointed during the year and will work with 
Justin Atkinson to ensure that he also receives 
a full, formal and tailored induction.
Further details of our Board inductions are set out 
on pages 70 and 71.
Succession planning
As a committee, we are keen to ensure that a strong 
pipeline of future senior management has been 
identified, from which future Board appointments 
may be made. In particular, our focus will be on 
ensuring that we have the right mix of skills and 
experience so that the Board can lead a group which 
has changed significantly since the acquisitions of 
May Gurney and Mouchel whilst also overseeing the 
delivery of Vision 2020. In particular, we will be 
challenging management to ensure that, immediately 
below the Board, there is a robust pipeline of 
potential future Board members.
During the course of the year, the Committee 
discussed the Group’s succession plan for senior 
management. Each of the three individuals appointed 
in March 2015 had previously been included on the 
succession plan and we were, therefore, delighted to 
recommend their appointments to the Board. We 
look forward to working with the newly-appointed 
Group HR Director to continue to ensure strong 
succession planning.
We recognise that diversity is an important element 
of succession planning. We also recognise that 
diversity at Board level and across the Group, 
including with respect to gender, is critical to our 
continued success. Although we continue to 
welcome the provisions of the Code which require 
the consideration of diversity at Board level, we do 
not consider that the setting of targets is necessarily 
in the best interests of the Group and, instead, 
prefer to consider all aspects of diversity (including 
gender) when assessing the composition of the 
Board and any future appointments.
 
Phil White
Chair of the Nomination Committee
16 September 2015 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
75
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Risk Management and 
Audit Committee Report which summarises the work 
of the Committee during the 2015 financial year. 
I will be available at the AGM on 12 November 2015 
to answer any questions you may have about the 
Committee’s work and the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control.
During the year, the Committee has supported the 
Board in maintaining sound financial reporting, risk 
management and internal control procedures. 
Further details of the Committee’s role are 
summarised under ‘Role’ below.
I have regular meetings with the Group’s external and 
internal auditors, the Finance Director, the Group 
Financial Controller and the Head of Group Risk and 
Assurance to discuss matters which are relevant to 
the Committee’s work. To assist us in understanding 
the business and the risks associated with it, I and 
other members of the Committee visited a number 
of the Group’s sites during the year and met members 
of management below the Board to discuss matters 
relevant to the Committee. These visits and meetings, 
together with the reports we receive throughout 
the year, supported the effective operation of 
the Committee.
To achieve effective compliance with regulatory 
requirements, the Committee’s terms of reference 
are reviewed annually. The terms of reference were 
reviewed at the June 2015 Committee meeting and 
were updated to reflect the requirements introduced 
by the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’), which became 
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 October 2014 and will, therefore, apply to Kier’s 
2016 financial year.
The principal changes to the Code extended the 
Board’s responsibilities to confirm that it has 
undertaken a robust assessment of the principal 
risks associated with the Group’s business model, 
future performance, solvency and liquidity; to provide 
a statement of the longer-term prospects and 
viability of the Group; and to monitor the Company’s 
risk management and internal control systems on 
a continuing basis. I believe that the Committee is 
properly prepared to support the Board in relation 
to these additional requirements during the 2016 
financial year and will work with its external advisers 
and management in order to do so.
Role
The primary elements of the Committee’s role are to:
• Monitor the Group’s financial reporting 
procedures and the effectiveness of the 
external audit;
• Examine the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and challenge significant financial 
reporting and other judgements in relation to the 
financial statements;
Corporate governance
Risk Management and  
Audit Committee Report
Richard Bailey  
Chair
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76 • Review the adequacy and effectiveness of 
the Group’s systems of internal control and 
risk management;
• Review the adequacy of the Group’s 
arrangements for its employees and contractors 
to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 
misdemeanours, known as ‘whistle-blowing’;
•  Review the Group’s procedures for 
detecting fraud;
• Appraise the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function, agreeing the topics to be 
addressed each year and reviewing the results 
of its work; and
• Test the independence and objectivity of 
the external auditor (in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code) and approve any non-
audit services provided by the external auditor.
The terms of reference for the Committee 
can be viewed on the Company’s website at  
http://www.kier.co.uk/corporategovernance.
Composition and meeting attendance
The members of the Committee are:
• Richard Bailey (chair)
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
• Nick Winser
I am a chartered accountant and a partner in 
Rothschild, the investment bank. In light of my 
significant experience from advising companies over 
35 years, I am considered by the Board to have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met formally five times during the 
2015 financial year. Each of the members of the 
Committee attended those meetings. The following 
were also in attendance:
• The Finance Director, the Group Financial 
Controller and the Head of Group Risk and 
Assurance (which includes the internal 
audit function);
• The other executive directors, when required to do 
so to provide information about specific matters;
• Representatives from PwC for agenda items 
relating to the 2015 external audit or internal 
audit matters (prior to its appointment as the 
external auditor at the 2014 AGM); and
• Representatives from KPMG for agenda items 
relating to internal audit matters or the 2014 
external audit (prior to PwC’s appointment as the 
external auditor).
The secretary of the Committee is the Company 
Secretary. Details of attendance at Committee 
meetings during the 2015 financial year are set 
out on page 69.
Principal activities in the 2015 financial year
The following matters were considered during 
the Committee meetings which took place during 
the year:
Sept Dec Feb Mar June
Financial reporting
Full-year results and 
announcements • •
Half-year results and 
announcements •
Going concern • •
Dividend • •
External audit
General update • • •
Management 
representation letter • •
Evaluation of external 
auditor’s effectiveness •
Recommendation 
of appointment •
Non-audit fees • • • • •
External audit plan •
Internal audit
General update • • • • •
Evaluation of internal 
auditor’s effectiveness
1
•
Approval of internal 
audit plan •
Other
Risk management 
(including ‘whistle-blowing’) • • • •
Compliance with corporate 
governance requirements 
(including ‘fair, balanced 
and understandable’ 
requirement) • • • •
Review of terms 
of reference •
ERP programme 
implementation • •
1
 The Committee discussed the process for assessing the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function at the December 
2014 meeting. The Committee will review KPMG’s 
effectiveness during the 2016 financial year. See ‘Internal 
audit’ on pages 78 and 79.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
risk management and internal control systems. The 
Board is also responsible for determining the nature 
and extent of the risks that it is prepared to take.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
77
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Risk Management and  
Audit Committee Report continued
The Head of Group Risk and Assurance reports 
to the Committee on strategic risk issues and 
has oversight of the Group’s risk management 
procedures. Management is responsible for the 
identification and evaluation of the risks that apply 
to the Group’s business and operations, together 
with the design and implementation of controls 
which are designed to manage those risks. 
The management of the Group’s operations includes 
a sound assessment of risk. Risk registers are 
prepared at business unit, divisional and Group level. 
Those registers identify internal and external factors 
and risks, including those relating to contract 
delivery, tender pricing, the Group’s IT systems 
and the Group’s funding requirements. These risks, 
and the controls designed to mitigate them, are 
continuously monitored. A report of the principal 
risks and an assessment of those controls, based 
on the consolidation of the Group’s risk registers, 
is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis. 
Please see page 32 for further information on how 
the Group identifies and manages risk.
During the year, the Committee increased the 
strength of the risk assessment process and the 
level of independent review and challenge to it. For 
example, subject matter experts have been assigned 
to the identified principal risks and are responsible 
for providing support and challenge to the business 
in assessing and managing them.
The Group’s management of risk is designed to 
mitigate, but cannot completely eliminate, the risks 
faced by the Group. Examples of the principal aspects 
of the Group’s risk management framework include:
• The Risk Review Committee, which reviews 
risks arising during tenders for new contracts;
• The Investment Committee, which reviews 
risks relating to investment decisions taken 
by the Group;
• The Group’s standing orders that set out 
delegated authorities within which the Group 
operates. These are supplemented by standing 
orders which apply at divisional and business 
unit levels; and
• A number of group-wide committees which ensure 
that key risks are managed appropriately. These 
include the Safety, Health and Environment 
Committee and committees which focus on the 
management of IT risks relating to the Group. 
To reinforce this structure, the Group has a ‘whistle-
blowing’ arrangement which enables employees 
to raise concerns, in confidence, over possible 
misdemeanours. The Committee considers 
the arrangement to be appropriate and continues 
to monitor its effectiveness.
The Code and the Committee’s terms of reference 
require the Committee, at least annually, to conduct 
a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems on behalf 
of the Board. The Committee reviewed the output from 
the quarterly risk management process, the annual 
control self-assessment process and a number of 
internal audit reviews carried out by KPMG across the 
Group’s operations. These reviews confirmed that, in 
general, the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems are effective, and support the 
production of appropriate financial information, but also 
identified a number of areas in which more efficient 
systems are required to reflect the Group’s recent 
growth and to support the delivery of Vision 2020. 
Those areas principally relate to the need for the 
consistent application of control processes and 
systems and the effective centralisation of certain 
back-office functions. During the 2016 financial year, 
the Committee will oversee management’s response 
to the recommendations made by KPMG in its 
internal audit reviews.
Internal control and risk management systems – 
financial reporting process
The Group has clear policies and procedures (for 
example, those contained in the Group Finance 
Manual) to ensure the conformity, reliability and 
accuracy of financial reporting, including the 
process for preparing the Group’s interim and 
annual financial statements.
The Group recruits suitably qualified and experienced 
finance professionals who have responsibility for the 
financial reporting process. Duties are segregated, 
with clear lines of accountability and delegation of 
authority. The Group’s financial reporting policies and 
procedures cover financial planning and reporting, 
preparation of financial information and the 
monitoring and control of capital expenditure. The 
Group’s financial statements review process includes 
reviews at business unit, divisional and Group levels. 
Details of the Committee’s involvement in the 
external audit process are set out below. When 
fulfilling its obligation to review the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, the Committee 
receives support from the Group’s other functions, 
including the company secretariat, legal, 
compliance and internal audit functions, and 
other Board committees.
Internal audit
Change of internal auditor
Prior to its appointment as external auditor with 
effect from the 2014 AGM, PwC resigned as internal 
auditor. At the conclusion of a tender process, the 
Committee recommended the appointment of KPMG 
as the Group’s new internal auditor. The Committee 
oversaw the transition from PwC to KPMG during the 
2015 financial year. 
Internal audits – 2015 financial year
During the 2015 financial year, the Committee 
monitored the implementation and progress of 
the 2015 internal audit plan which was reviewed 
and approved by the Committee at its June 2014 
meeting. Upon its appointment, KPMG continued 
with this programme of internal audits. Results 
from each completed audit were discussed by the 
Committee, together with the management actions 
taken with respect to those audits.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78 Internal auditor effectiveness
The Code and the Committee’s terms of reference 
require the Committee to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit 
function. The Committee believes that, in order for 
it to assess KPMG’s effectiveness, KPMG needs 
to have completed a sufficient number of internal 
audits. Therefore, the Committee intends to conduct 
a formal assessment of KPMG’s performance in the 
2016 financial year and will provide details of the 
results of this assessment in the 2016 annual report. 
The Committee is satisfied that the transition to 
KPMG was completed efficiently and effectively and 
that the internal audit function fulfilled its objectives 
for the year.
External audit
The Committee is responsible for:
• Monitoring the effectiveness of the external 
audit process;
• Making recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment 
and removal of the external auditor;
• Approving the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor;
• Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity; and
• Developing and implementing a policy on 
the engagement of the external auditor to 
supply non-audit services.
External auditor appointment process
Following a comprehensive tender process, PwC 
was appointed as the Group’s external auditor for 
the 2015 financial year at the 2014 AGM.
During the year, the Committee oversaw the 
handover from KPMG and ensured that PwC 
familiarised itself with the Group. In order to do 
so, PwC met key employees and members of 
management, including a number of individuals 
from outside of the finance function, on formal 
and informal occasions, and visited a number of 
the Group’s sites.
External auditor effectiveness
The Committee is pleased with the insights provided 
by the new audit team and its performance to date. 
The Committee has begun the process of formally 
assessing PwC’s effectiveness by asking members 
of the Committee, the executive directors and 
individuals who have worked with PwC during the 
2015 financial year to provide their feedback. This 
process will conclude after the completion of the 
2015 audit and further details will be included in 
the 2016 annual report. 
A similar review was conducted by the Committee 
with respect to the outgoing auditor, KPMG, where 
feedback was sought from key individuals as to 
KPMG’s performance. No material issues were 
raised during the assessment. The Committee 
would like to thank KPMG for many years of 
excellent service.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in 
office and the Committee has recommended PwC’s 
re-appointment to the Board which will, in turn, 
propose a resolution to this effect at the 2015 AGM.
External auditor independence and non-audit services
During the 2015 financial year, PwC provided 
non-audit services to the Group. The Committee 
monitors the level and scope of non-audit work 
awarded to PwC to ensure that any services provided 
are within relevant ethical guidance and that the 
associated fees are not of a level that would affect 
PwC’s independence and objectivity. All fees relating 
to the provision of non-audit fees by PwC must be 
referred to and agreed by the Committee.
The fees paid to PwC during the 2015 financial year 
in respect of non-audit services were £496,000, 
as follows:
Type of  
services
Specific  
services
Amount 
(£000)
Non-audit 
assurance
Project assurance in 
relation to ERP project 25
Mersey Gateway 
project joint venture 
governance review 30
Sustainability 
reporting assurance 50
Interim review – 
2015 financial year 35
Tax advice  
and 
compliance
Flexible subsistence 
advice and tax 
compliance services 50
Tax compliance and 
consultancy services 
in Trinidad 6
Transaction 
advice
Reporting accountant’s 
work for Mouchel, carried 
out at the request of Kier 300
Total 496
The total audit fees payable by the Group with 
respect to the 2015 financial year were £1,240,000, 
of which £820,000 related to the audit of Kier’s 
2015 financial statements and £420,000 related to 
the audit of Mouchel’s 2015 financial statements, 
Mouchel’s previous accounting reference date having 
been changed from 30 September to 30 June upon 
completion of its acquisition by Kier. The total 
non-audit fees during the 2015 financial year 
represented approximately 40% of the audit fees 
payable in respect of the year. During the 2014 
financial year, £855,000 was paid to the external 
auditor, KPMG, in relation to non-audit fees, 
representing approximately 101% of the audit fees 
for that year. All figures exclude VAT.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
79
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Risk Management and  
Audit Committee Report continued
PwC has strict requirements on rotation and the lead 
audit partner is required to change after five years 
and other senior team members are required 
to change after seven years. PwC also provides 
the Committee with information on how it manages 
its independence and objectivity.
As part of the 2015 audit process, PwC confirmed 
that it was independent within the meaning of 
applicable regulatory and professional requirements. 
Taking this into account, and having considered the 
steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, 
the Committee concluded that PwC’s independence 
as external auditor had not been compromised 
notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees incurred 
during the year.
Financial statements – 2015
The 2015 audit
The scope of the 2015 audit was discussed and 
approved by the Committee at its meeting in June 
2015. The Committee reviewed and challenged 
the proposed plan and considered the levels of 
materiality and resources proposed by PwC to ensure 
that they met the Group’s requirements. The audit 
fee was also discussed with the Committee prior to 
its approval.
During the 2015 audit, I met the lead audit partner 
from PwC to discuss the audit process and its 
findings. At its September 2015 meeting, the 
Committee reviewed PwC’s findings and discussed 
the significant issues that arose during the audit. 
In particular, the Committee and PwC discussed 
the key accounting and audit judgements and 
reviewed any unadjusted audit differences which 
had been identified.
Significant issues and other accounting judgements
The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the appropriateness of management’s judgements, 
assumptions and estimates in preparing the financial 
statements. Drawing on its own experience, and 
after discussions with management and PwC, the 
Committee determined that the significant issues 
and other accounting judgements relating to the 
2015 financial statements were as follows:
Significant issue 
and other 
accounting 
judgement
How the issue or accounting judgement was considered
Acquisition accounting 
for Mouchel
The Group acquired Mouchel on 8 June 2015. Accounting for the acquisition required an assessment of 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, including the valuation of any separately identifiable 
intangible assets and goodwill. 
During due diligence relating to the acquisition, the Company identified a number of exposures in Mouchel 
which were not previously recognised in its balance sheet. Management worked with its external advisers 
on the transaction to agree the amount of the fair value adjustment, which was also considered by the 
Board when considering the acquisition. The Committee is satisfied that the fair value adjustment which 
has been included in the 2015 financial statement reflects management’s best estimate of the exposures 
which were identified.
The due diligence exercise also focused on contract assumptions and judgements, including those relating 
to profitability, claims and cash flow. The Committee is satisfied that extensive due diligence, using both 
internal and external resources, was conducted with respect to assessing the value of Mouchel’s 
customer contracts.
Valuation of land 
and properties
The Group holds inventory within the Residential division, primarily comprising land held for residential 
development for which construction has not started and work-in-progress. The carrying value of the 
inventory is based on the Group’s current forecast estimate of the sales prices and building costs.
One of the key elements of the system of risk management and internal control within the Residential 
division is the development appraisals prepared by management, using a number of internal and external 
reference points. At its meeting in June 2015, the Committee identified the valuation of land and properties 
as a key area of judgement and, therefore, agreed that PwC would challenge the principal assumptions 
underlying management’s appraisals during the 2015 audit. PwC’s conclusion is set out in the independent 
auditor’s report: please see page 113.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80 Significant issue 
and other 
accounting 
judgement
How the issue or accounting judgement was considered
Accounting for long-
term contracts
The Group has significant long-term contracts in the Construction and Services divisions. Profit is 
recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract. The assessment of profit requires the 
exercise of judgement when preparing estimates of the forecast costs and revenues of a contract. A 
number of factors are relevant to this assessment, including in particular the expected recovery of costs.
During the year, the Board reviewed and considered management’s latest assessment of the forecast costs 
and revenues on certain significant long-term contracts. The Committee identified accounting for long-term 
contracts as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2015 audit and discussed management’s 
assessment of the profit on such contracts with PwC when considering the interim and year-end 
financial statements.
At its meeting in March 2015, the Committee received a presentation from the Group Commercial Director 
about the Group’s controls relating to contract administration and management. These controls are 
designed to assist the Group to assess the performance of the Group’s contracts.
Accounting for 
adjustments 
to underlying profit
Management has provided a separate disclosure of ‘non-underlying’ items, in addition to presenting 
the underlying results of the Group. Detals of those items are set out in note 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
The non-underlying items and their disclosure have been discussed at Board meetings during the 2015 
financial year. The classification of items as ‘non-underlying’ relates to the application of the Group’s 
accounting policies, IFRS and recent pronouncements by the Financial Reporting Council on the matter. 
The Committee reviewed and considered these items with management in the context of its review of the 
2015 financial statements. The Committee also reviewed the work of PwC in this area. 
Assessment of carrying 
value of goodwill
The majority of the Group’s goodwill relates to the acquisitions of Mouchel and May Gurney. 
One of the principal areas of focus of both the Board and the Committee during the 2015 financial year 
was the performance of the Group, which was of particular relevance to the audit procedures conducted by 
PwC with respect to the value of goodwill. PwC’s conclusion is set out in the independent auditor’s report: 
please see page 115.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board delegated to the Committee the 
responsibility for ensuring that the information 
presented in this annual report, when taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
contains the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
The principal aspects of the review process 
implemented by the Committee and management 
are summarised as follows:
• Setting up a committee of senior individuals 
within the Group to draft the annual report, with 
each of these individuals having responsibility 
for the production of certain sections of 
the document;
• Holding regular meetings of this committee to 
discuss and agree significant disclosure items;
• The committee members retaining copies of 
supporting materials and confirming that, in their 
opinion, the sections drafted by them were ‘fair, 
balanced and understandable’;
• Arranging for PwC and FutureValue (a corporate 
reporting consultancy) to review the annual report 
in light of the requirement and for Mercer, the 
Company’s remuneration consultants, to review 
the Remuneration Report;
• Circulating drafts of the annual report to the 
Committee and the Board to ensure that the 
document reflected the directors’ views of the 
material issues facing the Group; and
• Discussing material disclosure items at a meeting 
of the Committee.
Richard Bailey 
Chair of the Risk Management and 
Audit Committee
16 September 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
81
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Safety, Health and Environment 
Committee Report
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee Report for 2015.
The health and safety of all those who visit and work 
at the Group’s sites, together with the protection of 
the environment, have been and will remain key 
priorities for Kier. It is therefore important that the 
Group has a well-established and robust governance 
structure, led by the Committee, to ensure that 
safety, health and environment (‘SHE’) matters are 
appropriately managed by the Group. 
Having recently acquired Mouchel, the Group now 
operates on several hundred sites at any one time, 
both throughout the UK and internationally, and 
employs over 24,000 staff. The projects undertaken 
by the Group are not only complex, but inherently 
dangerous. Although I am pleased to be able to 
report, overall, a strong SHE performance in 2015, 
the fatal road traffic accidents which occurred during 
the year, in particular, demonstrate the need to seek 
continuous improvement in the management of 
SHE risks in the workplace.
This report provides a summary of the Committee’s 
activities during 2015. I will be available to answer 
any questions about the work of the Committee at 
the AGM on 12 November 2015.
Role
The role of the Committee includes:
• Assisting the Board to review the Group’s strategy 
with respect to SHE matters;
• Encouraging management accountability with 
respect to managing the Group’s SHE risks;
• Reviewing and, as necessary, approving material 
group-wide SHE initiatives, policies and 
procedures;
• Receiving reports on any major health and safety 
or environmental incidents; and
• Reviewing the Group’s exposure to SHE risks 
and monitoring the Group’s performance against 
SHE targets.
The terms of reference for the Committee 
can be viewed on the Company’s website  
at http://www.kier.co.uk/corporategovernance.
Composition and meeting attendance
The members of the Committee are:
• Nick Winser (Chair)
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Amanda Mellor
Nick Winser  
Chair
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82 The executive directors and the Group SHE Director 
are invited to, and expected to attend, meetings, 
unless they are notified to the contrary. The secretary 
of the Committee is the Company Secretary.
Details of attendance at Committee meetings during 
the 2015 financial year are set out on page 69.
Principal activities – 2015
A summary of the Committee’s principal activities in 
the 2015 financial year is as follows:
New Group SHE Director
As a committee, we were delighted with the 
appointment of John Edwards as the new Group 
SHE Director earlier in 2015. Since his appointment, 
John has been undertaking a review of the Group’s 
approach to the management of SHE risks – for 
example, reviewing SHE governance, re-drafting 
documentation and procedures and overseeing an 
assessment of the Group’s culture with respect to 
SHE issues (see below).
SHE strategy
The Committee has closely reviewed management’s 
plans to ensure that the management of SHE issues 
remains a top priority in the context of Vision 2020. 
In particular, we have challenged management to 
ensure that the Group’s SHE strategy remains 
aligned with the Group’s overall corporate strategy 
and that, as the Group continues to grow, its SHE 
culture, policies, procedures and governance 
remain appropriate and able to continue to support 
the business.
Fleet
As a committee, we oversaw management’s 
investigations into the fatal road traffic accidents 
which occurred during the 2015 financial year, 
reviewed the incident reports and challenged 
management to ensure that the learning points from 
the incidents were appropriately communicated 
throughout the Group. Specifically, these incidents 
led to the Committee overseeing a number of 
significant policy changes with respect to driving 
at work – for example, the banning of making or 
receiving telephone calls whilst doing so. 
High-potential incidents
During the course of a year, ‘high-potential’ incidents 
will occur on the Group’s sites. Management has 
well-established processes to ensure that the 
remedial actions to be taken after the reporting of 
any such incidents are closed-out. The Committee 
provided constructive challenge to management to 
ensure this is done in a timely manner. In addition, 
we assisted management to continue to promote the 
benefits of, and encourage, the reporting of such 
incidents and to ensure the effective communication 
of the learning points across the Group.
Regulatory investigations
One of the areas of the Committee’s remit is to 
ensure that management responds appropriately and 
in a timely to manner to investigations conducted by 
regulatory bodies in relation to SHE matters. For 
example, from time to time, the Health and Safety 
Executive (‘the HSE’) and the Environment Authority 
(‘the EA’) will conduct investigations into incidents 
which occur on the Group’s sites. Some of these 
investigations result in court proceedings being 
taken against the Group and, as a committee, we 
work with management to ensure that its approach 
to the conduct of these proceedings is appropriate. 
During the 2015 financial year, the Committee 
oversaw management’s responses to the HSE 
investigation into the fatality which occurred on the 
Crossrail site at the BFK Holborn site in March 2014, 
the proceedings brought against Kier and its joint 
venture partners in Hong Kong as a result of a 
fatality on site in September 2013 and the 
investigations into the road traffic accidents which 
occurred during the 2014 and 2015 financial years. 
We have also overseen management’s response to 
the EA in connection with a water pollution incident 
(December 2013) and a fuel spillage (November 
2014) and discussed with management its strategy 
with respect to the defence of proceedings brought 
against Kier and its joint venture partners in 
Hong Kong which relate to two allegations of 
water contamination.
Behavioural safety self-assessment
One of the most significant activities of 
the Committee in 2015 was to oversee the 
behavioural safety self-assessment which 
management instigated across the Group’s 
operations. Each business was asked to assess 
its ‘cultural maturity’ against a series of questions in 
order to set a benchmark against which to measure 
and continuously improve the Group’s SHE culture 
and ensure that it remains appropriate as the Group 
continues to grow.
The results of this self-assessment will be used 
to develop the policies and procedures to assist 
the Group to develop a fully-integrated SHE 
culture following the acquisition of Mouchel. 
Overseeing management’s development of these 
policies and procedures will be one of the 
Committee’s priorities in 2016.
Nick Winser
Chair of the Safety, Health and 
Environment Committee
16 September 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
83
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Annual statement of the chair of the Remuneration Committee
Dear shareholder, 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
the Remuneration Report for 2015, which provides 
details of the remuneration earned by the directors 
in the 2015 financial year.
Our remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM and no changes 
have been made this year. However, in order to 
ensure transparency and so as to provide context 
for the decisions taken by the Committee during 
the year, the Committee has decided to include a 
summary of the policy in this report. Information 
relating to the implementation of our remuneration 
policy in the 2015 financial year is included in the 
annual report on remuneration. 
Similar to last year, this report is divided into three 
sections: this annual statement, the annual report 
on remuneration on pages 86 to 97 (inclusive) and 
a summary of the directors’ remuneration policy 
on pages 98 to 106 (inclusive). 
Following the 2014 AGM and to ensure alignment of 
executive remuneration at Kier with Vision 2020, the 
Committee undertook a review of its remuneration 
advisers. After an extensive tender process, Mercer 
was appointed to the role.
A summary of the Committee’s principal activities 
during the course of the year is as follows: 
Board changes
Bev Dew was appointed as Finance Director 
with effect from 1 January 2015 and Nigel Brook, 
Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero were appointed 
to the Board with effect from 6 March 2015. The 
Committee considered the remuneration of the new 
Board members against a number of comparators 
and criteria, whilst also ensuring that it was within 
our policy on recruitment or internal promotion. 
The remuneration paid to each of the four new Board 
appointees since their appointment is set out in the 
single figure table on page 86. 
Steve Bowcott, the former Chief Operating Officer, 
stood down from the Board with effect from 27 April 
2015. The terms of Steve’s departure were within 
the policy on payments for loss of office, as set out 
on pages 104 and 105. A summary of the terms 
agreed with Steve is set out on page 90.
Annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive  
Plan – 2015
Following another year of strong performance, the 
executive directors will receive bonuses of 91.9% 
of their respective base salaries. These bonuses 
reflect the Group’s solid revenue growth, increased 
profitability and strong health and safety performance 
over the year, each of which is considered by the 
Board to be a key performance indicator for the Group, 
together with the significant individual contributions 
made by each of the executive directors. Further 
details of the bonus payments in respect of the 2015 
financial year, including the pro rating of payments to 
those directors who joined or left the Board during the 
year, are set out on pages 86 to 88 (inclusive).
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report
Amanda Mellor  
Chair
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84 However, despite underlying EPS growth during the 
2015 financial year and a strong total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) performance over the three-year 
performance period of the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) award granted in September 2012, the award 
will not vest in September 2015. As a committee, we 
believe that the EPS and TSR performance conditions 
which applied to this award remain challenging and 
they will therefore apply to the award which will be 
granted to the executive directors in the 2016 
financial year. Please see page 90 for further details.
Review of base salaries
During the year, the Committee undertook a review of 
the salaries of our executive directors, in conjunction 
with Mercer. This review took into account a number 
of factors, including external benchmarking against 
comparable companies, an assessment of individual 
experience, length of tenure on the Board and the 
salary review applicable across the Group. Following 
this review, the Committee decided that the base 
salary of the Chief Executive would increase by 5% 
from £505,000 to £530,250 with effect from 1 July 
2015, in line with the range of salary increases 
across the Group. The Committee also agreed that, 
in light of their recent appointments to the Board, 
there would be no increases to the base salaries of 
the other executive directors.
Remuneration – 2016
During the financial year, the Committee considered 
the Company’s remuneration framework and 
concluded that the current structure, comprising base 
salary and benefits, a bonus and an LTIP, continued to 
be appropriate for the 2016 financial year.
In 2016, the annual bonus will operate on 
substantially the same basis as in 2015, with 
the maximum opportunity remaining at 100% of 
base salary. The amount attributable to ‘personal 
objectives’ will increase from 10% to 20% and the 
maximum amount payable with respect to profit 
performance will decrease from 55% to 45%. The 
Committee has worked extensively to agree a set of 
personal objectives which relate to the executive 
directors’ core areas of focus, both individual and 
collective, over the 2016 financial year and which are 
designed to support the delivery of Vision 2020. 
These objectives, together with the assessment of 
performance against them, will be set out in the 
2016 annual report. Further details of the 2016 
annual bonus are set out on page 95.
No changes are proposed to the LTIP to be awarded 
in the 2016 financial year, which will continue to 
be based on EPS and relative TSR (in equal 
measure), with a maximum opportunity remaining 
at 150% of base salary. Further details of the 
performance conditions of this LTIP award are set 
out on page 90.
Areas for future consideration
The Committee will continue to review executive 
remuneration at Kier to ensure that it remains 
appropriate to promote the long-term success of the 
Company. The Committee is also aware of the need 
for executive remuneration to remain competitive and 
reflect trends in the market. Following the acquisition 
of Mouchel, and in order to reflect the change in size 
and shape of the Group and to ensure alignment 
with Vision 2020, the Committee is undertaking a 
comprehensive review of the executive remuneration 
framework at Kier. The Committee intends to consult 
with shareholders in the event that any material 
changes are proposed to the current remuneration 
policy as a result of this review, noting that any 
revised policy would be subject to shareholder 
approval at the 2016 AGM.
Compliance statement
This report complies with the Companies Act 2006, 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 and the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and applies 
the main principles relating to remuneration which 
are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(September 2012 edition).
Conclusion
I hope that you will find our report helpful. The 
Committee has sought to ensure full and transparent 
levels of disclosure with respect to executive 
remuneration at Kier and to share with shareholders 
how it seeks to balance various considerations and 
interests in a fair way for the long-term success of 
the Group. Linking pay to the Group’s performance 
and reflecting the views of shareholders is 
fundamental to the remit of the Committee.
As chair of the Committee, I have welcomed the 
opportunity to meet a number of major shareholders 
during the course of the year, to understand their 
views on executive remuneration more broadly and 
also to share with them the Committee’s approach. 
The Committee has found this engagement with 
shareholders beneficial, particularly in light of our 
current review, and will continue to seek to 
incorporate their views when considering executive 
remuneration at Kier.
I will be available to answer any questions at the 
AGM on 12 November 2015.
Amanda Mellor
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
16 September 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
85
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Annual report on remuneration
Introduction
This section of the report sets out the annual report on remuneration for the 2015 financial year.
The following information contained in this section of the report has been audited: the table containing the single total figure of 
remuneration for directors and accompanying notes on this page 86, the pension entitlements set out on page 88, the incentive awards 
made during the year set out on pages 89 and 90, the payments for loss of office set out on page 90, the payments to past directors set 
out on pages 90 and 91 and the statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interests set out on page 91.
Directors’ remuneration for the 2015 financial year
The following table provides details of the directors’ remuneration for the 2015 financial year, together with their remuneration for the 
2014 financial year, in each case before deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions (where relevant):
Salary/fees 
(£000)
Taxable 
benefits
1
 
(£000)
Bonus 
(£000)
LTIP vesting
in year
 (£000)
All-employee 
schemes 
(£000)
Pension
5
 
(£000)
Total 
(£000)
2014/
2015
2013/
2014
2014/
2015
2013/
2014
2014/
2015
2013/
2014
2014/
2015
2
2013/
2014
3
2014/
2015
4
2013/
2014
2014/
2015
2013/
2014
2014/
2015
2013/
2014
Executive directors
Steve Bowcott
6
351 378 13 16 322 257 – 110 1 1 69 76 756 838
Nigel Brook
7
112 – 4 – 80 – – – 1 – 21 – 218 –
Bev Dew
8
188 – 6 – 172 – – – – – 38 – 404 –
Haydn Mursell 505 378 13 13 464 257 – 110 1 1 96 76 1,079 835
Nigel Turner
7
112 – 4 – 80 – – – 1 – 22 – 219 –
Claudio Veritiero
7
112 – 2 – 80 – – – 1 – 21 – 216 –
Non-executive directors
Richard Bailey 66 54 – – – – – – – – – – 66 54
Kirsty Bashforth
9
39 n/a – – – – – – – – – – 39 n/a
Amanda Mellor 56 54 – – – – – – – – – – 56 54
Phil White 173 165 – – – – – – – – – – 173 165
Nick Winser 56 54 – – – – – – – – – – 56 54
Total 1,770 1,083 42 29 1,198 514 – 220 5 2 267 152 3,282 2,000
1
 Comprise private health insurance and a company car or a car allowance.
2
 The award granted on 14 September 2012 will not vest.
3
 The award granted in November 2011 vested as to 32.7% in November 2014, as detailed on page 77 of last year’s annual report. The value is calculated by 
multiplying the number of shares receivable by the relevant director by the closing price of a share in the capital of the Company on 17 November 2014 of 
£14.43. The value of these awards referred to in last year’s annual report was based on the three-month average share price for the period ended 30 June 2014.
4
 The value of the matching shares purchased during the 2015 financial year under the All Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘the AESOP’), using an average share 
price for matching share purchases during the 2015 financial year of £16.08.
5
 Comprises the payment of employer pension contributions and/or a cash allowance.
6 
Steve Bowcott retired from the Board with effect from 27 April 2015 and his employment with the Group terminated on 30 April 2015. The amounts set out under 
'Salary/fees', 'Taxable benefits' and 'Pension' relate to the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015. The amount set out under 'All-employee schemes' relates 
to matching shares bought on behalf of Steve under the AESOP during the 2015 financial year. The amount set out under 'Bonus' has been pro rated for active 
service to 30 April 2015. Payments made to Steve Bowcott during the course of the year with respect to his loss of office and to be made during the 2016 
financial year are not included in the table: please see page 90 under ‘Payments for loss of office’ for further details.
7
 Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero were appointed to the Board with effect from 6 March 2015. The amounts set out under 'Salary/fees’, 'Taxable 
benefits', ‘Bonus’ and 'Pension' relate to the period after their appointments to the Board. The amounts set out under 'All-employee schemes' relate to matching 
shares bought on behalf of the relevant individuals under the AESOP during the 2015 financial year. 
8 
Bev Dew was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015. The face value of matching shares purchased for him under the AESOP during the 2015 
financial year was £145 which is considered ‘de minimis’ for the purposes of the above table.
9 
Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2014.
All figures in the above table have been rounded to the nearest £1,000. Further information relating to the executive directors’ annual 
bonus and pension entitlements for the 2015 financial year are set out below.
Annual bonus – 2015 financial year
Steve Bowcott, Bev Dew and Haydn Mursell were eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary with respect to the 2015 
financial year. Of this, 55% related to certain profit performance targets, 25% related to certain cash performance targets, 10% 
related to health and safety performance targets and 10% related to performance against personal objectives which were approved 
by the Committee.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86 The payments due to Steve Bowcott and Bev Dew will be pro rated to reflect their respective lengths of active service during the 2015 
financial year. The bonus entitlements of Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero, each of whom was appointed to the Board 
during the course of the year, were as described above from the date of their appointments to the Board, with different entitlements 
relating to the period prior to their appointments. Further detail is provided below.
One-third of any annual bonus awarded to the executive directors (including those appointed during the 2015 financial year) will be 
satisfied in Kier Group plc shares and is subject to forfeiture in the circumstances set out in the policy table. A similar approach 
is applied to the annual bonus arrangements for certain members of the senior management team. The Committee believes that part 
satisfaction of the annual bonus in shares strengthens the alignment of the interests of the executive directors, and members of 
senior management, with those of shareholders.
Further details of the executive directors’ bonuses in respect of the 2015 financial year (in each case before deductions for income tax 
and national insurance contributions) are provided in the following table:
Performance level Performance achieved
1
Weighting
Measure/
weighting ‘Threshold’
‘On 
target’ ‘Stretch’ Actual
Steve 
Bowcott
2
Bev
Dew
3
Nigel
Brook
4
Haydn
Mursell
Nigel
Turner
4
Claudio 
Veritiero
4
Financial 80% Profit 
before tax 
(55%)
Target <£83.0m £83.0m £87.0m £85.9m
50.9% 50.9% 50.9% 50.9% 50.9% 50.9%
Pay-out
5
0% 40% 55% 50.9%
Year-end 
cash/net 
debt (25%)
Target £(168.0)m £(153.0)m £(138.0)m £(140.8)m
23.0% 23.0% 23.0% 23.0% 23.0% 23.0%
Pay-out
5
0% 15% 25% 23.0%
Non-financial 20% Health and 
safety 
(10%)
See note 6 below 8% 8% 8% 8% 8% 8%
Personal 
objectives 
(10%)
See below 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10%
Total (%) 91.9% 91.9% 91.9% 91.9% 91.9% 91.9%
Total (amounts in £000) £322 £172 £80 £464 £80 £80
1
 As a percentage of maximum opportunity, being 100% of base salary for the 2015 financial year, subject to pro rating for time spent on the Board during the year 
(as described in the following notes).
2
 The payment to Steve Bowcott has been pro rated to reflect his service to 30 April 2015.
3
 The payment to Bev Dew has been pro rated to reflect his service from 1 January 2015.
4
 The payments to Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero relate to the period after their appointment to the Board. Further information is provided 
immediately following this table.
5
 As a percentage of maximum opportunity. 
6
 The health and safety performance targets related to a reduction in the Group’s AIR from April to June 2015, as compared with the equivalent period in 2014 
(maximum opportunity: 5%) and undertaking an agreed number of health and safety site visits (maximum opportunity: 5%).
All amounts in the above table have been rounded to the nearest £1,000.
In accordance with the Group’s bonus scheme rules, Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero each became entitled to a maximum 
bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary, subject to the same targets as the other executive directors, with effect from 1 April 2015 
(being the first calendar month following their appointments to the Board). Prior to their respective appointments to the Board, Nigel Brook's 
and Nigel Turner's targets related to a combination of Group and business unit performance and Claudio Veritiero's targets related to 
Group performance.
The bonus payments due to these individuals relating to the periods before and after their appointments to the Board are as follows 
(in each case before deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions):
Director
Pre-
appointment
bonus
(£000)
Post-
appointment
bonus
(£000)
Aggregate
2015 bonus
(£000)
Nigel Brook £100 £80 £180
Nigel Turner £163 £80 £243
Claudio Veritiero £135 £80 £215
All amounts in the above table have been rounded to the nearest £1,000.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
87
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 During the 2015 financial year, each of the executive directors had a number of personal objectives which were set against their key 
areas of focus and accountability. The Committee assessed the performance of each executive director against these objectives and 
agreed that they each warranted the payments set out in the above table. 
Examples of these personal objectives are set out in the following table, together with an assessment of performance:
Director Personal objective Assessment of performance
Steve Bowcott • In conjunction with the Chief Executive, 
oversee the refreshing of the safety 
culture across the Group
• Lead significant cross-divisional tenders
• Assisted the Chief Executive to appoint a new Group SHE Director, 
who is undertaking a review of the Group’s approach to managing 
SHE risk
• Successful examples include the Northamptonshire County Council 
and Staffordshire County Council tenders
Nigel Brook • Lead significant tenders within the 
Construction division 
• Restructure the senior management team 
in the Construction division
• Successful examples include the Scape National Minor Works 
framework and the North West Construction Hub framework 
tenders
• New management team put in place following his appointment 
to the Board
Bev Dew • Continue to drive the Group’s focus on 
working capital management 
• As a new Finance Director, establish 
relationships with analysts, investors, 
advisers and lenders
• Reviewed and re-aligned the Group’s internal process for cash 
collection and forecasting, as demonstrated by the Group’s net 
debt position at 30 June 2015
• Positive feedback from investors, analysts and advisers, in 
particular after the 2015 interims roadshows and the Mouchel 
transaction. Revised facilities agreed with the Group’s lenders 
during the year
Haydn Mursell • Provide the Board with clarity on the 
Group’s strategic direction 
• Develop senior management succession 
plans
• Regular updates to the Board as to progress against Vision 2020. 
The Mouchel transaction represents significant progress towards 
the delivery of this strategy
• Three internal appointments to the Board made during the year, 
with succession plans created for the level immediately below 
the Board
Nigel Turner • Continue to develop relationships 
with partners and funders for the 
Developments business
• Establish succession plans in the 
Developments business
• A number of opportunities identified during the year, including those 
with Investec in the Trade City joint venture and Premier Inn 
• New management team put in place following his appointment to 
the Board
Claudio Veritiero • Progress Vision 2020, including 
establishing a framework to monitor 
progress
• Identify acquisition and disposal 
opportunities
• Integral role in the Mouchel transaction. Monthly reports to the 
Board on the progress against Vision 2020 
• A number of additional opportunities identified during the year, 
including the Fleet & Passenger Services disposal announced 
in July 2015
Pension entitlements
The following executive directors participate in the defined contribution section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. All receive a pension 
contribution of 20% of base salary, subject to the annual allowance. The balance is paid as a cash allowance. Cash allowances are 
subject to the usual tax and national insurance deductions which are payable by the executive director and excluded when determining 
annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Payments to the executive directors with respect to the Kier Group Pension Scheme during the 2015 financial year were:
Director
Pension
contribution
Cash 
allowance Total
Steve Bowcott
1
£33,333 £35,203 £68,536
Nigel Brook
2
£13,502 £7,500 £21,002
Bev Dew
3
£20,000 £17,502 £37,502
Haydn Mursell £40,000 £56,219 £96,219
Nigel Turner
2
£14,451 £7,500 £21,951
Claudio Veritiero
2
£13,661 £7,500 £21,161
1
 For the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015.
2
 For the period from 6 March 2015 to 30 June 2015.
3
 For the period from 1 January 2015 to 30 June 2015.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88 Incentive awards made during the year
The following incentive awards were made to each of the executive directors during the 2015 financial year:
Award Basis of award Director Face value
1
Potential 
award for 
threshold 
performance
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
Difference 
between 
exercise 
price and 
face value
Performance 
measures
LTIP
2
150% of base 
salary for the 
year ended  
30 June 2015
Steve  
Bowcott
£219,528 22 October 
2017
Awards are 
based 1/2  
on three-year 
cumulative  
EPS, 1/2 on 
relative TSR 
performance. 
Please see 
below  
for details  
of targets
Haydn  
Mursell
£948,002 25% of face 
value
30 June 2017 n/a
Bev  
Dew
£391,083 8 May 2018
75% of base 
salary for the 
year ended  
30 June 2015
3
Nigel  
Brook
£187,700 
Nigel  
Turner
£236,519 25% of face 
value
30 June 2017 22 October 
2017
n/a
Claudio 
Veritiero
£262,801 
Deferred 
shares
1/3 of the net 
bonus for the 
year ended  
30 June 2014
Steve  
Bowcott
£45,269
n/a n/a 
29 September 
2017 
n/a
Continued 
service 
condition 
(subject to  
the ‘malus’ 
provision 
– please see 
the future 
policy table)
Haydn  
Mursell
£45,269
1/4 of the net 
bonus for the 
year ended  
30 June 2014
3
Nigel  
Brook
£14,574 
Nigel  
Turner
£25,181 n/a n/a 29 September 
2017
n/a
Claudio 
Veritiero
£15,852
AESOP
Matching shares 
purchased in 
accordance  
with the  
AESOP rules
Steve  
Bowcott
£627
Continued 
service 
condition
Nigel 
Brook
£917
Bev  
Dew
£145
Haydn  
Mursell
£756 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Nigel  
Turner
£900
Claudio 
Veritiero
£900
1
 For the LTIP awards, ‘face value’ is calculated using the closing price of a share in the capital of the Company on 21 October 2014 of £15.28 (or, in the case of 
the award to Bev Dew, the closing price of a share in the capital of the Company on 7 May 2015 of £15.85). For the deferred share awards, ‘face value’ is calculated 
using the closing price of a share in the capital of the Company on 26 September 2014 of £16.81. For the AESOP, ‘face value’ is calculated using the total number 
of shares bought on behalf of the relevant individuals during the year and an average share price for matching share purchases during the year of £16.08.
2
 The maximum number of shares to which the awards relate have been adjusted for the effects of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction and, 
in the case of Steve Bowcott, reflects the pro-rating of the award up to 30 April 2015. Please see ‘LTIP awards’ on page 92. 
3
 These awards were made prior to the individuals’ appointments as executive directors.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
89
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Performance conditions (and respective weightings) and targets for the LTIP awards which were granted during the 2015 financial year 
are set out in the table below. The awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date (22 October 2017). The same conditions and 
weightings will apply to the awards to be granted in the 2016 financial year.
Performance condition Weighting Targets
Cumulative EPS growth 1/2 0% vesting for below 5% p.a.
25% vesting for 5% p.a.
100% vesting for 15% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
TSR outperformance¹ 1/2 0% vesting for performance below index
25% vesting for performance in line with index
100% vesting for performance in line with index +12% p.a.
Straight-line vesting between these points
¹ Against a revenue-weighted index based 50% on the FTSE All-Share Construction and Materials Index and 50% on the FTSE All-Share Support Services Index 
(representing the Group’s approximate prior year revenue mix at the date of grant).
Payments for loss of office
Steve Bowcott’s employment with the Group ceased on 30 April 2015. In accordance with the terms of his service agreement and the 
Company’s remuneration policy, it was agreed that Steve would receive a payment in lieu of notice (‘PILON’), comprising his base salary, 
pension allowance and car allowance for his 12-month notice period, to be made on a phased basis, as follows:
• A lump sum payment of £129,275 was made in May 2015 in respect of the first three months of his notice period (being May, 
June and July 2015), of which £86,183 related to the 2015 financial year; and
• Nine monthly payments of £43,083 (being £517,000 in aggregate), commencing in August 2015. It was agreed that these monthly 
payments would be reduced if Steve obtained new employment before 30 April 2016, as explained below.
The Company also agreed to continue to provide Steve’s private medical insurance for six months from 30 April 2015 or, if earlier, until he 
secured new employment.
Steve agreed to use reasonable endeavours to seek new employment and that any remuneration earned before 30 April 2016 from any 
new employment secured would be set-off against the monthly instalments due to him. On 6 July 2015, it was announced that Steve had 
obtained alternative employment with John Sisk & Son, commencing on 1 September 2015. As a result, the monthly payments will either 
reduce or cease from such date. All payments made to Steve with respect to the 2016 financial year will be disclosed in next year’s annual 
report on remuneration.
The Company agreed to fund the cost of outplacement counselling for Steve up to a cap of £15,000 (excluding VAT), his legal fees in 
connection with his departure up to a cap of £10,000 (excluding VAT) and to contribute up to £500 towards the renewal of his membership 
of the Institution of Civil Engineers before 30 April 2016. In addition, under his service agreement Steve was entitled to a payment of 
£11,334 in respect of holiday entitlement accrued but untaken to 30 April 2015.
The Company awarded Steve a bonus of £305,000 for that part of the 2015 financial year in which he was actively employed by the 
Company. In accordance with the deferred share rules, his allocation of ‘deferred shares’ from 2012 and 2013 were released immediately 
after the termination of his employment and the 2014 allocation will be released at the expiry of the three-year holding period in 2017. It was 
also agreed that Steve’s 2012, 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards would be permitted to vest on the vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction of 
their performance conditions and time pro-rating up to 30 April 2015. The Company exercised discretion under the rules of its bonus plan 
and the LTIP, in each case as contemplated by the remuneration policy, to facilitate these arrangements.
All payments are subject to deductions for tax and national insurance contributions. 
Payments to past directors
As reported in last year’s annual report, Paul Sheffield stood down from the Board with effect from 30 June 2014. The aggregate 
monthly payments made to Paul from 1 July 2014 until his alternative employment with Laing O’Rourke commenced in October 2014 was 
£161,000. During the course of the year, Paul also received £327,000 in respect of his bonus for the 2014 financial year. Please see 
page 80 of last year’s annual report for further details relating to Paul Sheffield’s exit arrangements.
The values of the LTIP awards granted to Paul Sheffield and Ian Lawson (who ceased to be a director on 21 June 2013) which vested on 
17 November 2014, as disclosed in last year’s annual report, were based on a three-month average closing price of a share in the capital 
of the Company for the period ended 30 June 2014. Using the closing share price from 17 November 2014 of £14.43, Paul Sheffield’s 
award which vested in November 2014 is valued at £152,843 and Ian Lawson’s award is valued at £85,281.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90 The LTIP awards granted on 14 September 2012 will not vest and, accordingly, neither Paul Sheffield nor Ian Lawson will receive any 
shares under this award. Paul Sheffield retains a pro rated entitlement to the LTIP awarded granted on 28 October 2013 which, subject 
to performance, will vest on 28 October 2016.
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The Committee encourages executive directors to build up a shareholding in the Company of at least two years’ base salary, to be 
accumulated over a period of up to five years. Executive directors are therefore encouraged to retain any shares allocated to them as 
part of the annual bonus arrangements and 50% of the shares allocated to them upon the vesting of LTIP awards (net of tax) until this 
shareholding has been reached.
The following table sets out details, as at 30 June 2015, of the shareholdings and share interests of those persons (together with, 
where relevant, the shareholdings and share interests of their connected persons) who, during the 2015 financial year, served 
as a director of the Company:
Shares held Options held
Director
Owned
outright
1
 
or vested
Vested but
 subject to
a holding
period
2
Unvested
 and
subject to 
performance
conditions
3
Unvested 
and subject 
to continued
employment
4
Vested 
but not
exercised
Unvested 
and subject
to continued
employment
5
Shareholding 
guideline 
(% of salary)
Current 
shareholding
(% of salary)
6
Guideline
met?
Richard Bailey 2,660 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a 
Kirsty Bashforth 1,119 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a 
Steve Bowcott 17,151 2,693 67,636 93 – 1,847 n/a n/a n/a 
Nigel Brook 9,201 1,647 33,307 125 – 1,847 200 44.1 No
Bev Dew 767 – 24,674 10 – – 200 2.91 No
Amanda Mellor 1,492 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a 
Haydn Mursell 28,927 7,108 163,148 112 – – 200 101.5 No
Nigel Turner 22,260 2,711 39,436 100 – 1,072 200 101.5 No
Claudio Veritiero 5,932 2,167 47,385 124 – 1,847 200 32.9 No
Phil White 4,354 – – – – – n/a n/a n/a
Nick Winser 5,999 – – – – n/a n/a n/a 
1
 Comprising legally or beneficially held shares by the relevant director or their connected person (including partnership shares, dividend shares and matching 
shares purchased before 30 June 2012 under the AESOP – see ‘All Employee Share Ownership Plan’ below).
2
 Comprising deferred shares allocated to the relevant director in connection with annual bonuses. See ‘Deferred shares’ below.
3
 Comprising unvested LTIP awards. With respect to Steve Bowcott, calculated using the pro rated 2013, 2014 and 2015 awards referred to in ‘LTIP awards’ below.
4
 Comprising matching shares purchased after 30 June 2012 under the AESOP. Steve Bowcott’s matching shares are calculated to 30 April 2015, when his 
employment with the Group ceased. See ‘All Employee Share Ownership Plan’ on page 93.
5
 Comprising options under the SAYE Scheme. See ‘Share As You Earn Scheme’ on page 93.
6
 Calculated based on (i) shares owned outright by the director or his connected persons and (ii) deferred shares allocated to the relevant director in connection 
with annual bonuses, using the closing price of a share in the capital of the Company on 30 June 2015 of £14.23 and base salaries applicable to the year ended 
30 June 2015.
All shareholdings and share interests referred to in the above table include shares subscribed for pursuant to the rights issue associated 
with the Mouchel transaction and adjustments to entitlements under the LTIP awards and SAYE Scheme made to reflect the effects of 
the rights issue.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
91
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Deferred shares
Those persons who, during the 2015 financial year, served as a director of the Company beneficially owned, at 30 June 2015, the 
following numbers of shares in the capital of the Company as a result of awards of shares representing one-third of the relevant 
director’s net bonus (in the case of Steve Bowcott and Haydn Mursell) or one-quarter of the relevant director’s net bonus (in the case 
of Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero) made in each of the years indicated:
Director 2013 award 2014 award 2015 award
Cumulative total
30 June 2015
Steve Bowcott
1
– – 2,693 2,693
Nigel Brook 374 406 867 1,647
Bev Dew – – – –
Haydn Mursell 2,757 1,658 2,693 7,108
Nigel Turner 771 442 1,498 2,711
Claudio Veritiero 523 701 943 2,167
Date of award 14 September 2012 28 October 2013 29 September 2014 –
Share price used for award
2
1,401 pence 1,785 pence 1,681 pence –
End of holding period 14 September 2015 28 October 2016 29 September 2017 –
1
 The shares held on behalf of Steve Bowcott in respect of the 2013 and 2014 awards (in aggregate, 4,470 shares) were released with effect from the termination 
of his employment with the Group on 30 April 2015 in accordance with the rules of the deferred share bonus plan. 
2
 The closing price of a share in the capital of the Company from the business day immediately prior to the date of the award, being 13 September 2012, 
25 October 2013 and 26 September 2014, respectively.
LTIP awards
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2015, served as a director of the Company hold LTIP awards over the following 
maximum numbers of shares in the capital of the Company at 30 June 2015:
Director 2013 award 2014 award 2015 award
Cumulative
 total 
30 June
 2015
1
 Cumulative
 total 
30 June 
2014
Steve Bowcott
2
28,953 24,316 14,367 67,636 99,531
Nigel Brook 11,274 9,749 12,284 33,307 31,929
Bev Dew – – 24,674
3
24,674 –
Haydn Mursell 61,315 39,791 62,042 163,148 130,189
Nigel Turner 12,561 11,396 15,479 39,436 35,927
Claudio Veritiero 16,748 13,438 17,199 47,385 45,058
Date of award 14 September 2012 21 October 2013 22 October 2014
3
– –
Share price used for award
4
1,401 pence 1,781 pence 1,528 pence
3
– –
End of performance period 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2017 – –
1
 The maximum numbers of shares under all awards have been adjusted for the effects of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction, using a 
standard HMRC formula. 
2
 The 2013, 2014 and 2015 awards granted to Steve Bowcott were reduced from, respectively, 30,657, 39,791 and 51,722 shares (after adjustment for the 
effects of the Mouchel rights issue) to reflect his active service during the respective performance periods.
3
 The award granted to Bev Dew was made on 8 May 2015, using a share price of £15.85.
4
 The middle market quotation of a share from the business day immediately prior to the date of the award.
The performance conditions for the 2013 and 2014 awards are set out in the annual reports in respect of the year in which the awards 
were made. The performance conditions for the 2015 awards are set out on page 90.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92 All Employee Share Ownership Plan
Those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2015, served as a director of the Company beneficially own the following numbers 
of shares as a result of purchases under the All Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘the AESOP’) at 30 June 2015:
Director
Unrestricted 
shares
Partnership
 shares
Dividend
 shares
Matching
 shares
(<3 years)
Matching
 shares
(>3 years)
Cumulative
 total
30 June 
2015
1
Steve Bowcott 711 549 200 93 181 1,734
Nigel Brook 44 695 114 125 222 1,200
Bev Dew – 21 – 10 – 31
Haydn Mursell 9 578 87 112 176 962
Nigel Turner 1,673 559 344 100 179 2,855
Claudio Veritiero 1 503 65 124 127 820
1
 In the case of Steve Bowcott, AESOP purchases made up to 30 April 2015.
Under the AESOP, any amount saved by the executive directors will be applied by the trustee of the AESOP to make monthly purchases 
of shares on their behalf – 'partnership shares'. The Company matches purchases through the AESOP (currently at the rate of one free 
share for every two shares purchased – 'matching shares') and the trustee reinvests cash dividends to acquire further shares on behalf 
of the participants – 'dividend shares'.
Matching shares which have been purchased within three years of the termination of an individual’s employment may, depending on the 
circumstances of such termination, be forfeited.
'Unrestricted' shares are partnership, dividend and matching shares which were purchased more than five years from the relevant date 
and can be withdrawn from the AESOP trust by the participants without incurring income tax or national insurance liability.
Details of the number of matching shares purchased during the year are set out in the table in the paragraph headed ‘Incentive awards 
made during the year’ on page 89. At 16 September 2015, the Company had been notified that the following current directors had acquired 
beneficial interests in further ordinary shares in the capital of the Company under the AESOP since 30 June 2015: Nigel Brook – 45 shares, 
Bev Dew – 47 shares, Haydn Mursell – 37 shares, Nigel Turner – 47 shares and Claudio Veritiero – 46 shares. There have been no other 
changes in the interests of the directors (or their connected persons) in the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company since 30 June 2015.
Save As You Earn Scheme
Those persons who, during the 2015 financial year, served as a director of the Company had the following options under the Kier Group 
plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme (‘the SAYE Scheme’) at 30 June 2015:
Director Date granted
Maximum 
number of 
shares 
receivable  
at 1 July  
2014
1,2
Awarded  
during 
the year
2
Exercised 
during  
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year
Maximum 
number  
of shares 
receivable 
at 30 June 
2015
1,2
Exercise 
price
1
Exercise period
Steve Bowcott
3
27 April 2012 1,072 – – – 1,072 839 pence See note 3 below
31 October 2014 – 775 – – 775 1,159 
pence
See note 3 below
Nigel Brook 27 April 2012 1,072 – – – 1,072 839 pence 1 July 2015 – 
1 January 2016
31 October 2014 – 775 – – 775 1,159 
pence
1 December 2017 – 
1 June 2018
Nigel Turner 27 April 2012 1,072 – – – 1,072 839 pence 1 July 2015 – 
1 January 2016
Claudio Veritiero 3 May 2013 1,072 – – – 1,072 839 pence 1 July 2016 –  
1 January 2017
31 October 2014 – 775 – – 775 1,159 
pence
1 December 2017 – 
1 June 2018
1
 Adjusted for the effects of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction, using a standard HMRC formula.
2
 With respect to the options granted in 2013 or 2014, assumes that each director continues to save at the current rate(s) until the commencement of the relevant 
exercise period. With respect to Steve Bowcott, see note 3.
3
 Under the SAYE Scheme rules, Steve Bowcott has until 1 November 2015 (being the date which is six months after the cessation of his employment with the 
Group) to elect either to exercise the options granted to him in 2012 and/or 2014 or to remove his savings with respect to either or both awards. The savings 
period relating to the 2012 option concluded on 30 June 2015; he is entitled to continue to make savings in relation to the 2014 option up until he makes his 
election. If Steve elects to exercise his 2014 option prior to 1 November 2015, the number of shares to which he will be entitled will depend on the level of 
savings as at the date of exercise. The figures in the table which relate to the 2014 option assume, however, that Steve will continue to save at the current rate 
until the commencement of the exercise period which would, had Steve remained with the Group, have applied.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
93
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Total shareholder return and Chief Executive’s remuneration
Total shareholder return
The graph below shows the value, at 30 June 2015, of £100 invested in shares in the capital of the Company on 30 June 2009, 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Construction and Materials and FTSE All-Share Support Services indices. 
These benchmarks were chosen because they are considered to be the most appropriate against which the TSR of Kier should be 
measured and represents companies with which Kier competes. They also reflect trends within the UK construction and support 
services industries generally. The other points plotted are the values at 30 June during the six-year period.
£300
£250
£150
£50
£200
Value of £100 invested 
on 30 June 2009
£100
£0
30 June 09 30 June 10 30 June 11 30 June 12 30 June 14 30 June 13 30 June 15
■ FTSE All-Share Construction and Materials Index  ■ Kier  ■ FTSE All-Share Support Services Index  
Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below sets out the total remuneration of the Group’s Chief Executive paid with respect to each financial year indicated:  
30 June 2010 30 June 2011 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2015
Chief Executive John Dodds Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Paul Sheffield Haydn Mursell
Total single figure £1,427,000 £238,000 £753,000 £1,273,000 £987,000 £1,099,000 £1,079,000
Annual bonus
1
51% 69% 75% 48.8% 67.9% 91.9%
Long-term incentive
1
0% 0% 100% 31.2% 32.7% 0%
1
 As a percentage of maximum opportunity. 
All total single figures in the above table are rounded to the nearest £1,000.
Percentage change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage changes in base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of the director undertaking the role 
of Chief Executive in the 2014 financial year (Paul Sheffield), as compared to the 2015 financial year (Haydn Mursell), together with the 
approximate comparative average figures for those employees within the Group who were also eligible for salary reviews on 1 July of 
each year and who were not subject to collective agreements. This section of the employee population (comprising approximately 7,600 
individuals across a number of levels within the Group) is considered to be the most appropriate group for the purposes of a comparison, 
as decisions with respect to these employees are within the control of the Group and are affected by similar external market forces as those 
which relate to the Chief Executive’s remuneration. Approximately 600 employees are eligible to receive a bonus.
Chief
 Executive
 change
Other
employees
 change
Base salary 5.0% 4.5%
Taxable benefits (0.1)% 3.0%
Annual bonus 41.9% 60.9%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The graph below shows the percentage changes in the total employee expenditure and dividend paid between the 2014 and 2015 
financial years:
Total employee expenditure (£m) Dividend (£m)
2015 747.2 +21.0%
 613.4 2014
2015 40.2 +7.8%
 37.3 2014
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94 Employee remuneration is remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group and is explained in note 6 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The dividend figures in the graph comprise the dividends paid in the 2014 and 2015 financial years (as stated in note 10 to the 
consolidated financial statements), being, respectively, (i) the final dividend for the 2013 financial year and the interim dividend for the 
2014 financial year and (ii) the final dividend for the 2014 financial year and the interim dividend for the 2015 financial year.
Implementation of the remuneration policy for the 2016 financial year
Executive directors’ base salary
The base salaries of the executive directors are, with effect from 1 July 2015, as follows:
Director
From 
1 July 
2015
From
 1 July
1
 2014 Increase
Nigel Brook £350,000 £350,000 –
Bev Dew £375,000 £375,000 –
Haydn Mursell £530,250 £505,000 5%
Nigel Turner £350,000 £350,000 –
Claudio Veritiero £350,000 £350,000 –
1
 Or with effect from the date of appointment to the Board, in the case of Nigel Brook, Bev Dew, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero.
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for each executive director will remain at 100% of base salary for the 2016 financial year, of 
which 45% will relate to profit performance (2014: 55%), 25% to cash/net debt performance (2014: 25%), 10% to health and safety 
targets (2014: 10%) and 20% to personal objectives set by the Committee (2014: 10%). The targets, and performance against them, will 
be disclosed in further detail in next year’s annual report. One-third of the net bonus will be satisfied on allocation of shares, deferred for 
three years.
LTIP awards
The executive directors will be granted LTIP awards of 150% of base salary. The performance conditions for these awards will relate to 
cumulative EPS growth and TSR outperformance (with equal weightings). The targets for both the EPS and TSR elements of the award 
are the same as for the awards granted in the 2015 financial year, as described on page 90.
Pension and taxable benefits
The executive directors will receive a pension contribution of 20% of salary, subject to the annual allowance, with the balance being paid 
as a cash allowance. The executive directors will also receive private health insurance and either a company car or a car allowance of 
£11,900 per annum. Both amounts remain unchanged from the 2015 financial year.
Non-executive directors’ fees
The Board engaged Mercer to review the fees payable to the non-executive directors (including the Chairman), using a range of 
external reference points.
Having considered the results of the review, the Board decided to increase the base fee payable to the non-executive directors by 8.7% 
so as to bring it into line with the equivalent fee paid by peer companies. 
The Board also decided not to increase the additional fees payable to the Senior Independent Director or the chairs of the Board's 
committees and that there would be no increase in the non-executive directors' fees from 1 July 2016.
The fee structure applicable to the non-executive directors (excluding the Chairman) with effect from 1 July 2015 is as follows:
Director
From 
1 July 
2014
From 
1 July 
2015 Increase
Non-executive director £46,000 £50,000 8.7%
Chair of Board committee £10,000 £10,000 –
Senior Independent Director £10,000 £10,000 –
The Board also decided, having considered the information provided by the benchmarking exercise, that it would also be appropriate to 
increase the fee payable to the Chairman by 8.7% so as to bring it into line with the equivalent fee paid by peer companies. The Chairman 
does not receive a fee for his work as the chair of the Nomination Committee. The Committee also agreed that there would be no 
increase in the Chairman’s fee from 1 July 2016.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
95
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 The total fees payable to the non-executive directors with effect from 1 July 2015 are as follows:
Director
Base fee from 
1 July 
2015
Chair of
committee
fee from 
1 July 
2015
Senior
Independent
Director
fee from 
1 July 
2015
Total from 
1 July 
2015
Total from 
1 July 
2014 
Total
increase
Richard Bailey £50,000 £10,000 £10,000 £70,000 £66,000 6.1%
Kirsty Bashforth £50,000 – – £50,000 £46,000
1
8.7%
Amanda Mellor £50,000 £10,000 – £60,000 £56,000 7.1%
Phil White £188,000 – – £188,000 £173,000 8.7%
Nick Winser £50,000 £10,000 – £60,000 £56,000 7.1%
1
 With effect from 1 September 2014.
Remuneration Committee
Membership and meeting attendance
The members of the Committee are:
• Amanda Mellor (chair)
• Richard Bailey
• Kirsty Bashforth
• Phil White
• Nick Winser
In addition, the Chief Executive is invited, from time to time, to attend meetings of the Committee. No individuals are involved in 
decisions relating to their own remuneration. The Committee met formally three times during the year. The secretary of the Committee 
is the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s website at http://www.kier.co.uk/corporategovernance.
Principal activities in 2015
The annual statement on pages 84 and 85 refers to a number of the Committee’s principal areas of activity during the 2015 financial year. 
Other activities during the year included:
• Approving the 2014 remuneration report; 
• Approving the bonuses paid to the executive directors in respect of the 2014 financial year;
• Setting the performance measures relating to, and the quantum of, LTIP awards to be made to the executive directors during the 
2015 financial year; 
• Engaging Mercer to conduct a review of the executive directors’ remuneration and the non-executive directors’ fees (on behalf of 
the Board); and
• Reviewing and setting the executive directors’ remuneration for the 2016 financial year.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96 Advisers
During the 2015 financial year, Mercer was appointed by the Committee as its remuneration advisers, in succession to Kepler Associates 
(‘Kepler’), which also provided remuneration advice to the Committee during the year.
Mercer provides advice in respect of the Mouchel Superannuation Fund. However, the Committee is satisfied that neither Kepler nor Mercer, 
in providing remuneration advice to the Committee, had any connection with the Company that impaired its independence. Total fees of 
£89,450 (excluding VAT) were payable in respect of advice received from Mercer and Kepler during the 2015 financial year. Mercer is a 
signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which has been developed by the Remuneration Consultants Group.
The Committee also seeks internal support and advice from the Company Secretary (Hugh Raven) and the Group HR Director (Chris Last).
Shareholder voting
At the 2014 AGM, the results of the votes on the resolutions relating to the remuneration policy and the remuneration report were:
Votes for
1
Percentage
 votes for Votes against
Percentage
 votes against
Votes
 withheld
Remuneration policy 31,687,997 98.87 361,173 1.13 115,415
Remuneration report 28,194,444 88.52 3,658,724 11.48 311,867
1
 Includes those votes for which discretion was given to the Chairman.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
97
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Directors’ remuneration policy (summary)
Introduction
Kier’s remuneration policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM will continue to apply in the 2016 financial year. Accordingly, 
we will not be seeking shareholder approval for a revised policy at the 2015 AGM. 
The Committee has decided to include the policy table and certain other extracts from the policy in this year’s report for ease 
of reference and so as to provide context for the decisions taken by the Committee during the year. Where relevant, references 
to 2015 targets in the policy have been updated to refer to 2016 targets, together with certain other non-material changes. 
The full policy is set out on pages 69 to 76 (inclusive) of last year’s annual report, which can be found on Kier’s website at  
http://www.kier.co.uk/annualreport2014.
Policy table
A summary of the Group’s policy for each element of an executive director’s remuneration is set out in the table below:
Element and link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base salary 
To attract and retain 
executive directors of the 
calibre required to deliver 
the Group’s strategy.
Salaries are reviewed annually by reference to an individual’s experience, performance and role within the 
Group, the external market (including FTSE companies of a similar size and sector peers) and any increase 
awarded to the wider employee population.
Any increase is typically effective from 1 July.
Any increase will typically be in line with those awarded to the wider 
employee population. The Committee has discretion to award higher 
increases in circumstances that it considers appropriate, such as a 
material change in the complexity of the business or an individual’s 
responsibility. Details of salary changes will be disclosed in the 
annual report.
Continued strong performance.
Benefits 
To provide benefits which 
are competitive with 
the market.
Benefits are reviewed from time to time and typically include, but are not limited to, a company car or car 
allowance, private health insurance and life assurance.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may also approve the provision of additional benefits or allowances – 
for example, the relocation of an executive director to perform his or her role.
Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate 
in light of the market and an individual’s circumstances.
None.
SAYE Scheme 
To encourage ownership 
of the Company’s shares.
An HMRC-approved scheme allowing all employees, including executive directors, to save up to the maximum 
limit specified by HMRC rules. Options are granted at up to a 20% discount.
The maximum amount that may be saved is the limit prescribed by HMRC 
(or such other lower limit as determined by the Committee) at the time 
employees are invited to participate in the scheme. Typically, employees 
are invited to participate on an annual basis.
None.
AESOP 
To encourage ownership 
of the Company’s shares.
An HMRC-approved scheme which is open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group companies. 
Executive directors are eligible to participate. 
The plan allows employees to purchase shares out of pre-tax income. 
The Company may match shares purchased with an award of free shares. Matching shares may be forfeited 
if employees leave within three years of their award, in accordance with the AESOP rules.
The plan trustee can reinvest cash dividends to acquire further shares on behalf of participants.
Participants can purchase shares up to the prevailing limit approved by 
HMRC (or such other lower limit as determined by the Committee) at the 
time they are invited to participate. 
The Company currently offers to match purchases made through the plan 
at the rate of one free share for every two shares purchased. 
None.
Pension  
To provide a retirement 
benefit which is 
competitive with 
the market.
Executive directors participate in a defined contribution scheme. For current executive directors, the maximum employer contribution is 
20% of pensionable salary.
Executive directors may elect to receive all or part of the employer 
contribution as a taxable cash supplement.
None.
Annual bonus 
To reward the delivery of 
near-term performance 
targets and business 
strategy.
The Company operates a discretionary bonus scheme.
Performance measures and targets are set by the Committee at the start of the year. Payments are based 
on an assessment of performance at the end of the year.
One-third of any award is deferred for three years (subject to early release for ‘good leavers’) and satisfied 
in Kier Group plc shares. 
Past awards of deferred shares are subject to forfeiture if an individual’s employment is terminated in 
circumstances of gross misconduct and/or justifying summary dismissal and/or the Group’s profit before 
tax or cash position for the relevant year is found to have been misstated.
Awards of deferred shares made from 2014 will include a revised ‘malus’ provision. See ‘Malus’ on page 102.
Dividend payments accrue on deferred bonus shares over the deferral period.
The current maximum potential bonus is 100% of base salary.
‘Threshold’ performance, for which an element of bonus may become 
payable under each component of the annual bonus, is set by the 
Committee at the start of each financial year.
The level of bonus for achieving threshold performance varies by 
performance measure, and may vary for a measure from year to year, 
to ensure that it is aligned with the Committee’s assessment of the 
degree of difficulty (or ‘stretch’) in achieving it.
The performance measures and targets for the 2016 financial 
year are profit (45%), cash (25%), health and safety (10%) and 
personal objectives (20%). 
The Committee has discretion to determine the measures and 
their relative weightings each year. The weighting towards non-
financial measures will be no higher than 25% of the maximum 
potential bonus.
The Committee has discretion to adjust bonus payments to 
ensure that they accurately reflect business performance over 
the performance period and are fair to shareholders as well 
as recipients.
Actual targets for each performance measure (and performance 
against each of these targets), and any use by the Committee 
of its discretion with respect to bonus payments, will be 
disclosed in the annual report immediately following the end 
of the performance period.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
99 98
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Element and link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
LTIP 
To reward the sustained 
strong performance by the 
Group over three years.
Awards are made annually and vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of a 
three-year performance period. 
At the start of each performance period, the Committee sets performance targets which it considers to be 
appropriately stretching.
Awards are satisfied in the form of a deferred, contingent right to acquire shares in the Company, at no cost 
to the individual.
LTIP awards granted from 2014 will include a ‘malus’ provision. See ‘Malus’ on page 102.
If an event or series of events occurs as a result of which the Committee deems it fair that the performance 
conditions should be waived or modified, the Committee has discretion during the vesting period to waive or modify 
them. Any modified performance conditions must be no more difficult to satisfy than the original performance 
conditions were when first set.
Any use of Committee discretion with respect to waiving or modifying performance conditions will be disclosed in 
the relevant annual report.
The maximum award under the rules of the plan is 200% of base salary. 
The Committee may grant awards of up to the maximum permitted under 
the LTIP rules when it considers it appropriate to do so. The reasons for 
an award in excess of 150% of salary will be disclosed in the relevant 
annual report.
On achieving the threshold performance level for each element of the 
award, 25% of the relevant element of the award will vest. Vesting is on a 
straight-line basis between threshold and maximum levels of performance.
LTIP awards will be awarded in the 2016 financial year based 
on an equal weighting of EPS and TSR performance. EPS 
performance is measured by compound cumulative growth over 
the performance period.
TSR outperformance is measured on a multiplicative basis 
relative to a revenue-weighted index based on the FTSE All-Share 
Construction and Materials and FTSE All-Share Support Services 
indices. If TSR outperformance is used in future award cycles, 
the revenue weightings will be fixed based on the Group’s 
approximate revenue mix in the year prior to grant. 
The Committee retains discretion to supplement EPS and 
TSR with additional performance measures to ensure that the 
awards are always linked to sustained business performance. 
No measure will carry a weighting of less than 25%.
Actual performance measures and weightings will be disclosed 
in the annual report immediately following the granting of 
an award. 
The Committee is satisfied that this remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders. The Committee retains discretion 
to make non-material changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
101 100
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Payments from outstanding awards
The Company will honour any commitment entered 
into, and executive directors will be eligible to receive 
payment from any award made, prior to the approval 
and introduction of the remuneration policy with 
effect from the AGM on 13 November 2014. 
Notes to the policy table
‘Malus’
Deferred annual bonus awards made before 2014 
include the ‘malus’ provision described in the 
table above, whereas deferred annual bonus and 
LTIP awards granted from 2014 onwards are and 
will be subject to revised ‘malus’ provisions. 
These allow the Committee to determine, in its 
absolute discretion, that (i) an unvested LTIP award 
(or part of an award) may not vest or that the level of 
vesting is reduced and/or (ii) the number of deferred 
shares (allocated in part satisfaction of the annual 
bonus) is reduced (including to nil) in certain 
circumstances. Examples of such circumstances 
include, but are not limited to:
• A material misstatement of the Group’s 
financial statements;
• A material error in determining the level of 
satisfaction of a performance condition or target;
• A participant deliberately misleading the 
Company, the market and/or shareholders in 
relation to the financial performance of the 
Group; and
• A participant’s employment being terminated 
in circumstances of gross misconduct and/or 
circumstances justifying summary dismissal.
The Committee has the right to apply the ‘malus’ 
provision to an individual or on a collective basis.
Executive director shareholding guidelines
The Committee encourages executive directors to 
accumulate a shareholding in the Company of at 
least two years’ base salary over a period of up to 
five years. Executive directors are encouraged to 
retain any shares allocated to them as part of the 
annual bonus arrangements and 50% of the shares 
allocated to them upon the vesting of LTIP awards 
(net of tax) until they reach this level of shareholding.
Selection of performance measures and approach 
to setting targets
The measures used for the annual bonus are 
determined annually to reflect KPIs which are 
considered important and relevant to the Group. 
The Committee believes that using a number of 
measures provides a balanced incentive. The 
measures themselves are aligned to, and are 
designed to support the delivery of, the 
Group’s strategy. 
In relation to the LTIP awards, the Committee believes 
that the combination of EPS and TSR clearly aligns 
performance to shareholders’ interests and the 
Group’s long-term strategy. EPS is a key measure of 
long-term underlying performance of the Group. TSR 
is intended to measure management’s contribution 
to the creation of value for shareholders. A revenue-
weighted index based on the FTSE All-Share 
Construction and Materials and FTSE All-Share 
Support Services indices reflects the Group’s mix of 
business. In future years, the Committee may decide 
to select other performance measures.
Targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP awards are 
reviewed before the awards are made, based on a 
number of internal and external reference points. The 
Committee intends that targets will be stretching but 
achievable and will align management’s interests 
with those of shareholders.
Differences from remuneration policy for 
other employees
Kier’s approach to setting annual remuneration is 
broadly consistent across the Group. Consideration 
is given to the experience, performance and 
responsibilities of individuals as well as publicly 
available external benchmarking data, to the extent 
considered necessary or appropriate. Certain grades 
of senior employees are eligible to participate in 
an annual bonus scheme with similar performance 
measures to those used for the executive directors. 
Maximum opportunities and specific performance 
measures vary by seniority, with business-specific 
measures applied where appropriate. Senior 
managers (currently, approximately 250 individuals) 
are also eligible to participate in the LTIP. The 
performance measures for each LTIP award cycle 
are typically the same for all participants (although 
the rules of the LTIP permit the Committee to 
grant LTIP awards using different performance 
measures). Award sizes vary according to seniority 
and responsibility. 
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102 Approach to remuneration on recruitment
External appointment
When recruiting a new executive director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of 
remuneration. In addition, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under an alternative scheme or arrangement 
in order to facilitate recruitment of an individual, subject to the policy set out below:
Component Approach
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills 
of the individual, internal relativities and the appointee’s current base salary. Where a new appointee has an initial 
base salary set below the market median, any subsequent adjustment will be managed by the Committee, using 
(where appropriate) phased increases and subject to the individual’s development in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the remuneration policy, which may also include (but 
are not limited to) any necessary expenses relating to expatriation or relocation on recruitment.
SAYE Scheme New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
AESOP New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions of up to 20% of pensionable salary into a defined contribution 
pension arrangement or an equivalent taxable cash supplement or a combination of both.
Annual bonus The annual bonus structure described in the remuneration policy will apply to new appointees (including the 
maximum opportunity), pro rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion of that year employed. One-third of any 
bonus earned will be deferred into shares.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIP of up to 200% of salary, as contemplated by the  
remuneration policy.
‘Buy-out’ awards The Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a ‘buy-out’ award (with respect to either a bonus or a share-
based incentive scheme) under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate the recruitment of an 
individual. When doing so, the Committee may, to the extent required, exercise the discretion available under Listing 
Rule 9.4.2. Any such ‘buy-out’ award would have a fair value of no higher than that of the award forfeited. In granting 
any such award, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the 
forfeited awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining. 
When considering any performance conditions, the Committee will, where appropriate, take into account those used 
in the Company’s own incentive arrangements. Where appropriate, the Committee will also consider whether it is 
necessary to introduce further retention measures for an individual – for example, extended deferral periods.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that the 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. 
Internal promotion
When recruiting a new executive director through internal promotion, the Committee will set remuneration in a manner consistent with 
the policy for external appointments set out above (other than with respect to ‘buy-out’ awards). Where an individual has contractual 
commitments made prior to their promotion to executive director level, the Company will continue to honour these commitments. 
The remuneration of individuals below the Board is typically not greater than for executive directors.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
103
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Service contracts
A summary of the key elements of the executive directors’ service agreements (insofar as they relate to remuneration) is as follows:
Term of contract Summary of provisions
Notice period 12 months’ notice (both to and from the executive director).
PILON Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by undertaking to make a PILON comprising base 
salary, accrued (but untaken) holiday entitlement, pension contributions or allowance, car allowance and 
private medical insurance. 
The Company is entitled to make the PILON on a phased basis, so that any outstanding payment(s) would be  
reduced or stopped if alternative employment is obtained.
Change of 
control 
There are no payments due upon a change of control, although deferred bonus will be released.
Entitlements 
on termination
There is no contractual entitlement to notice or any other payments in respect of the period after cessation of 
employment in circumstances in which the individual is summarily dismissed. In such circumstances, deferred 
bonus shares will be forfeited and LTIP awards will lapse.
If the individual is not a ‘bad leaver’ (and any ‘malus’ provision is not applied), deferred bonus shares will be  
released upon cessation of employment and the position with respect to LTIP awards is as set out under  
‘Payments for loss of office’ below.
If not required to take any remaining holiday entitlement during his/her notice period, the executive director will receive 
a payment for any accrued (but untaken) holiday entitlement.
It is expected that these terms will apply to any service agreements entered into with executive directors during the period in which this 
remuneration policy will apply.
Payments for loss of office
The Company’s policy on payments for loss of office is as follows:
Component Approach
Annual bonus Individuals who are considered to be ‘good leavers’ may be considered for a bonus in relation to the year in which 
their active employment ceases. Any payment will normally be pro rated for length of service and performance 
during the year. However, the Committee retains the discretion to review the performance of the individual and the 
Group in general and, having done so, determine that a different level of bonus payment would be appropriate. 
Deferred bonus shares will, typically, be released to the individual upon cessation of office, unless the ‘malus’ 
provision applies. 
LTIP If an executive director’s employment ceases for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with 
the agreement of the Company or his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group or such other 
circumstances approved by the Committee, outstanding awards are retained. The Committee may also (at its 
discretion) permit unvested LTIP awards to vest on an accelerated basis or alternatively be retained until the vesting 
date. Unvested LTIP awards will, subject to Committee discretion, normally be pro rated for length of service during 
the performance period and will, subject to performance, normally vest at the same time as all other awards in the 
LTIP award cycle. A ‘malus’ provision also applies to all LTIP awards granted from 2014. 
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards automatically lapse, unless the Committee exercises its discretion 
otherwise (taking into account the factors detailed immediately following this table).
AESOP and 
SAYE Scheme
The executive directors are subject to the same ‘leaver’ provisions as all other participants, as prescribed by the 
rules of the relevant scheme or plan.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
104 Component Approach
Other If the Company terminates an executive director’s employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make 
a redundancy payment to the executive director in line with his service agreement, any applicable collective 
bargaining agreement and applicable law and regulation.
The Company may make a contribution towards an executive director’s legal fees for advice relating to a 
compromise or settlement agreement and may also make other payments connected to the departure – for 
example, for outplacement services. With respect to any such payments, the Committee will authorise what it 
considers to be reasonable in the circumstances.
Change of 
control
Deferred bonus shares will be released, any outstanding LTIP awards may vest early (subject to the Committee’s 
discretion, having taken into account current and forecast progress against the performance condition(s), the 
proportion of the vesting period which has elapsed and any other factors considered by the Committee to be 
relevant) and the rules of the AESOP and the SAYE Scheme will apply. No payments are due under the executive 
directors’ service agreements upon a change of control.
Where appropriate, the Committee will oblige the individual to mitigate his/her losses and either offset any alternative remuneration 
received by the individual against any payments made by the Company for loss of office or reduce any payments to be made by the 
Company for loss of office to take account of any failure to mitigate when, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the individual 
has failed actively to do so.
In exercising discretion in respect of any of the elements referred to above, the Committee will take into account all factors which it 
considers to be appropriate at the relevant time. These include, but are not limited to: the duration of the executive director’s service; the 
Committee’s assessment of the executive director’s contribution to the success of the Group; whether the executive director has worked 
any notice period or whether a payment in lieu of notice is being made; the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties; and the need to 
compromise any claims which the executive director may have. Any use of Committee discretion will be disclosed in the relevant annual 
report on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
Employees are not formally consulted on the executive directors’ remuneration and were not consulted during the preparation of the 
remuneration policy set out above. However, the Group’s employee engagement survey provides an opportunity for employees to provide 
their opinion on their own remuneration arrangements (and also on other matters across the Group). 
The Committee takes into account the overall pay and employment conditions of employees within the Group when making decisions on 
the executive directors’ remuneration. Accordingly, the Committee (i) is provided with information about the proposed annual group-wide 
pay review when setting the executive directors’ salaries, (ii) is made aware of the approximate outcomes of annual bonuses and (iii) sets 
the LTIP performance targets which typically apply to all participants in the annual LTIP award cycle. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The views of shareholders, and guidance from shareholder representative bodies, are important to the Committee and provide the 
context for setting the remuneration of the executive directors. The chair of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board have met a 
number of the significant shareholders during the 2015 financial year to understand their views. 
The Committee intends to review the remuneration policy during the 2016 financial year and will consult with shareholders if it decides 
that material changes need to be made to it.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
105
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Non-executive director remuneration policy
General
The non-executive directors’ remuneration (including that of the Chairman) reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil their duties. 
Non-executive directors do not receive bonuses, long-term incentive awards, a pension or compensation on termination of their 
appointments. The policy on non-executive directors’ fees is as follows:
Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Fees 
To attract and retain non-
executive directors of 
the calibre required and 
with appropriate skills 
and experience. 
Fee levels are reviewed 
annually with reference to 
individual experience, the 
external market and the 
expected time commitment 
required of the director.
Additional fees are payable to 
committee chairs and to the 
Senior Independent Director.
Fees may be increased in 
line with the outcome of 
the annual review and will not 
normally exceed the increase 
awarded to the wider employee 
population. Higher increases 
may be awarded should there 
be a material change to the 
requirements of the role, such 
as additional time commitment. 
Any changes to fees will be 
disclosed in the annual report 
on remuneration for the 
relevant year.
Continued strong performance.
Recruiting non-executive directors 
When recruiting a new non-executive director, the Committee will follow the policy set out in the table above.
Corporate governance
Remuneration Report continued
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
106 Introduction
The directors present their annual report and audited 
financial statements as at, and for the year ended, 
30 June 2015. 
The Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report 
collectively comprise the ‘management report’ 
for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 4.1.5R.
Information incorporated by reference
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters 
required to be included in the directors’ report have 
been incorporated by reference in this report, 
including certain matters which have been included 
in the Strategic Report because the Board considers 
them to be of strategic importance.
Specifically, the following information is incorporated 
by reference in this report:
Future 
developments
An indication of the likely future 
developments of the business 
of the Company is set out in 
the Strategic Report on pages 
1 to 59 (inclusive).
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
Information relating to the 
greenhouse gas emissions 
of the Company is set out 
on page 30.
Going concern The going concern statement 
is set out on page 59.
Directors The names of the directors 
of the Company during the 
reporting period are set out on 
page 69. Biographical details 
of the directors of the Company 
are shown on pages 64 to 66 
(inclusive). Details of directors’ 
interests in the Company’s 
shares are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on 
page 91. 
Corporate 
governance
A statement on the 
Group’s corporate 
governance is set out on 
pages 60 to 63 (inclusive).
Directors’ 
responsibilities
The statement of directors’ 
responsibilities is set out 
on page 111.
Important events 
since the end of 
the financial year
The particulars of the important 
events affecting the Company 
and its subsidiaries which have 
occurred since the end of the 
financial year are set out in 
the Strategic Report on pages 
1 to 59 (inclusive) and/or 
note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Results and dividends 
The Group’s profit for the year after taxation and 
discontinued operations was £5.5m (2014: £10.7m). 
An interim dividend of 19.2 pence per share* (2014: 
18.0 pence per share*), amounting to approximately 
£13.2m (2014: £12.3m), was paid on 15 May 2015. 
The directors propose a final dividend of 36.0 pence 
per share (2014: 39.6 pence per share*), amounting 
to approximately £34.1m (2014: £27.0m), payable 
on 27 November 2015 to shareholders on the 
register of members on 25 September 2015.
* As restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights 
issue associated with the Mouchel transaction.
Qualifying third-party indemnities 
The articles of association of the Company (‘the 
Articles’) entitle the directors of the Company, to 
the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 
and other applicable legislation (together, ‘the 
Companies Acts’), to be indemnified out of the 
assets of the Company in the event that they suffer 
any expenses in connection with certain proceedings 
relating to the execution of their duties as directors 
of the Company.
In addition, and in common with many other 
companies, the Company has insurance for its 
directors and officers to cover certain losses or 
liabilities to which they may be exposed due to 
their office. 
Political donations 
No political donations were made during the year 
(2014: nil).
Financial instruments 
Details of the financial risk management objectives 
and policies of the Group, together with its exposure 
to material financial risks, are set out in note 27 
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Research and development 
The Group undertakes research and development 
activity in creating innovative construction techniques 
and designs for its projects. The direct expenditure 
incurred is not readily identifiable, as the investment 
is typically made within the relevant project.
Employees
The companies in the Group are equal opportunities 
employers. The Group gives consideration to 
applications for employment made by disabled 
persons (having regard to their particular aptitudes 
and abilities) and encourages and assists, whenever 
practicable, the recruitment, training, career 
development and promotion of disabled people and 
the retention of, and appropriate training for, those 
who become disabled during the course of their 
employment and who can be employed in a safe 
working environment. The Group’s approach to 
employee involvement, equal opportunities, 
health and safety and the environment is set 
out in the Resources and Relationships Report 
on pages 28 to 31 (inclusive) and the Safety, 
Health and Environment Committee Report on 
pages 82 and 83, each of which is incorporated 
by reference into this report.
Corporate governance
Directors’ Report 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
107
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Corporate governance
Directors’ Report continued 
The Group provides relevant information on matters 
of concern to employees through newsletters, video 
addresses, the Group’s intranet, social media and 
formal and informal meetings with various groups 
of employees and management. These aim to create 
a common awareness on the part of employees on 
matters affecting the performance of the Group. 
The Group also consults with employees to ascertain 
their views in relation to decisions which are likely 
to affect their interests. An example of this is the 
employee engagement survey which took place 
during the year.
The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 
Sharesave Scheme (‘the SAYE Scheme’) for eligible 
employees and makes available a dealing service 
to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with 
a minimum of formality. The Group also operates 
an All Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘the AESOP’) 
for all employees, which includes a share-
matching element. 
In addition, as a result of the acquisition of May 
Gurney, the Group operates the May Gurney 
Integrated Services PLC Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme 2007, which is similar to the SAYE 
Scheme. The existing May Gurney shares in this 
scheme were exchanged by participants for new 
options over shares in the capital of the Company. 
Share capital 
As at 30 June 2015, the issued share capital of the 
Company comprised a single class of ordinary shares 
of 1 pence each. At that date, 95,159,247 shares in 
the capital of the Company were in issue. During the 
year, 65,358 shares were issued in relation to the 
scrip dividend alternative, 182,843 shares were 
issued in connection with the SAYE Scheme and 
39,646,692 shares were issued pursuant to a rights 
issue undertaken by the Company in order to finance 
the acquisition of MRBL Limited (‘Mouchel’). Details 
of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 
24 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the 
Companies Acts, shares may be issued with such 
rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary 
resolution determine or, if the Company has not so 
determined, as the directors may decide. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities 
in the Company 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities 
in the Company, except that certain restrictions may 
from time to time be imposed: 
• By law or regulation (for example, insider dealing 
laws); and 
• Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (‘the Listing Rules’), whereby 
certain employees require approval to deal in the 
Company’s shares. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities in 
the Company. 
Substantial voting rights 
As at 16 September 2015, the Company had been 
notified of the following interests in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company (being voting rights 
over such share capital), pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
Shareholder Interest¹
Standard Life Investments 
(Holdings) Limited 9.0%
BlackRock, Inc below 5.0%
Schroders plc 4.8%
1
 Subject to rounding.
Securities carrying special rights 
No person holds securities in the Company carrying 
special rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Rights under employees’ share schemes 
As at 30 June 2015, RBC Trustees (Guernsey) 
Limited (‘RBC’), as trustee of the Kier Group 1999 
Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’), held 307,081 
shares (0.32% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at that date) on trust for the benefit 
of the employees of the Group, of which 16,322 
shares were allocated to certain directors or senior 
managers as a result of their annual bonus being 
satisfied in part by an allocation of deferred shares 
(‘the Deferred Shares’). The Trust was established 
for the purposes of satisfying awards of shares 
made to individuals under the Group’s remuneration 
and long-term incentive arrangements. 
During the year, RBC either received the dividends 
in respect of the Deferred Shares or elected to take 
up the scrip dividend with respect to these shares, 
as requested by the participants, but waived the 
dividends payable in respect of the other shares 
held by it. RBC, in turn, transferred the dividends or 
allocated additional shares to those directors and 
senior managers who requested that RBC elected 
to take up the scrip dividend with respect to their 
Deferred Shares. 
As at 30 June 2015, Computershare Investor 
Services plc held 1,002,237 shares (representing 
approximately 1.05% of the issued share capital 
of the Company as at that date) on trust for the 
benefit of staff and former staff who are members 
of the AESOP. 
As at 30 June 2015, the trustee of the May Gurney 
Limited Employee Share Ownership Trust and the 
trustee of the May Gurney Integrated Services PLC 
Employee Benefit Trust held, respectively, 226,115 
and 148,307 shares in the capital of the Company 
(together, 374,422 shares representing approximately 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
108 0.39% of the issued share capital of the Company 
as at that date) on trust for the benefit of employees 
of May Gurney. Both trusts were established for 
the purposes of satisfying awards of shares to 
individuals under May Gurney’s remuneration and 
long-term incentive arrangements. During the year, 
the trustees waived the dividends payable in respect 
of these shares.
Voting 
Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares 
may have been issued or to which they are subject 
and to the Articles, every member present in person 
or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote 
has, upon a show of hands, one vote and, upon a 
poll, one vote for every share held. In the case of 
joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder 
who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, 
will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the 
other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will 
be determined by the order in which the names stand 
in the register in respect of the joint holding. 
Restrictions on voting rights 
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise 
determines, be entitled to vote at any general 
meeting in respect of any share held by it unless all 
calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of 
that share have been paid or if that member has 
been served with a disenfranchisement notice (as 
defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in 
that share required to be provided under the 
Companies Acts. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on voting rights. 
Appointment and replacement of directors 
The directors shall be not less than three and not 
more than 12 in number. The Company may by 
ordinary resolution vary the minimum and/or 
maximum number of directors. 
Directors may be appointed by the Company by 
ordinary resolution or by the Board. A director 
appointed by the Board holds office only until the 
next AGM of the Company after his/her appointment 
and is then eligible to stand for election. 
Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM of the 
Company, one-third of the directors who are subject 
to the requirement to retire by rotation (not including 
any director who was appointed by the Board and is 
standing for election) will retire from office and may 
offer themselves for re-election by the members. 
The directors to retire by rotation will be those who 
have been longest in office since their last election. 
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, 
notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the 
directors will offer themselves for re-election in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which 
special notice has been given, remove any director 
before the expiry of the director’s period of office. 
The office of a director will be vacated if: 
• The director becomes bankrupt or the subject 
of an interim receiving order or makes any 
arrangement or composition with his creditors 
generally or applies to the court for an interim 
order in connection with a voluntary arrangement 
under the Insolvency Act 1986; 
• The director is certified as having become 
physically or mentally incapable of acting as 
a director and may remain so for more than 
three months; 
• The director ceases to be a director by virtue of 
the Companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law 
from being a director; 
• The director receives written notice from not less 
than three-quarters of the other directors 
removing the director from office; or 
• In the case of a director who holds executive 
office, the director ceases to hold such office and 
the majority of the other directors resolve that the 
relevant director’s office be vacated. 
Amendment of Articles 
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders. 
Powers of the directors 
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and 
any directions given by the Company by special 
resolution, the business of the Company will be 
managed by the Board, which may exercise all the 
powers of the Company. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing 
its shares 
The directors were granted authority at the AGM on 
13 November 2014 to allot shares in the Company 
in accordance with section 551 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (i) up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £184,664 and (ii) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £369,328 in connection with a rights 
issue. The directors were also granted authority to 
allot shares non-pre-emptively and wholly for cash 
up to an aggregate nominal amount of £27,700. 
In addition, at the AGM held in 2013, an ordinary 
resolution was approved which grants the directors 
the authority to continue to offer the scrip dividend 
alternative. In accordance with the requirements of 
investor protection committees, this authority is 
renewed every five years. 
Powers in relation to the Company buying back 
its shares 
The Company may only buy back shares if the 
Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it has 
received the requisite authority from shareholders in 
general meeting. Although the Articles do not contain 
any such prohibition, the Company did not request 
any such authority at its last AGM and does not 
propose to do so at the forthcoming AGM. 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
109
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Change of control 
The Company has entered into certain agreements 
that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. The significant agreements in this 
respect are: 
• The Company’s £30m term facility agreement 
dated 11 January 2013 entered into with Lloyds 
TSB Bank plc; 
• The Company’s £380m revolving credit facility 
dated 22 April 2015 entered into with HSBC Bank 
plc, Lloyds Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc, Abbey National Treasury Services plc, 
Barclays Bank PLC and National Westminster 
Bank plc (together with the £30m facility 
agreement, ‘the Facility Agreements’);
• The Company’s £45m and US$28m note 
purchase agreement dated 20 December 2012 
(‘the 2012 Note Purchase Agreement’);
• The Company’s £47m and US$116m note purchase 
agreement dated 20 November 2014 (together 
with the 2012 Note Purchase Agreement, 'the 
Note Purchase Agreements’); and 
• Certain of the Group’s employee share schemes. 
Each of the Facility Agreements includes a provision 
under which, in the event of a change of control 
of the Company, the lenders may cancel all or any 
part of the relevant facility and/or declare that all 
amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are 
immediately due and payable by the Company. 
Each of the Note Purchase Agreements includes 
a provision under which, in the event of a change 
of control of the Company, the Company is obliged 
to offer to prepay the notes issued pursuant to 
the agreement. 
Outstanding options granted under the SAYE Scheme 
and the May Gurney Integrated Services PLC Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme 2007 may be exercised 
within a period of six months from a change of control 
of the Company following a takeover bid (or will lapse 
upon the expiry of such a period). 
Awards granted under the Group’s long-term 
incentive plan (which is described in the 
Remuneration Report) may vest on a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid and 
the maximum number of shares in the Company to 
be awarded upon such vesting may become 
immediately due. 
There are no agreements between the Company and 
its directors providing for compensation for loss of 
office that occurs as a result of a takeover bid. 
Branches 
Because the Group is a global business, it 
has activities operated through branches in 
certain jurisdictions. 
Auditor
The Board has decided that PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP will be proposed as the Group’s auditor for the 
financial year ending 30 June 2016 and a resolution 
relating to this appointment will be tabled at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Each director who holds office at the date of approval 
of this Directors’ Report confirms that, so far as each 
such director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditor is unaware; and the 
directors have taken all the steps that they ought to 
have taken as directors to make themselves aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the auditor is aware of that information. 
AGM 
The Company’s 2015 AGM will be held at 12 noon on 
12 November 2015 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool 
Street, London, EC2M 7QN. 
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board on 
16 September 2015 and signed on its behalf by: 
Hugh Raven  
Company Secretary 
Tempsford Hall  
Sandy  
Bedfordshire  
SG19 2BD
Corporate governance
Directors’ Report continued 
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
110 Introduction
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report and the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare the 
Group and parent company financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law, they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’) 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(‘UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice’). 
Under company law, the directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company 
financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
• Make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
• For the Group financial statements, state whether 
they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
as adopted by the EU; 
• For the parent company financial statements, 
state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; and 
• Prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Group and the parent company 
will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the parent company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors 
are also responsible for preparing a directors’ report, 
a directors’ remuneration report and a corporate 
governance statement that comply with that law and 
those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
Each of the directors of Kier Group plc, whose names 
and functions are set out on pages 64 to 66 (inclusive), 
confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: 
• The financial statements contained in this annual 
report and accounts, prepared in accordance with 
the applicable set of accounting standards, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation as a whole; 
• The management report contained in this annual 
report and accounts includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face; 
and
• This annual report and accounts taken as a whole 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board by: 
 
Haydn Mursell Bev Dew 
Chief Executive Finance Director
Corporate governance
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
111
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
112
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Kier Group plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Kier Group plc’s Group financial statements and parent 
company financial statements (‘the financial statements’) give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Group’s profit 
and cash flows for the year then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
• The parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Kier Group plc’s financial statements comprise:
• The Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2015;
• The Company balance sheet as at 30 June 2015;
• The Consolidated income statement and Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• The Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• The Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
• The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope
Areas of
focus
Materiality
• Overall Group materiality: £4.3m which represents 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding  
non-underlying items. 
• We conducted audit work across all four of the Group’s divisions, and paid particular attention to the accounting 
for the acquisition on 8 June 2015 of Mouchel. The divisions where we performed our audit work accounted for 
95% of Group revenues.
• Acquisition accounting for Mouchel.
• Valuation of land and properties.
• Accounting for long-term contracts – including profit recognition, work in progress and provisioning.
• Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit.
• Assessment of carrying value of goodwill.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented 
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be 
read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
113
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition accounting for Mouchel
Refer to page 80 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 123 (significant accounting policies) and page 158 (notes).
The Group acquired Mouchel on 8 June 2015 for £260.6m 
consideration, funded through a rights issue. Accounting for 
the acquisition required a fair value exercise to assess the 
assets and liabilities acquired, including valuing any separately 
identifiable intangible assets, both of which can be a particularly 
subjective process.
Fair value adjustments
Management recorded £15.1m of fair value adjustment provisions 
following its analysis of net assets acquired. These reflect its best 
estimate of certain exposures in Mouchel identified during the due 
diligence process that were not previously recognised in the 
balance sheet.
Valuation of identifiable intangibles
Management identified £141.0m of intangible assets in respect of 
Mouchel’s customer contracts, based on the work performed by an 
external expert.
The value of these is calculated by discounting the income stream 
from Mouchel’s contractual customers.
The determination of the discount rate applied to the contractual 
customer income was particularly judgemental, as it requires the 
calculation of a risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital. 
Fair value adjustments
We assessed the completeness and quantum of adjustments 
made by management against our own expectations, formed from 
review of the due diligence reports prepared during the acquisition.
We determined that management’s analysis appropriately reflects 
the fair value exercise based on our understanding of Mouchel’s 
particular circumstances and our knowledge and experience of 
the industry.
Valuation of identifiable intangible assets
We reviewed the work performed on the purchase price allocation 
by management’s external expert. 
In doing so we evaluated the professional competence and 
objectivity of that expert and challenged the following:
• In relation to the customer contracts, we obtained third-party 
documentation for significant contracts and checked that 
these were either existing agreements or sufficiently firm 
future orders.
• We challenged senior operational, commercial and financial 
management on the contract assumptions and judgements, 
such as profitability, claims and cash flow timings, used to 
determine the carrying amount of the fair value adjustments.
• We sensitised the discount rate and other key inputs and 
assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that would 
be required for the fair value to be materially misstated.
Based on the work done we have determined that the relevant 
intangible assets had been identified and valued appropriately.
Valuation of land and properties
Refer to page 80 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 126 (significant accounting policies) and page 146 (notes).
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value 
(ie the forecast selling price less the remaining costs to build and 
sell). An assessment of the net realisable value of inventory is 
carried out at each balance sheet date and is dependent upon 
management’s estimate of forecast selling prices and build costs 
(by reference to current prices), which may require significant 
judgement. 
The Group holds inventory of £284m within the Residential 
division, which comprises the Group’s land held for residential 
development (£117m) and residential work in progress (£167m) 
where building work has commenced.
We focused our work on those sites where there is no immediate 
intention of development as there is a risk that they are valued 
above their recoverable amount. Therefore a change in the Group’s 
forecast estimate of sales price and build cost could have a 
material impact on the carrying value of inventories in the Group’s 
financial statements.
We reviewed the property-specific development appraisals 
supporting the carrying values and challenged the key assumptions 
underlying these appraisals as follows:
• We reviewed management’s expected build cost per square foot 
by comparing to the build costs for similar units on other sites 
and where there were differences, validating explanations 
against third-party confirmations including quantity surveyor 
cost estimates, correspondence with suppliers or comparable 
properties on other sites;
• We challenged management on their intention to develop these 
sites; and
• We challenged management’s forecast sales prices to 
supporting third-party evidence from management’s external 
sales agents and by comparing the forecast sales price of a 
sample of sales prices achieved and the list prices of comparable 
assets as published by estate agents.
We did not encounter any issues through our audit procedures that 
indicated the land or properties tested were impaired. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
114
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for long-term contracts – including profit 
recognition, work in progress and provisioning
Refer to page 81 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report) 
and page 124 (significant accounting policies).
The Group has significant long-term contracts in both the 
Construction and Services divisions. The recognition of profit on 
construction and long-term services contracts in accordance with 
IAS11 is based on the stage of completion of contract activity. 
This is assessed by reference to the proportion of contract costs 
incurred for the work performed at the balance sheet date relative 
to the estimated total costs of the contract at completion.
Profit on contracts is a significant risk for our audit because of the 
judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast 
costs and revenue on contracts. An error in the contract forecast 
could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss 
recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
These judgements include the expected recovery of costs arising 
from the following: variations to the contract requested by the 
customer, compensation events, and claims made against the 
contractor for delays or other additional costs for which the 
customer is liable. The inclusion of these amounts in the contract 
forecast where they are not recoverable could result in a material 
error in the level of profit or loss recognised by the Group.
We focused our work on those contracts with the greatest 
estimation uncertainty over the final contract values and therefore 
profit outcome. These in particular included the forecast positions 
on major infrastructure projects such as Crossrail in the UK and 
MTR in Hong Kong.
We challenged the judgements applied in management’s forecasts, 
in particular the key assumptions, which included the expected 
recovery of variations, claims and compensation events included in 
the forecast, and the historical financial performance and forecast 
out-turn against budget of other contracts of a similar nature and 
size and industry knowledge.
We inspected correspondence and meeting minutes with 
customers concerning variations, claims and compensation events, 
and obtained third-party assessments of these from legal or 
technical experts contracted by the Group, if applicable, to assess 
whether this information was consistent with the estimates made.
We inspected selected signed contracts for key clauses to identify 
relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing of cost 
overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual damages 
and success fees and assess whether these key clauses have 
been appropriately reflected in the amounts included in the forecasts.
We inspected correspondence with insurers relating to recognised 
insurance claims as well as assessments of these undertaken by 
the insurers and Group’s legal experts where applicable to assess 
whether this information supported the position taken on the contract.
We did not identify any issues where the judgements made were 
materially inappropriate.
Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit
Refer to page 81 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 124 (significant accounting policies) and page 131 (notes).
In order to give a better understanding of the underlying 
performance of the business, management has presented a view 
of the underlying results of the Group, with separate disclosure of 
‘non-underlying items’ consisting of the following:
• £8.4m of restructuring charges relating to a significant internal 
reorganisation and post-acquisition integration costs;
• £13.5m of acquisition costs relating to Mouchel;
• £6.3m in respect of the closure of the Kier Group Pension Scheme;
• £3.4m relating to the disposal of Fleet & Passenger Services;
• £14.8m of intangible amortisation and discount unwind on 
acquired businesses; and
• £22.9m in respect of the write-down of the UK mining business 
held for sale, presented in discontinued operations. 
The determination of which items are classified as ‘non-underlying’ 
is subject to judgement and therefore users of the accounts 
could be misled if amounts are not classified appropriately 
or presented consistently.
We also considered the risk of one-off gains during the year not 
being properly identified and therefore presented inappropriately 
within underlying profit.
We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made 
to statutory profit before tax to derive underlying performance. 
In order to do this we considered:
• The Group’s accounting policy on exceptional and non-
underlying items;
• The application of IFRS, in particular IAS1; and
• Recent pronouncements by the Financial Reporting Council on 
this matter, particularly the Practice Note issued in December 2013.
We challenged management on the appropriateness of the 
classification of each item, being mindful that classification 
should be balanced between gains and losses, the basis for the 
classification clearly disclosed and applied consistently from one 
year to the next.
Our work highlighted certain items that management had classified 
as non-underlying which we considered to be more judgemental 
than others. These included the restructuring charges of £8.4m. 
Having assessed the nature of the individual components of the 
restructuring charges, we were satisfied with their presentation 
as non-underlying.
We assessed the nature of certain material non-recurring gains 
during the year impacting underlying profit before tax and challenged 
management as to whether these should be identified within 
non-underlying items. The key judgement in this area surrounds the 
recognition of profit on disposal of certain property development 
transactions and joint ventures. We have accepted management’s 
viewpoint that these are normal property transactions consistent 
with underlying activity of a property development business.
Having considered the nature and quantum of these items, overall 
we were satisfied that the presentation of non-underlying and 
exceptional items in the financial statements for the year ended 
30 June 2015 is materially appropriate.
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Kier Group plc continued Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
115
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Assessment of carrying value of goodwill
Refer to page 81 (Risk Management and Audit Committee Report), 
page 124 (significant accounting policies) and page 141 (notes).
As detailed in note 12 of the financial statements, the Group’s 
key cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) are Construction, Services, 
Residential and Property. The majority of the Group’s goodwill is 
in relation to the acquisition of Mouchel (£301.3m) in June 2015 
and May Gurney (£194.7m) in August 2013. The majority (97%) of 
goodwill recognised from the acquisition of May Gurney is allocated 
to the Services CGU with the remainder (3%) allocated to the 
Construction CGU. We considered the carrying value of goodwill 
recognised in respect of Mouchel as part of our work on the 
acquisition, although due to the timing of the transaction, this 
was not considered a risk of impairment. 
Management tests goodwill for impairment annually, with reference 
to value in use which is measured by the present value of the cash 
flow forecasts expected to be derived by the respective CGUs.
The services industry continues to experience challenging margins 
due to increased costs and more competitive pricing in the market. 
Therefore there is a risk that sufficient cash flows will not be 
generated within the Services CGU to support the carrying amount 
of goodwill. Due to its size, we did not consider the Construction, 
Property or Residential CGUs to be areas of significant focus.
As part of our audit procedures, we corroborated the justification  
of the CGUs defined by management, particularly Services, by 
reviewing the financial information that management uses to 
measure the performance of that business. We also tested the 
principles and integrity of the Group’s discounted cash flow model 
that supports the value in use of the CGUs in order to satisfy 
ourselves that the methodology applied in the annual impairment 
assessments was in line with the requirements of IAS36, and that 
the assumptions underpinning the model were appropriate. 
More specifically, we challenged:
• We agreed key inputs such as contract margin and profitability 
to underlying agreements, our knowledge of the Group and 
industry and historical outcomes.
• We assessed the other key assumptions management applied 
in these models (discount rate, growth rate and inflation), 
remaining sceptical of explanations and obtaining supporting 
evidence for key assertions, including comparing to available 
external data where available.
• We also reviewed management’s sensitivity analysis and 
considered further realistic sensitivity to all key assumptions 
and underlying cash flows.
We did not identify any issues with management’s key assumptions 
based on our review of supporting evidence, management’s and 
our own sensitivity analyses performed.
There was significant headroom calculated by management over 
the carrying amount of the Services CGU, and therefore we were 
satisfied that the goodwill is not impaired.
We also tested whether the disclosures were in line with applicable 
accounting standards and no issues were identified.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as 
a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured across four divisions, being Property, Residential, Construction and Services (including Mouchel). The Group 
financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the four divisions, together with its central services function.
Due to the timing of the acquisition, Mouchel did not significantly impact the Group’s underlying profit before tax. We therefore focused 
our audit procedures on the balance sheet, which was largely addressed through our work on the accounting for the acquisition. 
As the majority of the Group’s revenues, trading profits and operating assets are in companies incorporated in the UK, we are satisfied 
that we obtain appropriate audit coverage over the Group’s Income statement, Balance sheet and Cash flow statement through our 
statutory audit work on the UK companies, which is performed at the same time as the audit of the Group. The divisions where we 
performed our audit work accounted for 95% of the Group’s revenues.
In addition, we performed specified audit procedures in the Construction International businesses in Hong Kong, Dubai and Jamaica 
where our work was focused on particular material contracts where we determined there to be heightened risk of material misstatement. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
116
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £4.3m
How we determined it 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items, as defined by management  
in Note 1 to the financial statements.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% 
of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items. We believe that underlying profit 
before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of 
exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.2m as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to 
remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and 
parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as set out on page 63 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the annual report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• The statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’), that they consider the annual report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members 
to assess the Group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and strategy is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
• The section of the annual report on page 76, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Kier Group plc continued Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
117
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been 
prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements 
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and
• The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Hook (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
16 September 2015 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
118
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 June 2015
2015 2014
2
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying 
items
 (note 4)
£m
Total 
£m
Underlying 
items
1
 £m
Non-
underlying 
items
 (note 4)
£m
Total
 £m
Continuing operations
Revenue
Group and share of joint ventures 2 3,351.2 – 3,351.2 2,937.8 – 2,937.8
Less share of joint ventures 2 (75.3) – (75.3) (30.9) – (30.9)
Group revenue 3,275.9 – 3,275.9 2,906.9 – 2,906.9
Cost of sales (2,993.0) – (2,993.0) (2,653.0) (3.5) (2,656.5)
Gross profit/(loss) 282.9 – 282.9 253.9 (3.5) 250.4
Administrative expenses (201.9) (42.8) (244.7) (174.3) (49.5) (223.8)
Share of post-tax results of 
joint ventures 14 7.9 – 7.9 1.6 – 1.6
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 30e 14.8 – 14.8 6.1 – 6.1
Profit/(loss) from operations 2 103.7 (42.8) 60.9 87.3 (53.0) 34.3
Finance income 5 1.7 – 1.7 2.2 – 2.2
Finance costs 5 (19.5) (3.6) (23.1) (15.8) (5.3) (21.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax 2 85.9 (46.4) 39.5 73.7 (58.3) 15.4
Taxation 9a (16.9) 6.9 (10.0) (13.5) 9.8 (3.7)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations 69.0 (39.5) 29.5 60.2 (48.5) 11.7
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued 
operations (attributable to equity 
holders of the parent company) 19 (2.2) (21.8) (24.0) (1.0) – (1.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 66.8 (61.3) 5.5 59.2 (48.5) 10.7
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 65.7 (61.3) 4.4 58.5 (48.5) 10.0
Non-controlling interests 1.1 – 1.1 0.7 – 0.7
66.8 (61.3) 5.5 59.2 (48.5) 10.7
Basic earnings per share
 – From continuing operations 11 96.0p (55.8)p 40.2p 87.5p
3
(71.3)p
3
16.2p
3
 – From discontinued operations 11 (3.1)p (30.8)p (33.9)p (1.5)p
3
– (1.5)p
3
Diluted earnings per share
 – From continuing operations 11 95.6p (55.6)p 40.0p 86.9p
3
(70.8)p
3
16.1p
3
 – From discontinued operations 11 (3.1)p (30.8)p (33.9)p (1.5)p
3
– (1.5)p
3
1
 Stated before non-underlying items (see note 4). 
2
 Represented to classify the Group’s UK mining activities as discontinued (see note 19).
3
 Restated to reflect the impact of the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction (see note 24). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
119
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Notes
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 5.5 10.7
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Share of joint venture fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 14 0.7 15.1
Deferred tax on share of joint venture fair value movements on cash flow 
hedging instruments 9c (0.2) (3.6)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 0.2 (1.7)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 9c – 0.3
Foreign exchange losses on long-term funding of foreign operations 0.9 –
Foreign exchange translation differences (0.2) (4.0)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 1.4 6.1
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Re-measurement of defined benefit liabilities 8 (34.0) (18.7)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit liabilities 9c 6.8 (4.9)
Deferred tax on provisions 9c – (1.9)
Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement (27.2) (25.5)
Other comprehensive loss for the year (25.8) (19.4)
Total comprehensive loss for the year (20.3) (8.7)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of parent (21.4) (9.4)
Non-controlling interests – continuing operations 1.1 0.7
  (20.3) (8.7)
Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders arises from:
Continuing operations 2.6 (8.4)
Discontinued operations (24.0) (1.0)
  (21.4) (9.4) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
120
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2015
Share 
capital
£m 
Share
premium 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
 £m
Retained 
earnings
 £m
Cash flow 
hedge
 reserve 
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Attributable 
to owners of
 the parent 
£m
 Non-
controlling
interests 
£m
Total
 equity 
£m
At 30 June 2013 0.4 63.3 2.7 102.0 (13.0) 0.4 – 155.8 2.5 158.3
Profit for the year – – – 10.0 – – – 10.0 0.7 10.7
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – (25.5) 10.1 (4.0) – (19.4) – (19.4)
Dividends paid – – – (37.3) – – – (37.3) (0.2) (37.5)
Issue of own shares 0.2 10.4 – – – – 183.6 194.2 – 194.2
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.1) – – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Share-based payments – – – 4.0 – – – 4.0 – 4.0
Tax on share-based 
payments – – – 0.5 – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Transfers – – – (1.2) – – 1.2 – – –
At 30 June 2014 0.6 73.7 2.7 51.4 (2.9) (3.6) 184.8 306.7 3.0 309.7
Profit for the year – – – 4.4 – – – 4.4 1.1 5.5
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – (27.2) 0.7 0.7 – (25.8) – (25.8)
Dividends paid – – – (40.2) – – – (40.2) (2.3) (42.5)
Issue of own shares 0.4 334.8 – – – – – 335.2 – 335.2
Share-based payments – – – 3.4 – – – 3.4 – 3.4
Tax on share-based 
payments – – – (0.1) – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Transfers
1
– – – 50.0 – – (50.0) – – – 
At 30 June 2015 1.0 408.5 2.7 41.7 (2.2) (2.9) 134.8 583.6 1.8 585.4
1
 See note 9 to the Company only accounts on page 163. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
121
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Consolidated balance sheet 
At 30 June 2015
 Notes
2015 
£m
2014
1
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 776.7 323.8
Property, plant and equipment 13 121.2 192.4
Investments in and loans to joint ventures 14 79.4 40.9
Deferred tax assets 15 11.3 1.8
Trade and other receivables 18 31.4 23.5
Non-current assets 1,020.0 582.4
Current assets
Inventories 16 737.8 470.4
Trade and other receivables 18 535.3 586.4
Corporation tax receivable – 7.5
Cash and cash equivalents 20 254.0 112.4
Current assets 1,527.1 1,176.7
Assets held for sale as part of a disposal group 19 193.9 72.8
Total assets 2,741.0 1,831.9
Current liabilities
Overdraft 20 – (39.8)
Finance lease obligations 21 (14.9) (27.6)
Other financial liabilities 27 – (0.1)
Trade and other payables 22 (1,314.3) (982.7)
Corporation tax payable (12.7) –
Provisions 23 (13.1) (27.9)
Current liabilities (1,355.0) (1,078.1)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (394.8) (195.4)
Finance lease obligations 21 (25.7) (59.4)
Other financial liabilities 27 (1.5) (2.0)
Trade and other payables 22 (11.4) (9.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (153.6) (59.8)
Provisions 23 (45.6) (55.8)
Non-current liabilities (632.6) (381.7)
Liabilities held for sale as part of a disposal group 19 (168.0) (62.4)
Total liabilities (2,155.6) (1,522.2)
Net assets 2 585.4 309.7
Equity
Share capital 24 1.0 0.6
Share premium 408.5 73.7
Capital redemption reserve 2.7 2.7
Retained earnings 41.7 51.4
Cash flow hedge reserve 24 (2.2) (2.9)
Translation reserve 24 (2.9) (3.6)
Merger reserve 24 134.8 184.8
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 583.6 306.7
Non-controlling interests 1.8 3.0
Total equity 585.4 309.7
1 
Represented to disclose assets held for sale separately as assets held for sale as part of a disposal group and liabilities held for sale as part of a disposal group 
(see note 19).
The financial statements on pages 118 to 160 were approved by the Board of directors on 16 September 2015 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
 Haydn Mursell Bev Dew 
 Director Director Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
122
 Notes
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit before tax including discontinued operations 13.7 14.8
Non-underlying items 4 54.5 42.2
Net finance cost 5 21.4 20.2
Share of post-tax trading results of joint ventures 14 (7.9) (1.6)
Normal cash contributions to pension fund (less than)/in excess of pension charge (0.1) 1.3
Equity settled share-based payments charge 25 3.4 4.0
Negative goodwill recognised, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 13.6 10.8
Other non-cash items (4.6) – 
Depreciation charges 13 28.9 41.5
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 30e (14.8) (6.1)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.1 (4.5)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 110.2 122.6
Special contributions to pension fund (18.7) (8.0)
Increase in inventories (205.5) (7.0)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 88.0 (156.3)
Increase in payables 192.8 96.3
Decrease in provisions (28.3) (31.7)
Cash inflow from operating activities before non-underlying items 138.5 15.9
Cash outflow from non-underlying items (18.8) (35.6)
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 119.7 (19.7)
Dividends received from joint ventures 14 3.5 0.3
Interest received 1.7 2.2
Income taxes (paid)/received (3.5) 11.3
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 121.4 (5.9)
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.0 6.0
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures 30e 13.9 17.3
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (19.8) (48.2)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (22.6) (6.2)
Net investment in assets held for resale (12.6) (4.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 30a (262.6) (65.6)
Investment in joint ventures (35.6) (11.7)
Cash/(overdraft) acquired 30b 32.2 (16.8)
Net cash used in investing activities before non-underlying disposal proceeds (305.1) (129.2)
Non-underlying proceeds on disposal of plant business net of disposal costs – 4.2
Net cash used in investing activities (305.1) (125.0)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Issue of shares 24 334.1 2.2
Purchase of own shares – (1.1)
Interest paid (15.6) (14.2)
Cash outflow incurred raising finance (2.6) –
Inflow from finance leases on property, plant and equipment 21 16.9 40.3
Inflow from new borrowings 199.9 102.9
Finance lease repayments 21 (32.2) (29.6)
Repayment of borrowings (94.0) (20.0)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (39.1) (29.1)
Dividends paid to minority interests (2.3) (0.2)
Net cash generated by financing activities 365.1 51.2
Increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and overdraft 181.4 (79.7)
Opening cash, cash equivalents and overdraft 72.6 152.3
Closing cash, cash equivalents and overdraft 20 254.0 72.6
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 30 June 2015 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
123
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015
1 Significant accounting policies
Kier Group plc (‘the Company’) is a company domiciled in the 
United Kingdom (‘UK’) and incorporated in England and Wales. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 June 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as ‘the Group’) and the Group’s interest in 
joint arrangements.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the 
directors on 16 September 2015.
Statement of compliance
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
and approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(‘IFRS’) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Group has 
applied all accounting standards issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and interpretations issued 
by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
as adopted by the European Union and effective for accounting 
periods beginning on 1 July 2014.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (‘GAAP’). These are presented on pages 161 to 163.
Basis of preparation
The Group has considerable financial resources, long-term 
contracts and a diverse range of customers and suppliers across 
its business activities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Group’s financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling. They 
have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for 
derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
The following new standards and amendments to standards are 
effective for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 onwards:
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IAS36 Impairment of Assets (Recoverable amount 
disclosures for non-financial assets)
The following new standards and amendments to standards 
have been issued, and will take effect for periods starting after 
1 January 2018 and 1 January 2017 respectively: 
IFRS9 Financial Instruments
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The directors are considering the impact of these new standards 
and interpretations in future periods. 
IFRS15 will replace IAS18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS11 ‘Construction 
Contracts’. It will become effective for accounting periods on or 
after 1 January 2017 at the earliest and will therefore be applied 
for the first time to the Group accounts in 30 June 2018; the IASB 
has indicated that early adoption will be permitted. The Group has 
begun a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure 
that the impact and effect of the new standard is fully understood 
and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted 
and acted upon in advance of the effective date.
Other than the impact of IFRS15 as noted above, no significant 
net impact from the adoption of these new standards is expected. 
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards 
and interpretations earlier than required.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in 
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Group’s financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the 
Company drawn up to 30 June 2015. Control exists when the 
Group has direct or indirect power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefits 
from its activities. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control transfers to the 
Group until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern 
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group 
takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently 
are exercisable.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest 
in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; 
any gains or losses arising from such re-measurements are 
recognised in profit or loss.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures 
goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
• The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree; plus
• If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value 
of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
• The net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the result is negative, a ‘bargain purchase’ gain is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised 
within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to 
the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are 
generally recognised in the income statement. Costs related to the 
acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or 
equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a 
business combination are expensed as incurred. Any contingent 
consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in the income statement unless the 
contingent consideration is classified as equity, in which case 
settlement is accounted for within reserves. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary 
to ensure consistency with those used by the Group. All intra-Group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
(b) Joint arrangements
A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the 
Group undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint 
control with third parties.
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of the 
profits less losses of jointly controlled entities is included in the 
consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets 
is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet. 
Where the share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the 
entity and there is no obligation to fund these losses the carrying 
amount is reduced to nil, following which no further losses are 
recognised. Interest in the entity is the carrying amount of the 
investment together with any long-term interests that, in 
substance, form part of the net investment in the entity.
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with 
other parties. These fall under the category of joint operations as 
defined by IFRS11. In accordance with IFRS11, the Group accounts 
for its own share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows 
measured according to the terms of the agreements.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
consideration over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment 
at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Negative 
goodwill is recognised in the income statement immediately. On 
disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable 
carrying amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the 
profit or loss on disposal. 
Other intangible assets which comprise contract rights and 
computer software are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to 
administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the expected useful lives of the assets, which are 
principally as follows:
Contract rights  Over the remaining contract life
Computer software  3–7 years
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are 
recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
• an asset is created that can be identified;
• it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic benefits; and
• the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which 
it is incurred.
Non-underlying items
1
Certain items are presented separately in the consolidated income 
statement as non-underlying items where, in the judgement of the 
directors, they need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their 
nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent 
presentation of the Group’s underlying business performance.
Examples of material items which may give rise to disclosure as 
non-underlying items include gains or losses on the disposal of 
businesses, costs of restructuring and reorganisation of existing 
businesses, integration of newly acquired businesses, asset 
impairments and acquisition transaction costs. They also include 
reclassification of provisions in respect of such items.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is also treated as a 
non-underlying item so that the underlying profit of the Group can 
be measured on a comparable basis from period to period. 
These are examples, and from time to time it may be appropriate 
to disclose further items as non-underlying in order to highlight the 
underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying operating profit is one of the key measures used by the 
Board to monitor the Group’s performance.
1
 Exceptional items.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. It also includes the Group’s 
proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
(a) Construction contracts
Revenue arises from increases in valuations on contracts and is 
normally determined by external valuations. It is the gross value of 
work carried out for the period to the balance sheet date (including 
retentions) but excludes claims until they are actually certified.
Profit on contracts is calculated in accordance with accounting 
standards and industry practice. Industry practice is to assess the 
estimated final outcome of each contract and recognise the profit 
based upon the percentage of completion of the contract at the 
relevant date. The assessment of the final outcome of each 
contract is determined by regular review of the revenues and costs 
to complete that contract. Consistent contract review procedures 
are in place in respect of contract forecasting.
The general principles for profit recognition are as follows:
• Profits on short duration contracts are taken when the contract 
is complete;
• Profits on other contracts are recognised on a percentage of 
completion basis when the contract’s outcome can be 
estimated reliably;
• Provision is made for losses incurred or foreseen in bringing 
the contract to completion as soon as they become apparent;
• Claims receivable are recognised as income when received 
or certified for payment, except that in preparing contract 
forecasts to completion, a prudent and reasonable evaluation 
of claims receivable may be included to mitigate foreseeable 
losses and only to the extent that there is reasonable certainty 
of recovery; and
• Variations and compensation events are included in forecasts 
to completion when it is considered highly probable that they 
will be recovered. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
125
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Percentage completion is normally calculated by taking certified 
value to date as a percentage of estimated final value, unless the 
internal value is materially different to the certified value, in which 
case the internal value is used.
(b) Services
Revenue and profit from services rendered, which include facilities 
management, street cleaning and recycling, is recognised as and 
when the service is provided.
Where revenue that has been recognised is found not to be 
recoverable due to a dispute with the client, these amounts are 
charged against the revenue recognised. Where non-recovery is 
as a result of inability of a client to meet its obligations, these 
amounts are charged to administrative expenses.
Unbilled revenue is the difference between the revenue recognised 
and the amounts actually invoiced to customers. Where invoicing 
exceeds the amount of revenue recognised these amounts are 
included in deferred income.
(c) Private housing and land sales
Revenue from housing sales is recognised at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable on legal completion, net of 
incentives. Revenue from land sales and land exchanges is 
recognised on the unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is 
recognised on a site-by-site basis by reference to the expected 
out-turn result from each site. The principal estimation technique 
used by the Group in attributing profit on sites to a particular 
period is the preparation of forecasts on a site-by-site basis. 
These focus on revenues and costs to complete and enable an 
assessment to be made of the final out-turn on each site. 
Consistent review procedures are in place in respect of site 
forecasting. Provision is made for any losses foreseen in 
completing a site as soon as they become apparent.
(d) Property development
Revenue in respect of property developments is taken on 
unconditional exchange of contracts on disposal of finished 
developments. Profit taken is subject to any amounts necessary to 
cover residual commitments relating to development performance. 
Provision is made for any losses foreseen in completing a 
development as soon as they become apparent.
Where developments are sold in advance of construction being 
completed, revenue and profit are recognised from the point of 
sale and as the significant outstanding acts of construction and 
development are completed. If a development is sold in advance 
of the commencement of construction, no revenue or profit is 
recognised at the point of sale. Revenue and profit are recognised 
in line with the progress on construction, based on the percentage 
completion of the construction and development work. If a 
development is sold during construction but prior to completion, 
revenue and profit are recognised at the time of sale in line with 
the percentage completion of the construction and development 
works at the time of sale and thereafter in line with the percentage 
of completion of the construction and development works.
(e) Private Finance Initiative (‘PFI’) service 
concession agreements
Revenue relating to construction or upgrade services under a 
service concession agreement is recognised based on the stage 
of completion of the work performed, consistent with the Group’s 
accounting policy on recognising revenue on construction contracts 
(see above). Operation or service revenue is recognised in the 
period in which the services were provided by the Group. When 
the Group provides more than one service in a service concession 
agreement, the consideration received is allocated by reference 
to the relative fair values of the services delivered.
Pre-contract costs
Costs associated with bidding for contracts are written off as 
incurred (pre-contract costs). When it is probable that a contract 
will be awarded, usually when the Group has secured preferred 
bidder status, costs incurred from that date to the date of financial 
close are carried forward in the balance sheet as other receivables.
When financial close is achieved on PFI or Public Private 
Partnership (‘PPP’) contracts, costs are recovered from the special 
purpose vehicle and pre-contract costs within this recovery that 
were not previously capitalised are credited to the income 
statement, except to the extent that the Group retains a share in 
the special purpose vehicle. The amount not credited is deferred 
and recognised over the life of the construction contract to which 
the costs relate.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Depreciation is based on historical or deemed cost, including 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
items, less the estimated residual value, and the estimated 
economic lives of the assets concerned. Freehold land is not 
depreciated. Other tangible assets are depreciated to residual 
values in equal annual instalments over the period of their 
estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows:
Freehold land and buildings 25–50 years
Leasehold buildings and improvements Period of lease
Plant and equipment (including vehicles) 3–12 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter 
of the term of the lease or the expected useful life of the asset.
Leases
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. On initial recognition the leased asset is measured at an 
amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy 
applicable to that asset.
Other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the life of each lease.
Employee benefits
(a) Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution pension schemes operated by the Group, 
amounts payable are charged to the income statement as they 
fall due.
The Group accounts for defined benefit obligations in accordance 
with IAS19 (Revised). Obligations are measured at discounted 
present value while plan assets are measured at fair value. The 
operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised 
separately in the income statement; current service costs are 
spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing 
costs are recognised in full in the period in which they arise. 
Re-measurements of the net defined pension liability, including 
actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in other 
comprehensive income. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued
The net finance cost is calculated by applying the discount rate 
to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair 
value of plan assets. This cost is included in finance costs in the 
income statement.
Where the calculations result in a surplus to the Group, the 
recognised asset is limited to the present value of any available 
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan.
(b) Share-based payments
Share-based payments granted but not vested are valued at the 
fair value of the shares at the date of grant. This affects the 
Sharesave and Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) schemes. The fair 
value of these schemes at the date of award is calculated using 
the Black-Scholes model apart from the total shareholder return 
element of the LTIP which is based on a stochastic model.
The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP 
scheme is spread on a straight-line basis over the relevant 
performance period. The scheme awards to senior employees a 
number of shares which will vest after three years if particular 
criteria are met. The cost of the scheme is based on the fair value 
of the shares at the date the options are granted. 
Shares purchased and held in trust in connection with the Group’s 
share schemes are deducted from retained earnings. No gain or 
loss is recognised within the income statement on the market 
value of these shares compared with the original cost.
Finance income and costs
Interest receivable and payable on bank balances is credited or 
charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective 
interest rate method.
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the Group constructs 
qualifying assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the 
income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs incurred within the Group’s jointly controlled 
entities relating to the construction of assets in PFI and PPP 
projects are capitalised until the relevant assets are brought 
into operational use.
Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the 
discount on long-term liabilities, is charged to finance costs.
Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is 
recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is 
recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the 
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method, providing 
for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. The deferred tax provision is based on 
the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the 
exchange rates in effect when they take place. Resulting foreign 
currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated at 
the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences arising from foreign currency transactions are reflected 
in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Trading profits or losses are translated at average rates prevailing 
during the accounting period. Differences on exchange arising from 
the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary 
undertakings at the year-end rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. All other translation differences are 
reflected in the income statement.
Mining assets
Opencast expenditure incurred prior to the commencement of 
operating an opencast site is capitalised and the cost less the 
residual value is depreciated over the ‘coaling life’ of the site on 
a coal extraction basis.
The cost of restoration is recognised as a provision as soon as the 
restoration liability arises. The amount provided represents the 
present value of the anticipated costs. Costs are charged against 
the provision as incurred and the unwinding of the discount is 
included within finance costs. A tangible asset is created for an 
amount equivalent to the initial provision and depreciated on a 
coal extraction basis over the life of the asset. Where there is a 
subsequent change to the estimated restoration costs or discount 
rate, the present value of the change is recognised as a change in 
the restoration provision with a corresponding change in the cost 
of the tangible asset until the asset is fully depreciated when the 
remaining adjustment is taken to the income statement.
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of 
development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where appropriate, 
labour and production overheads which have been incurred in 
bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present 
location and condition. Cost in certain circumstances also includes 
notional interest as explained in the accounting policy for finance 
income and costs. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to 
be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Construction work in progress is included within inventories in the 
balance sheet. It is measured at cost plus profit less losses 
recognised to date less progress billings. If payments received 
from customers exceed the income recognised, the difference is 
included within trade and other payables in the balance sheet.
Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised; 
generally after exchange of unconditional contracts.
Property inventory, which represents all development land and work 
in progress, is included at cost less any losses foreseen in 
completing and disposing of the development less any amounts 
received or receivable as progress payments or part disposals. 
Where a property is being developed, cost includes cost of 
acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable 
fees, expenses and finance charges net of rental or other income 
attributable to the development. Where development property is  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
127
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
not being actively developed, net rental income and finance costs 
are taken to the income statement.
Assets held for sale
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will 
be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the 
sale is highly probable and the assets are available for sale in 
their present condition.
Share capital
The ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded as the 
proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental 
issue costs.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is 
probable that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation 
and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. The principal financial 
assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
(a) Trade receivables and trade payables
Given the varied activities of the Group it is not practicable to 
identify a common operating cycle. The Group has therefore 
allocated receivables and payables due within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date to current with the remainder included in 
non-current.
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their 
initial fair value reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are 
stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, 
particularly in respect of land purchases, are discounted and 
recorded at their present value.
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise 
cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original 
maturities of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts where 
legal right of set off exists. Bank overdrafts are included within 
financial liabilities in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
(c) Bank and other borrowings
Interest-bearing bank and other borrowings are recorded at the fair 
value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in 
the income statement using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
(d) PFI assets
Under the terms of a PFI or similar project, where the risks and 
rewards of ownership remain largely with the purchaser of the 
associated services, the Group’s interest in the asset is classified 
as a financial asset and included at its amortised cost within 
investment in joint ventures.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the 
contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured in future 
periods at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting 
change in fair value depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument and whether the hedging 
relationship is effective.
For cash flow hedges the effective part of the change in fair value 
of these derivatives is recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income. Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to 
the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will 
affect profit or loss. The fair value of interest rate derivatives is the 
estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate 
the derivatives at the balance sheet date.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the 
forecast transaction occurs.
The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge against 
transactional foreign currency exposures. In cases where these 
derivative instruments are significant, hedge accounting is applied 
as described above. Where hedge accounting is not applied, 
changes in fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income 
statement. Fair values are based on quoted market prices at the 
balance sheet date.
(f) Government grants
Government grant income is recognised at the point that there 
is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attached to it, and that the grant will be received.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources 
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
as follows:
(a) Revenue and profit recognition
The estimation techniques used for revenue and profit recognition 
in respect of property development, private housing sales, 
construction contracts and services contracts require forecasts 
to be made of the outcome of long-term contracts which require 
assessments and judgements to be made on the recovery of 
pre-contract costs, changes in the scope of work, contract 
programmes, maintenance and defects liabilities and changes 
in costs.
(b) Valuation of land and work in progress
The key judgements and estimates in determining the net 
realisable value of land and work in progress are:
• An estimation of costs to complete;
• An estimation of the remaining revenues; and
• An estimation of selling costs.
These assessments include a degree of uncertainty and therefore 
if the key judgements and estimates change unfavourably, write 
downs of land and work in progress may be necessary. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
1 Significant accounting policies continued 
(c) Determination of fair values of identifiable net assets 
on acquisitions
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the 
identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless 
the fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case the value 
is subsumed into goodwill.
(d) Defined benefit pension scheme valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme 
assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been 
made. The key assumptions, which are given below, are largely 
dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
• Expected return on plan assets;
• Inflation rate;
• Mortality;
• Discount rate; and
• Salary and pension increases.
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 8.
(e) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and 
therefore in making a reliable estimate of the amount and timing 
of liabilities judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each 
reporting date.
(f) Recoverable value of recognised receivables
The recoverability of trade and other receivables is regularly 
reviewed in the light of available economic information specific 
to each receivable and provisions are recognised for balances 
considered to be irrecoverable.
(g) Goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation 
of the value in use of CGUs to which the goodwill has been 
allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate to be 
made of the timing and amount of future cash flows expected to 
arise from the CGU and the application of a suitable discount rate 
in order to calculate the net present value. Cash flow forecasts 
for the next three years are based on the Group’s budgets and 
forecasts. Other key inputs in assessing each CGU are revenue 
growth, operating margin and discount rate. The assumptions are 
set out in note 12 together with an assessment of the impact of 
reasonably possible sensitivities.
(h) Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which 
the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. Determining 
whether an item is part of underlying or non-underlying items 
requires judgement.
A total non-underlying cost of £61.3m after tax was charged to the 
income statement for the year ended 30 June 2015.
(i) Held for sale and discontinued operations
When it is probable that businesses will be sold within one year 
and they are being actively marketed they meet the criteria to be 
classified as held for sale. Discontinued operations are businesses 
or a group of businesses which meet the criteria to be held for 
sale, have been sold or abandoned, and form a separate major line 
of business of the Group. Management judgement is applied in 
assessing the timing of sale to meet the classification criteria.
Details of assets held for sale and discontinued operations are set 
out in note 19.
(j) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and 
judgement is required in determining the overall provision for 
income taxes. The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of 
uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable 
in future periods and such provisions are based on management’s 
assessment of exposures.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided for in full and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is judged probable 
that future taxable profit will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised.
2 Segmental reporting
The Group operates four divisions: Property, Residential, 
Construction and Services, which is the basis on which the Group 
manages and reports its primary segmental information. Corporate 
includes unrecovered overheads and the charge for defined benefit 
pension schemes. 
Segmental information is based on the information provided to the 
Chief Executive, together with the board, who is the chief operating 
decision maker. The segments are strategic business units which 
have different core customers and offer different services. The 
segments are discussed in the Chief Executive’s strategic review 
on pages 6 to 10 and the divisional reviews on pages 38 to 53.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as 
those described in the summary of significant accounting policies 
on pages 123 to 128. The Group evaluates segmental information 
on the basis of profit or loss from operations before non-underlying 
items, interest and income tax expense. The segmental results 
that are reported to the Chief Executive include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
129
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
2 Segmental reporting continued
Year to 30 June 2015
Continuing operations
Property
£m
Residential
£m
Construction
£m
Services
£m
Corporate
£m
Group
£m
Revenue
1
Group and share of joint ventures 126.2 257.2 1,720.8 1,247.0 – 3,351.2
Less share of joint ventures (66.8) – (8.1) (0.4) – (75.3)
Group revenue 59.4 257.2 1,712.7 1,246.6 – 3,275.9
Profit
Group operating profit/(loss) 2.1 11.2 35.9 57.7 (25.9) 81.0
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 5.8 – 1.8 0.3 – 7.9
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 14.8 – – – – 14.8
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 22.7 11.2 37.7 58.0 (25.9) 103.7
Underlying net finance (costs)/income
2
(2.5) (11.0) 6.2 (4.6) (5.9) (17.8)
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax 20.2 0.2 43.9 53.4 (31.8) 85.9
Non-underlying items
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to 
contract rights (0.1) – (0.4) (10.7) – (11.2)
Non-underlying finance costs – – – (3.6) – (3.6)
Other non-underlying items – – (0.5) (8.0) (23.1) (31.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 20.1 0.2 43.0 31.1 (54.9) 39.5
Balance sheet
Total assets excluding cash 128.2 320.5 524.1 691.3 629.0 2,293.1
Liabilities excluding borrowings (24.7) (59.6) (719.0) (602.8) (186.7) (1,592.8)
Net operating assets/(liabilities) excluding  
assets held for sale
3
103.5 260.9 (194.9) 88.5 442.3 700.3
Cash, net of borrowings (73.9) (243.9) 288.8 (42.9) (68.9) (140.8)
Net assets excluding assets held for sale 29.6 17.0 93.9 45.6 373.4 559.5
Assets/(liabilities) held for sale 20.3 – (7.4) 13.1 (0.1) 25.9
Net assets 49.9 17.0 86.5 58.7 373.3 585.4
Other information
Inter-segmental revenue
4
1.9 – 12.2 130.7 14.0 158.8
Capital expenditure 0.1 0.3 2.2 5.9 11.3 19.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – (0.1) (6.0) (16.7) (6.1) (28.9)
Amortisation of computer software – – – (2.3) (2.5) (4.8)
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.0%.
3
 Net operating assets/(liabilities) represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
4 
Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
2 Segmental reporting continued
Year to 30 June 2014
Continuing operations
Property
5
 £m
Residential
5
£m
Construction
5,6
 £m
Services
 £m
Corporate
 £m
Group
6
 £m
Revenue
1
Group and share of joint ventures 102.2 233.2 1,498.3 1,104.1 – 2,937.8
Less share of joint ventures (24.4) – (6.5) – – (30.9)
Group revenue 77.8 233.2 1,491.8 1,104.1 – 2,906.9
Profit
Group operating profit/(loss) 9.4 7.7 29.1 53.3 (19.9) 79.6
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 0.5 – 1.1 – – 1.6
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 6.1 – – – – 6.1
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 16.0 7.7 30.2 53.3 (19.9) 87.3
Underlying net finance (costs)/income
2
(2.3) (11.1) 6.9 (4.5) (2.6) (13.6)
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax 13.7 (3.4) 37.1 48.8 (22.5) 73.7
Non-underlying items
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to 
contract rights
(0.1) – (0.4) (10.3) – (10.8)
Non-underlying finance costs (0.3) – – (5.0) – (5.3)
Other non-underlying items (2.3) (0.1) (7.8) (10.4) (21.6) (42.2)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 11.0 (3.5) 28.9 23.1 (44.1) 15.4
Balance sheet
Total assets excluding cash 137.2 299.1 540.0 432.0 238.4 1,646.7
Liabilities excluding borrowings (17.3) (44.0) (638.9) (382.0) (142.4) (1,224.6)
Net operating assets/(liabilities) excluding  
assets held for sale
3
119.9 255.1 (98.9) 50.0 96.0 422.1
Cash, net of borrowings (65.7) (238.5) 273.9 13.2 (105.7) (122.8)
Net assets/(liabilities) excluding assets  
held for sale 54.2 16.6 175.0 63.2 (9.7) 299.3
Assets held for sale 10.4 – – – – 10.4
Net assets/(liabilities) 64.6 16.6 175.0 63.2 (9.7) 309.7
Other information
Inter-segmental revenue
4
1.5 – 10.3 130.0 8.4 150.2
Capital expenditure 1.0 – 3.2 35.2 8.8 48.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (0.1) (0.1) (8.5) (29.2) (3.6) (41.5)
Amortisation of computer software – – – – (1.1) (1.1)
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.0%.
3 
Net operating assets/(liabilities) represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
4 
Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
5
 Restated to reflect the reclassification of the Property and Construction divisions into the Property, Residential and Construction divisions.
6
 Restated to reflect the classification of the UK mining operations as discontinued. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
131
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
3 Profit for the year
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.1 0.7
Other services 0.5 0.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
Owned 6.0 12.9
Finance leased 16.2 19.4
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment 2.1 (4.5)
Hire of plant and machinery 143.9 55.1
Operating lease rentals:
Land and buildings 11.2 4.7
Plant and machinery 12.7 11.6
Research and Development Expenditure Credit receivable (4.1) –
The 2014 auditor’s remuneration relate to amounts paid to KPMG LLP. The 2015 auditor’s remuneration relate to amounts paid to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
A summary of other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during the year, £0.5m, are provided on page 79 (2014: £0.9m 
was payable to KPMG LLP mainly in respect of the Group’s organisational and efficiency project).
4 Non-underlying items
1
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Continuing operations
Amortisation of intangible contract rights (11.2) (10.8)
Acquisition discount unwind (3.6) (5.3)
Other non-underlying items:
Costs relating to acquisition of the Mouchel Group (13.5) – 
Costs in relation to the preparation for and restructuring following the acquisition of the Mouchel Group (8.4) – 
Costs associated with cessation of the Kier Group final salary pension scheme (6.3) – 
Costs relating to the disposal of Fleet & Passenger Services (3.4) – 
Costs relating to acquisition of May Gurney – (8.1)
Restructuring and transformation costs following the acquisition of May Gurney – (29.6)
Construction Workers Compensation Scheme costs – (4.5)
Total other non-underlying items (31.6) (42.2)
Total non-underlying items from continuing operations (46.4) (58.3)
Associated tax credit 6.9 9.8
Charged against profit for the year from continuing operations (39.5) (48.5)
Discontinued operations
Impairment of the UK mining business to fair value less costs to sell (see note 19) (22.9) – 
Associated tax credit 1.1 – 
Non-underlying items from discontinued operations (21.8) – 
Charged against profit for the year (61.3) (48.5)
1
 Exceptional items. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
4 Non-underlying items
1
 continued
During the year the Group incurred £13.5m on the acquisition of the Mouchel Group and in 2014 £8.1m on the acquisition of May 
Gurney. In preparation for and following the Mouchel acquisition the business incurred £8.4m on restructuring and transformation costs 
primarily related to reduction in staff numbers and integration of Mouchel into the enlarged business. In 2014 £29.6m was incurred on 
restructuring and transformation costs following the acquisition of May Gurney.
£3.4m was incurred preparing the Fleet & Passenger Services business for sale (see note 31) and £1.1m was incurred closing the Kier 
Group final salary pension scheme with a further £5.2m non-cash curtailment charge being incurred on cessation of the pension scheme. 
£4.5m was provided in 2014 for the likely cost to satisfy the Group’s share of both claims from, and the administration costs of, 
the Construction Workers Compensation Scheme.
1
 Exceptional items.
5 Finance income and cost – continuing operations
2015 2014
Underlying 
£m
Non-
underlying
2
£m
Total
 £m
Underlying
3
 
£m
Non-
underlying
2
 
£m
Total
3
£m
Finance income
Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.7 – 0.7 0.6 – 0.6
Interest receivable on loans to 
joint ventures 1.0 – 1.0 1.6 – 1.6
1.7 – 1.7 2.2 – 2.2
Finance costs
Interest payable and fees on bank 
overdrafts and loans (1.0) – (1.0) (3.6) – (3.6)
Interest payable on borrowings (13.7) – (13.7) (7.6) – (7.6)
Interest payable to joint ventures – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Interest payable on finance leases (2.6) – (2.6) (2.7) – (2.7)
Discount unwinding – (3.6) (3.6) – (5.3) (5.3)
Net interest on net defined 
benefit obligation (2.2) – (2.2) (1.8) – (1.8)
(19.5) (3.6) (23.1) (15.8) (5.3) (21.1)
Net finance costs (17.8) (3.6) (21.4) (13.6) (5.3) (18.9)
2
 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition.
3
 Restated to exclude discontinued operations (see note 19). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
133
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
6 Information relating to employees 
Note
2015 
No.
2014
 No.
Monthly average number of people employed during the year including executive directors 
was:
United Kingdom 16,110 14,318
Rest of world 1,821 1,017
 17,931 15,335
£m £m
Group staff costs are as follows:
United Kingdom 681.5 576.4
Rest of world 60.7 37.0
 742.2 613.4
Comprising:
Wages and salaries 657.5 522.2
Social security costs 37.9 45.9
Defined benefit pension scheme costs 14.2 14.0
Contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme  
(2015 includes curtailment charge of £5.2m) 29.2 27.3
Share-based payment plans 25 3.4 4.0
 742.2 613.4
7 Information relating to directors
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 84 to 106.
8 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for eligible employees as described below.
Kier Group Pension Scheme
This is the principal scheme and includes a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section. The assets of the scheme are 
held in trust separate from the assets of the Group. The trustees are responsible for investing the assets and delegate day-to-day 
decisions to independent professional investment managers.
The defined benefit section of the scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2002; existing members continued to accrue 
benefits for service until the scheme was closed to future accrual on 28 February 2015.
The contributions paid during the year were £24.7m (2014: £16.4m) which included contributions of £15.1m (2014: £8.0m) to fund 
the past service deficit.
Going forward, contributions will include an allowance for funding the past service deficit identified at the 2013 valuation date. 
The Group expects to make contributions of £16.5m for funding the past service deficit in the year to June 2016.
The Pension Protection Fund levy is payable in addition to the above contributions.
Other defined benefit schemes
Acquired with the May Gurney group
The May Gurney and TransLinc defined benefit schemes were acquired with May Gurney in the 2014 financial year. Both of these 
defined benefit schemes have closed to future accrual and the sum of the deficit contributions to both plans payable in the period to 
30 June 2015 amounted to £0.3m (2014: £0.3m). The assets of the scheme are held in trust separate from the assets of the Group. 
The trustees are responsible for decisions and holding the assets, and delegate day-to-day decisions to independent professional 
investment managers.
The TransLinc defined benefit scheme is associated with Kier FPS Limited, which was sold shortly after the end of the financial year. 
Therefore the assets and liabilities of the TransLinc defined benefit scheme have been transferred out of the pension liability and into 
assets/liabilities held for sale (see note 19).
An actuarial valuation of the May Gurney scheme was undertaken by the trustees’ independent actuaries as at 31 March 2014 using the 
projected unit method. The market value of the scheme’s assets at that date was £62.0m which represented approximately 83% of the 
benefits that had accrued to members at that date, after allowing for future increases in pensionable salaries. Deficit contributions for 
the 2015/16 financial year of £1.6m have been agreed with the trustees.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
134
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
8 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Acquired with the Mouchel Group
The Group has acquired a number of defined benefit pension schemes with the Mouchel Group. At acquisition, the aggregate liability 
of the schemes was £68.6m. The assets of the scheme are held in trust separate from the assets of the Group. The trustees are 
responsible for decisions and holding the assets, and delegate day-to-day decisions to independent professional investment managers. 
These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001. The ‘public sector comparable’ parts of the schemes are still open to future 
accrual, but the remainder was closed to future accrual in 2010. There is a deficit recovery plan in place, requiring deficit contributions 
of £7.8m in the coming year.
In total, the schemes currently have 78 active members, 3,042 deferred members and 1,305 retirees.
The Mouchel schemes were formally valued by the trustees independent actuaries as at 31 March 2013 and will need to be valued again 
in 2016.
Other defined contribution schemes
Contributions are also made to a number of other defined contribution arrangements. The Group paid contributions of £29.2m 
(2014: £26.7m) during the year to these arrangements.
IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits’ disclosures
The Group recognises any actuarial gains or losses through the statement of comprehensive income as permitted under IAS19.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries were:
Kier Group Pension Scheme
2015
%
2014 
%
2013
 %
Rate of general increases in pensionable salaries n/a 3.3 3.3
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 3.3 3.2 3.2
Discount rate 3.9 4.4 4.7
Inflation rate (Retail Price Index (‘RPI’)) 3.4 3.4 3.5
Inflation rate (Consumer Price Index (‘CPI’)) 2.3 2.4 2.5
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 27.8 years for a man and 29.7 years for a woman but is 
expected to increase to 28.9 years for future male and 31.0 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2035.
Value
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Land – 13.3 12.9
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets 672.5 644.9 608.1 
PFI assets 8.5 7.3 7.1 
Government bonds, cash, swaps and collateral 238.4 171.6 155.6 
Total market value of assets 919.4 837.1 783.7
Present value of liabilities (994.6) (900.2) (832.4) 
Deficit (75.2) (63.1) (48.7) 
Related deferred tax asset 15.0 12.6 11.2 
Net pension liability (60.2) (50.5) (37.5) 
May Gurney defined benefit schemes
2015
%
2014
%
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 3.3 3.2
Discount rate 3.9 4.4 
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.4 3.4
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.3 2.4 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
135
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 26.5 years for a man and 28.8 years for a woman but is 
expected to increase to 28.1 years for future male and 30.5 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2035.
Value
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets 29.3 38.0
Government bonds and cash 37.1 36.6
Total market value of assets 66.4 74.6
Present value of liabilities (69.9) (71.3)
Surplus (3.5) 3.3
Related deferred tax liability 0.7 (0.7)
Net pension (deficit)/asset (2.8) 2.6
Mouchel defined benefit schemes 
2015
 %
Rate of general increases in pensionable salaries n/a
Discount rate 3.9%
Inflation rate (‘RPI’) 3.4%
Inflation rate (‘CPI’) 2.3%
The mortality assumptions are that life expectancy from age 60 is currently 27.3 years for a man and 29.8 years for a woman but is 
expected to increase to 29.1 years for future male and 31.7 years for future female pensioners who retire in 2035.
Value
2015
£m
Land 16.1
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets 277.6
Government bonds, cash, swaps and collateral 62.6
Total market value of assets 356.3
Present value of liabilities (431.2)
Deficit (74.9)
Related deferred tax asset 15.0
Net pension liability (59.9) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
136
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
8 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2015 2014
Kier Group
Pension
Scheme
£m
May
 Gurney
£m
Mouchel
£m
Total
£m
Kier Group
Pension
Scheme
£m
May
Gurney
£m
Kier
Sheffield
LLP
£m
Total
£m
(Charged)/credited to operating profit in the 
income statement
Current service cost (5.8) – (0.1) (5.9) (9.3) – (2.5) (11.8)
Administration expenses (0.6) (0.2) (0.1) (0.9) (0.9) – – (0.9)
Past service cost (including curtailments) (5.2) – – (5.2) – – (0.9) (0.9)
Settlement credit – – – – – – 1.4 1.4
Net interest on net defined benefit obligation (2.2) 0.1 (0.1) (2.2) (1.9) 0.1 – (1.8)
Pension (expense)/credit recognised in profit and loss (13.8) (0.1) (0.3) (14.2) (12.1) 0.1 (2.0) (14.0)
Re-measurement in other comprehensive income
Actual return in excess of that recognised in 
net interest 60.4 5.9 – 66.3 36.4 2.5 5.1 44.0
Actuarial losses due to changes in 
financial assumptions (87.8) (10.8) (6.6) (105.2) (44.4) (3.4) (7.5) (55.3)
Actuarial losses due to changes in 
demographic assumptions – – – – (7.7) – (8.4) (16.1)
Actuarial gains/(losses) due to liability experience 4.4 0.5 – 4.9 (3.0) – 11.7 8.7
Total amount recognised in full (23.0) (4.4) (6.6) (34.0) (18.7) (0.9) 0.9 (18.7)
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets
Fair value at 1 July 837.1 74.6 – 911.7 783.7 – 182.9 966.6
Acquired in the year – – 355.8 355.8 – 71.1 – 71.1
Interest income on scheme assets 36.6 3.2 0.8 40.6 36.4 3.3 6.5 46.2
Re-measurement gains on scheme assets 60.4 5.9 – 66.3 36.4 2.5 5.1 44.0
Contributions by the employer 24.7 0.3 0.7 25.7 16.4 0.3 2.1 18.8
Contributions by scheme participants – – – – 0.1 – 0.8 0.9
Net benefits paid out (38.8) (3.4) (0.9) (43.1) (35.0) (2.6) (4.3) (41.9)
Administration expenses (0.6) (0.2) (0.1) (0.9) (0.9) – – (0.9)
Transfer to assets held for resale – (14.0) – (14.0) – – (193.1) (193.1)
Fair value at 30 June 919.4 66.4 356.3 1,342.1 837.1 74.6 – 911.7
Changes in the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation
Fair value at 1 July (900.2) (71.3) – (971.5) (832.4) – (183.9) (1,016.3)
Acquired in the year – – (424.4) (424.4) – (67.4) – (67.4)
Current service cost (5.8) – (0.1) (5.9) (9.3) – (2.5) (11.8)
Interest expense on scheme liabilities (38.8) (3.1) (1.0) (42.9) (38.3) (3.1) (6.5) (47.9)
Past service cost (5.2) – – (5.2) – – (0.9) (0.9)
Settlement – – – – – – 1.4 1.4
Actuarial losses due to changes in 
financial assumptions (87.8) (10.8) (6.6) (105.2) (44.4) (3.4) (7.5) (55.3)
Actuarial losses due to changes in 
demographic assumptions – – – – (7.7) – (8.4) (16.1)
Actuarial (losses)/gains due to liability experience 4.4 0.5 – 4.9 (3.0) – 11.7 8.7
Contributions by scheme participants – – – – (0.1) – (0.8) (0.9)
Net benefits paid out 38.8 3.4 0.9 43.1 35.0 2.6 4.3 41.9
Transfer to assets held for resale – 11.4 – 11.4 – – 193.1 193.1
Fair value at 30 June (994.6) (69.9) (431.2) (1,495.7) (900.2) (71.3) – (971.5)
Amounts included in the balance sheet
Fair value of scheme assets 919.4 66.4 356.3 1,342.1 837.1 74.6 – 911.7
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (994.6) (69.9) (431.2) (1,495.7) (900.2) (71.3) – (971.5)
Net (deficit)/surplus (75.2) (3.5) (74.9) (153.6) (63.1) 3.3 – (59.8)
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) 15.0 0.7 15.0 30.7 12.6 (0.7) – 11.9
Net pension (liability)/asset (60.2) (2.8) (59.9) (122.9) (50.5) 2.6 – (47.9) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
137
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
History of experience gains and losses for defined benefit schemes in aggregate:
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2011
 £m
Fair value of scheme assets 1,342.1 911.7 966.6 883.1 839.7
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (1,495.7) (971.5) (1,016.3) (940.9) (869.3)
Net deficit (153.6) (59.8) (49.7) (57.8) (29.6)
Related deferred tax asset 30.7 11.9 11.4 13.9 7.7
Net pension liability (122.9) (47.9) (38.3) (43.9) (21.9)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 66.3 44.0 45.7 (6.1) 47.0
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 4.9 8.7 0.7 (42.9) (34.4)
The Group has made the following special contributions to the Kier Group Pension Scheme in the period (2014: nil):
• In July 2014, £1.8m which was settled in cash; and
• In September 2014, £1.5m which was settled in cash.
These amounts have been included as contributions received by the scheme.
Pension sensitivity
The following tables shows the change in surplus/(deficit) arising from a change in the significant actuarial assumptions used to 
determine the retirement benefits obligations.
 
Kier Group Pension Scheme:
2015 2014
+0.25%/+1 year
£m
-0.25%/-1 year
£m
+0.25%/+1 year
£m
-0.25%/-1 year
£m
Discount rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) 45.7 (45.7) 41.1 (41.4)
Inflation rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) (31.0) 31.0 (20.3) 20.3
Increase in life expectancy (+/– 1 year) (33.2) 33.2 (28.7) 28.7
Mouchel Group pension schemes:
2015
+0.25%/+1 year
£m
-0.25%/-1 year
£m
Discount rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) 19.4 (19.4)
Inflation rate (+0.25%, -0.25%) (17.0) 17.0
Increase in life expectancy (+/– 1 year) (10.8) 10.8
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occuring 
at the end of the reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change, which is based on a change in a key assumption 
while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate 
the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity 
analyses did not change compared with the previous period. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
138
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
9 Taxation 
(a) Recognised in the income statement
2015 2014
2
Underlying
 items
1
 £m
Non-underlying
items
 (note 4)
 £m
Total
 £m
Underlying
items
1
 £m
Non-underlying
items
 (note 4)
 £m
Total
£m
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax 5.1 (2.9) 2.2 6.9 (8.2) (1.3)
Adjustments for prior years 10.0 – 10.0 0.8 – 0.8
Total current tax 15.1 (2.9) 12.2 7.7 (8.2) (0.5)
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of 
temporary differences 12.6 (4.0) 8.6 10.6 (1.6) 9.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years (10.4) – (10.4) 0.6 – 0.6
Rate change effect on deferred tax (0.4) – (0.4) (5.4) – (5.4)
Total deferred tax 1.8 (4.0) (2.2) 5.8 (1.6) 4.2
Total tax charge/(credit) in the 
income statement 16.9 (6.9) 10.0 13.5 (9.8) 3.7
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax 85.9 (46.4) 39.5 73.7 (58.3) 15.4
Add: tax on joint ventures included above 0.3 – 0.3 0.1 – 0.1
Adjusted profit before tax 86.2 (46.4) 39.8 73.8 (58.3) 15.5
Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 
20.75% (2014: 22.5%) 17.9 (9.6) 8.3 16.6 (13.1) 3.5
Non-deductible expenses 0.1 2.7 2.8 2.5 3.3 5.8
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (0.4) – (0.4) (5.5) – (5.5)
Capital gains not taxed (0.3) – (0.3) (1.4) – (1.4)
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in 
the income statement – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.3 – 0.3 0.2 – 0.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) – (0.4) 1.4 – 1.4
Total tax (including joint ventures) 17.2 (6.9) 10.3 13.6 (9.8) 3.8
Tax on joint ventures (0.3) – (0.3) (0.1) – (0.1)
Group tax charge/(credit) 16.9 (6.9) 10.0 13.5 (9.8) 3.7
1
 Stated before non-underlying items (see note 4). 
2
 Restated to reclassify the Group’s UK mining operations as discontinued.
Kier Group and its subsidiaries are based predominantly in the UK and are subject to UK corporation tax. The Group does not have 
an aggressive tax policy and since 1 July 2012 Kier has not entered into any tax avoidance schemes which were or should have 
been notified under the Disclosure of Tax Avoidance Scheme rules.
The tax charge before non-underlying items and amortisation of contract rights of £16.9m (2014
2
: £13.5m) shown in the table above 
equates to an effective tax rate of 20% (2014
2
: 18%) on adjusted profit before tax of £86.2m (2014
2
: £73.8m). This effective rate 
is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.75% (2014: 22.5%) due to a number of items shown in the table above.  
The non-deductible expenses mainly relate to acquisition costs on Mouchel and permanent differences on provisions.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, capital gains arising on disposal of certain investments, including some of the joint ventures 
disposed of during the year, are not subject to tax.
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in the income statement includes the impact of the tax deduction received in respect of the cost 
of shares exercised under the Group’s employee Save As You Earn Scheme and LTIP.
The net credit adjustment of £0.4m in respect of prior years’ results arises from differences between the estimates of taxation included 
in the previous year’s financial statements and the actual tax liabilities calculated in the tax returns submitted to and agreed by HMRC.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
139
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
(b) Recognised in the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement shows payments of £3.5m during the year (2014: £11.3m repayment).
(c) Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deferred tax expense (including effect of change in tax rate) 
Share of fair value movements on joint venture cash flow hedging instruments 0.2 3.6
Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments – (0.3)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (6.8) 4.9
Provisions – 1.9
Total tax charge in the statement of comprehensive income (6.6) 10.1
(d) Factors that may affect future tax charges
Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were announced in the Chancellor’s Budget on 8 July 2015. These include reductions to the 
main rate to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. 
As the changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date their effects are not included in these financial statements. 
The overall effect of these changes, if they had applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the 
deferred tax asset by an additional £1.1m with £4.6m being credited to the income statement and £5.7m being charged directly to the 
statement of comprehensive income.
The deferred tax balance as at the year end has been recognised at 20%.
(e) Tax losses
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of £177.3m (2014: £14.8m) available for offset against future profits. 
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £43.2m (2014: £14.7m) of income tax losses. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams against 
which these losses could be offset. Under present tax legislation, these losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
10 Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 39.6 pence
1
 (2013: 37.2 pence
1
) 27.0 25.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2015 of 19.2 pence
1
 (2014: 18.0 pence
1
) 13.2 12.3
40.2 37.3
The proposed final dividend of 36.0 pence (2014: 39.6 pence
1
) bringing the total dividend for the year to 55.2 pence
1
 (2014: 57.6 pence
1
) 
had not been approved at the balance sheet date and so has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. The dividend 
totalling circa £34.1m will be paid on 27 November 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 September 
2015. A scrip dividend alternative will be offered.
1
 As restated for the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction (see note 24). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
140
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
11 Earnings per share
A reconciliation of profit and earnings per share, as reported in the income statement, to underlying profit and earnings per share is set 
out below. The adjustments are made to illustrate the impact of non-underlying items.
2015 2014
1
Basic
 £m
Diluted 
£m
Basic 
£m
Diluted 
£m
Earnings
Continuing operations
Earnings (after tax and minority interests), being net profits attributable to 
equity holders of the parent 28.4 28.4 11.0 11.0
Impact of non-underlying items net of tax:
Amortisation of intangible assets – net of tax credit of £2.3m (2014: £2.2m) 8.9 8.9 8.6 8.6
Acquisition discount unwind
2
 – net of tax credit of £0.7m (2014: £1.2m) 2.9 2.9 4.1 4.1
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £3.9m (2014: £6.4m) 27.7 27.7 35.8 35.8
Earnings from continuing operations 67.9 67.9 59.5 59.5
Discontinued operations
Earnings (after tax and minority interests), being net loss attributable to 
equity holders of the parent (24.0) (24.0) (1.0) (1.0)
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £1.1m (2014: nil) 21.8 21.8 – –
Earnings from discontinued operations (2.2) (2.2) (1.0) (1.0)
million million million
3
million
3
Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 70.7 71.0 68.0 68.5
Earnings per share
Continuing operations pence pence pence
3
pence
3
Earnings (after tax and minority interests), being net profits attributable to 
equity holders of the parent
40.2 40.0 16.2 16.1
Impact of non-underlying items net of tax:
Amortisation of intangible assets
12.6 12.5 12.6 12.6
Acquisition discount unwind
4.0 4.1 6.1 5.9
Other non-underlying items 39.2 39.0 52.6 52.3
Earnings from continuing operations 96.0 95.6 87.5 86.9
Discontinued operations
Earnings (after tax and minority interests), being net profits attributable to 
equity holders of the parent
(33.9) (33.9) (1.5) (1.5)
Other non-underlying items 30.8 30.8 – –
Earnings from discontinued operations (3.1) (3.1) (1.5) (1.5)
1
 Represented to show UK mining operations as discontinued (see note 19).
2
 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition.
3
 On 2 June 2015, to fund the Mouchel acquisition, the business raised £340.2m, from a 5 for 7 rights issue, issuing 39,646,692 new shares 
at 858 pence per share, at a bonus of 25.1%. EPS has been restated to reflect the bonus element embedded in the rights issue. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
141
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
contract rights 
£m
Computer 
software
1
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 June 2013 13.4 38.9 4.5 56.8
Additions 1.2 0.5 4.5 6.2
Acquired 194.7 106.7 – 301.4
Disposals (0.7) (1.6) – (2.3)
At 30 June 2014 208.6 144.5 9.0 362.1
Additions – 0.9 21.7 22.6
Acquired 302.1 141.0 4.2 447.3
Disposals (1.2) 0.7 (0.3) (0.8)
At 30 June 2015 509.5 287.1 34.6 831.2
Amortisation  
At 30 June 2013 – (25.6) (1.2) (26.8)
Charge for the year – (10.8) (1.1) (11.9)
Disposals – 0.4 – 0.4
At 30 June 2014 – (36.0) (2.3) (38.3)
Charge for the year – (11.2) (4.8) (16.0)
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 30 June 2015 – (47.4) (7.1) (54.5)
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 509.5 239.7 27.5 776.7
At 30 June 2014 208.6 108.5 6.7 323.8
1
 £19.6m is under construction and not being depreciated.
Goodwill relates to the acquisition of MRBL Limited (£301.3m), May Gurney Integrated Services PLC (£194.7m), Kier Partnership Homes 
Limited (£5.2m), Pure Recycling Limited (£4.8m), Beco Limited (£2.6m) and Southdale (£0.8m). These balances have been subject to an 
annual impairment review based upon the projected profits of each CGU.
The cost of contract rights primarily relates to:
• The acquisition of the businesses and assets of the construction and business services operations of Sheffield City Council 
(£21.3m), Harlow Council (£0.8m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council (£1.9m) and North Tyneside Council (£7.2m). These contracts are 
in partnership with the respective councils that have retained a participatory ownership interest and the rights for a minority share 
in the profits. These profit shares are reflected in the income statement as minority interests. The amounts for the year to 30 June 
2015 are: Sheffield City Council £nil (2014: £0.2m), Harlow Council £0.6m (2014: £0.6m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council £0.3m 
(2014: £0.2m) and North Tyneside Council £0.2m (2014: £0.1m); 
• The acquisition of Pure Recycling Limited (£2.0m) and Stewart Milne (£1.0m);
• The acquisition of a commercial refuse collections business from Wealdon District Council (£3.6m); 
• The acquisition of May Gurney Integrated Services plc (£106.7m); and
• The acquisition of MRBL Limited (Mouchel Group) (£141.0m).
Contract rights on May Gurney and Mouchel are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected total contract duration. All other 
contract rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining contract life. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
142
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
12 Intangible assets continued
Carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible contract rights by CGU
2015 2014
Goodwill
£m
Intangible
 contract 
rights
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Intangible 
contract 
rights
£m
Total
£m
Property 0.1 0.6 0.7 1.3 0.6 1.9
Residential 6.0 – 6.0 5.1 – 5.1
Construction 6.9 3.8 10.7 6.9 4.3 11.2
Services 496.5 235.3 731.8 195.3 103.6 298.9
509.5 239.7 749.2 208.6 108.5 317.1
For impairment testing purposes the goodwill has been allocated to the above four CGUs. The recoverable amount of the goodwill and 
intangibles has been determined based on value in use calculations. The calculations use cash flow projections based on the Group’s 
forecasts, approved by management, covering a three-year period.
The resulting cash flows are discounted to present value, with the discount rate used in the value in use calculations based on the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as necessary to reflect the risk associated with the assets being tested.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the forecast revenues and gross margins during the forecast period and the 
discount rates applied to future cash flows. Cash flows for periods beyond those forecast have a terminal growth rate assumption applied.
Significant headroom exists in all CGUs and management considers that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would 
not lead to an impairment being recognised.
Services segment
A revenue growth rate of 2% and a fixed operating margin of 5% have been applied to the Services segment cash flows into perpetuity. 
These assumptions are in line with current trading and current forecasts of UK GDP growth rate. The pre-tax discount rate used is 10.0% 
(2014: 9.1%). 
Based on the value in use calculation, these assumptions derived a recoverable amount for the Services segment that is £474m above 
the carrying value of segmental assets.
The Services CGU impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions: discount rate, revenue growth rate and the operating 
margin, although management do not consider that any reasonable possible change in any single assumption would give rise to an 
impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles. The assumptions would have to change as follows for any single assumption 
change to bring headroom down to £nil:
• Discount rate – increase from 10.0% to 14.6%;
• Growth rate – reduce from positive 2% to negative 5.5%; and
• Underlying operating margin – reduce from 5% to 2.4%. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
143
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
13 Property, plant and equipment 
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Mining 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 30 June 2013 60.2 81.1 49.9 191.2
Acquired 7.3 158.8 – 166.1
Additions 6.7 39.5 2.0 48.2
Disposals (2.4) (42.6) – (45.0)
Currency realignment – (1.2) – (1.2)
At 30 June 2014 71.8 235.6 51.9 359.3
Acquired 0.6 6.8 – 7.4
Additions 1.1 18.7 – 19.8
Disposals (1.6) (12.1) (0.2) (13.9)
Currency realignment – 0.5 – 0.5
Transfer to assets held for resale (0.7) (119.1) (51.7) (171.5)
At 30 June 2015 71.2 130.4 – 201.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 June 2013 (6.0) (49.4) (26.6) (82.0)
Acquired (3.2) (75.8) – (79.0)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (2.2) (32.3) – (34.5)
– discontinued operations – – (7.0) (7.0)
Disposals 1.1 35.6 – 36.7
Impairment (2.0) – – (2.0)
Currency realignment – 0.9 – 0.9
At 30 June 2014 (12.3) (121.0) (33.6) (166.9)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (2.4) (22.2) – (24.6)
– discontinued operations – – (4.3) (4.3)
Disposals 0.7 8.9 – 9.6
Currency realignment – (0.4) – (0.4)
Transfer to assets held for resale 0.5 67.8 37.9 106.2
At 30 June 2015 (13.5) (66.9) – (80.4)
Net book value
At 30 June 2015 57.7 63.5 – 121.2
At 30 June 2014 59.5 114.6 18.3 192.4
The net book value of plant and equipment includes an amount of £24.4m (2014: £81.2m) in respect of assets held under finance 
leases (see note 21). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
144
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures
(a) Movements in year
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Investment in joint ventures
At 1 July 40.9 29.7
Acquired 0.4 –
Additions 35.6 11.7
Loan repayments – 0.4
Disposals (2.4) (13.7)
Share of:
Operating profit 8.2 1.9
Finance costs – (0.2)
Taxation (0.3) (0.1)
Post-tax results of joint ventures 7.9 1.6
Dividends received (3.5) (0.3)
Items recognised directly in other comprehensive income:
  Fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments 0.7 15.1
  Deferred tax on fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments (0.2) (3.6)
At 30 June 79.4 40.9
(b) Analysis of investment and loans
 
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 75.5 33.9
Deferred tax assets 0.1 0.7
Other non-current assets 26.3 38.0
Non-current assets 101.9 72.6
Current assets
Cash and trade receivables 91.6 29.9
Current assets 91.6 29.9
Total assets 193.5 102.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables – current (50.1) (9.3)
Income tax payable (0.5) – 
Borrowings – current (1.0) (3.4)
Current liabilities (51.6) (12.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (95.5) (56.6)
Non-current liabilities (95.5) (56.6)
Total liabilities (147.1) (69.3)
Net external assets 46.4 33.2
Loans provided to joint ventures 33.0 7.7
Total investments in and loans to joint ventures 79.4 40.9 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
145
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
The Group has provided guarantees to support borrowing facilities of joint ventures as follows:
2015 2014
Borrowing 
facility 
£m
Guarantee 
£m
Drawn
 at 30 June
 £m
Borrowing 
facility 
£m
Guarantee 
£m
Drawn
 at 30 June
 £m
Solum Regeneration (Epsom) LP – – – 15.0 7.5 5.0
Kier Sydenham LP 45.8 7.5 45.8 36.0 36.0 31.5
Biogen (UK) Limited 22.0 17.0 15.0 22.0 22.0 9.0
Kier Reading LLP 16.0 8.0 16.0 – – –
Kier Hammersmith Limited 21.5 21.5 3.5 – – –
Kier Trade City LLP 19.0 2.9 0.6 – – –
Fore UK 1B LP 19.3 19.3 5.2 – – –
143.6 76.2 86.1 73.0 65.5 45.5
Other than as disclosed above the liabilities of the joint ventures are without recourse to the Group. Details of the Group’s interests in 
joint ventures are given on page 166.
15 Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and 
prior reporting year:
Intangible 
assets
 £m
Property,
 plant and
 equipment 
£m
Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
 £m
Tax
 losses 
£m
Total 
£m
At 30 June 2013 (0.6) 2.8 7.5 11.4 2.4 23.5
Acquired (21.3) 1.9 2.9 (0.8) 5.9 (11.4)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 1.6 – (6.7) 6.2 (5.4) (4.3)
Charged directly to comprehensive income – – (1.6) (4.9) – (6.5)
Share-based payments credited to equity – – 0.5 – – 0.5
At 30 June 2014 (20.3) 4.7 2.6 11.9 2.9 1.8
Acquired (28.2) 9.7 (1.0) 13.7 3.5 (2.3)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 1.4 2.7 (3.4) (1.7) 2.2 1.2
Transfers – – 1.4 – – 1.4
Research and Development Expenditure Credit – – 2.5 – – 2.5
Credited directly to comprehensive income – – – 6.8 – 6.8
Share-based payments charged to equity – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 30 June 2015 (47.1) 17.1 2.0 30.7 8.6 11.3
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributed to temporary differences relating to the following:
Assets Liabilities Total
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 20.2 6.7 (3.1) (2.0) 17.1 4.7
Intangible assets – – (47.1) (20.3) (47.1) (20.3)
Inventories 2.4 3.3 – – 2.4 3.3
Payables 6.5 8.7 (8.7) (11.3) (2.2) (2.6)
Financial instruments – – – – – – 
Retirement benefit obligations 30.7 11.9 – – 30.7 11.9
Share-based payments 1.8 1.9 – – 1.8 1.9
Tax losses 8.6 2.9 – – 8.6 2.9
Total 70.2 35.4 (58.9) (33.6) 11.3 1.8
Set-off tax (58.9) (33.6) 58.9 33.6 – – 
Net tax assets 11.3 1.8 – – 11.3 1.8 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
146
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
16 Inventories
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Raw materials and consumables 23.6 23.9
Construction contracts in progress (note 17) 159.7 92.4
Land and work in progress held for development 343.4 331.4
Other work in progress 211.1 22.7
737.8 470.4
17 Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date comprise contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less losses of £7,984.1m 
(2014: £6,875.8m), less progress billings received and receivable of £8,224.6m (2014: £7,120.2m).
The net balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows:
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Inventories – construction contracts in progress (note 16) 159.7 92.4
Trade and other payables – gross amounts due to customers (note 22) (400.2) (336.8)
(240.5) (244.4)
18 Trade and other receivables 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current:
Trade receivables 241.8 358.4
Construction contract retentions 56.8 86.3
Amounts receivable from joint ventures 20.3 4.2
Other receivables 91.1 67.1
Prepayments and accrued income 107.0 59.1
Other taxation and social security 18.3 11.3
535.3 586.4
Non-current:
Construction contract retentions 21.5 12.0
Other receivables 9.9 11.5
31.4 23.5 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
147
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
19 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
The assets and liabilities related to Kier FPS Limited (‘F&PS’) have been classified as held for sale, as discussions were well advanced at 
the year end and the transaction completed on 1 July 2015.
The assets and liabilities of Kier Minerals Ltd (‘KML’) have been classified as held for sale and discontinued, discussions to sell were well 
advanced at the year end and the Group has made a strategic decision to exit from its UK mining operations, which constitute a separate 
major line of business for the Group. KML is expected to be sold in the first half of FY16.
The Group’s interest in two of its property ventures (Kier Catterick Limited (‘KCL’) and Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) 
Holdings Limited (‘JSS’)) are also held for sale. JSS was also held for sale at the previous balance sheet date, however did not complete 
during FY15 due to a delay in finalising the details of sale. The Group is now at an advanced stage of a sale process and completion is 
likely in the first half of FY16, therefore JSS continues to be presented as held for sale and not fully consolidated.
(a) Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale
2015 2014
F&PS
£m
KML
£m
KCL
£m
JSS
£m
Total
£m
JSS
£m
Property, plant and equipment 45.5 13.7 16.7 – 75.9 – 
Goodwill – – – – – – 
Other intangibles – – 9.0 – 9.0 – 
Inventory 0.3 – – – 0.3 – 
Other current assets 17.0 17.5 0.8 73.4 108.7 72.8
Total 62.8 31.2 26.5 73.4 193.9 72.8
(b) Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale
2015 2014
F&PS
£m
KML
£m
KCL
£m
JSS
£m
Total
£m
JSS
£m
Trade and other payables (17.6) (0.2) – (6.9) (24.7) (5.7)
Other current liabilities (including borrowings) (32.1) (27.5) (17.5) (55.3) (132.4) (56.7)
Provisions – (10.9) – – (10.9) – 
Total (49.7) (38.6) (17.5) (62.2) (168.0) (62.4)
Net assets held for sale 13.1 (7.4) 9.0 11.2 25.9 10.4
(c) Result of discontinued operations
Analysis of the result of the UK mining operations and the result recognised on the re-measurement of the associated assets, 
is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Revenue 20.6 47.4
Operating costs (22.5) (46.7)
Operating (loss)/profit (1.9) 0.7
Finance costs (1.0) (1.3)
Loss before tax (2.9) (0.6)
Tax 0.7 (0.4)
Loss after tax of discontinued operations (2.2) (1.0)
Loss before tax recognised on the re-measurement of net assets of discontinued activities  
to realisable value (22.9) – 
Tax 1.1 – 
Loss after tax recognised on the re-measurement of net assets of discontinued activities  
to realisable value (21.8) – 
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (24.0) (1.0) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
148
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
19 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations continued
(d) Cash flows from discontinued operations
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Operating cash flows 1.3 (7.4)
Investing cash flows (1.2) (2.0)
Financing cash flows (0.2) (0.2)
Total cash flows (0.1) (9.6)
20 Cash, cash equivalents and borrowings
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Cash and cash equivalents – bank balances and cash in hand 254.0 112.4
Borrowings due within one year – (39.8)
Borrowings due after one year (394.8) (195.4)
Net borrowings (140.8) (122.8)
Cash and cash equivalents include £78.6m (2014: £31.9m) being the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents held by joint 
operations, £67.3m (2014: £80.4m) of cash that cannot be offset against other Group bank balances and £0.2m of restricted cash 
(2014: £0.1m).
Cash and cash equivalents are subject to Group-wide cash pooling arrangements. On a gross basis, cash and cash equivalents were 
£1,595.6m (2014: £665.8m) and overdraft £1,341.6m (2014: £553.4m).
Information on borrowings is detailed in note 27.
21 Finance lease obligations
2015 2014
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
At 1 July 92.4 (5.4) 87.0 14.8 (1.1) 13.7
New obligations 17.7 (0.8) 16.9 43.1 (2.8) 40.3
Acquired obligations – – – 66.8 (4.2) 62.6
Repayments (34.8) 2.6 (32.2) (32.3) 2.7 (29.6)
Transferred to assets held for sale (32.7) 1.6 (31.1) – – –
At 30 June 42.6 (2.0) 40.6 92.4 (5.4) 87.0
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2015 2014
Future 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest 
£m
Present
 value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments 
£m
Interest
 £m
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£m
Less than one year 15.9 (1.0) 14.9 29.5 (1.9) 27.6
Between two and five years 26.7 (1.0) 25.7 61.7 (3.5) 58.2
Over five years – – – 1.2 – 1.2 
At 30 June 42.6 (2.0) 40.6 92.4 (5.4) 87.0 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
149
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
22 Trade and other payables
2015
 £m
2014 
£m
Current:
Trade payables 437.9 338.8
Sub-contract retentions 52.9 49.5
Construction contract balances 400.2 336.8
Deferred consideration on acquisitions – 1.0
Other taxation and social security 53.5 37.2
Other payables 77.1 34.7
Accruals and deferred income 253.3 170.4
Payments received on account 39.4 13.0
Due to external joint ventures – 1.3
1,314.3 982.7
Non-current:
Trade payables 1.5 0.9
Sub-contract retentions 9.5 6.3
Accruals and deferred income 0.4 2.1
11.4 9.3
23 Provisions
2015 2014
Insurance 
claims 
£m
Restoration
 of mining 
sites
 £m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total
 £m
Insurance 
claims 
£m
Restoration
 of mining 
sites
 £m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total
 £m
At 1 July 17.4 17.8 48.5 83.7 27.2 16.8 13.4 57.4
(Charged)/credited to 
income statement 5.9 – (10.3) (4.4) 8.4 – 0.8 9.2
Acquired 5.2 – 13.9 19.1 – – 56.5 56.5
Utilised (8.3) (7.7) (15.2) (31.2) (10.2) – (28.2) (38.4)
Unwinding of discount – 0.8 3.6 4.4 – 1.1 4.9 6.0
Transfers 2.1 (10.9)
1
(4.1) (12.9) (8.0) (0.1) 1.1 (7.0)
At 30 June 22.3 – 36.4 58.7 17.4 17.8 48.5 83.7
1
 Transfer to Assets held for resale (see note 19).
Insurance provisions are in respect of legal and other disputes in various Group companies. 
Mining provisions represent the cost of restoration of opencast mining activities; this provision has been transferred to the disposal 
group (see note 19) as the Group is in the process of exiting from its UK mining operations.
Other provisions primarily represent contractual obligations on cessation of certain contracts and fair value provisions. 
It is anticipated that the amounts provided will be utilised as follows:
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Due within one year 13.1 27.9
Due after one year 45.6 55.8
58.7 83.7
Due to the nature of the provision for insurance claims, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities 
is uncertain.
Future outflows in respect of other provisions are expected to occur over the next 11 years. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
150
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
24 Share capital and reserves
Share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises:
2015 2014
Number £m Number £m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each 95,159,247 1.0 55,264,354 0.6
On 2 June 2015, to fund the Mouchel acquisition, the business raised £340.2m, from a 5 for 7 rights issue, issuing 39,646,692 new 
shares at 858 pence per share, at a premium to nominal value of £311.6m. Costs related to the rights issue placing (£8.1m) have been 
deducted from share premium. See note 30 for further details. During the year 65,358 shares were issued as a scrip dividend alternative 
at a premium of £1.1m and 182,843 shares under the Sharesave Scheme at a premium of £2.1m.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the Company.
Cash flow hedge reserve
This reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related 
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred, together with any related deferred tax.
Translation reserve
This reserve comprises the cumulative difference on exchange arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary 
undertakings. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS1, this reserve was set to nil at 1 July 2004.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the shares issued at a premium to acquire May Gurney on 8 July 2013.
25 Share-based payments
Options and awards over the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 June 2015 were as follows:
Formerly 
May Gurney
Sharesave
 Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
Sharesave 
Scheme
LTIP 2013 
award
LTIP 2014 
award
LTIP 2015
 award
Date of grant
27 Apr
 2012
3 May
 2013
31 October
 2014
30 July 
2012
13 Sept 
2012
21 Oct 
2013
22 Oct 
2014 Total 
Awards outstanding at  
30 June 2015
– directors – – – – 130,851 98,690 146,045 375,586
– employees 373,139 364,955 762,213 133,650 507,098 544,657 836,446 3,522,158
 373,139 364,955 762,213 133,650 637,949 643,347 982,491 3,897,744
Exercise price (pence) 1,050 1,050 1,450 743 nil nil nil
Sharesave Scheme
762,213 options were granted in the year (2014: nil). Options under the Sharesave Scheme are all equity settled. The weighted average 
market price of Kier Group plc shares at the date of exercise of options was 1,377 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Awards made under the scheme are normally able to vest following the third anniversary of the date of the grant. Vesting may be in full or 
in part (with the balance of the award lapsing) and is subject to the Group achieving specific performance targets. Awards under the LTIP 
are all equity settled.
The awards which are taken as shares are intended to be satisfied from the following shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee 
Benefit Trust and May Gurney Group Trustees Ltd Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust rather than from the issue of new shares. These 
shares are accounted for as a deduction from retained earnings.
2015 2014
Number 
of shares
Value
 £m
Number
 of shares
Value
£m
At 1 July 736,792 9.3 455,686 6.1
Acquired as a consequence of the rights issue 122,575 – – –
May Gurney at date of acquisition – – 519,881 6.0
Issued in satisfaction of awards and other schemes (177,864) (1.9) (238,775) (2.8)
At 30 June 681,503 7.4 736,792 9.3 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
151
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
The market value of these shares at 30 June 2015 was £9.7m (2014: £13.0m). The dividends on these shares have been waived.
A description of these schemes and the terms and conditions of each scheme are included in the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 84 to 106.
Value of share schemes
The fair value per option granted has been calculated using the following assumptions. These calculations are based on the Black-
Scholes model for all options apart from the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) element of the LTIP which is based on a stochastic model.
Sharesave Scheme
Formerly 
May Gurney
Date of grant
27 April 
2012
3 May 
2013
31 October 
2014
30 July 
2012
Share price at grant (pence) 1,172 1,187 1,490 1,268
Exercise price (pence) 1,050 1,050 1,450 743
Option life (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.36 
Expected volatility 32.8% 27.2% 27.1% 27.8%
Dividend yield 5.6% 5.6% 4.8% 5.2%
Risk-free interest rate 0.7% 0.4% 1.1% 0.5%
Value per option (pence):
 At grant 209.7 174.6 200.4 419.7
 Restated for rights issue (see note 24) 167.6 139.5 160.1 335.4
Former options under the May Gurney scheme granted to May Gurney employees were converted to options over Kier Group plc shares at 
the acquisition date. The option life shown above is the period from acquisition.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Date of grant
13 September
2012
(EPS element)
13 September
2012
(TSR element)
21 October
2013
(EPS element)
21 October
2013
(TSR element)
22 October
2014
(EPS element)
22 October
2014
(TSR element)
Share price at grant (pence) 1,399 1,399 1,797 1,797 1,519 1,519
Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil
Option life (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 
Expected volatility n/a 28.1% n/a 28.6% n/a 24.6%
Dividend yield 4.7% 4.7% 3.8% 3.8% 4.7% 4.7%
Risk-free interest rate n/a 0.4% n/a 0.8% n/a 1.0%
Value per option (pence):
 At grant 1,214.3 627.8 1,604.2 1,366.7 1,317.7 756.8
 Restated for rights issue (see note 24) 970.4 501.7 1,281.9 1,092.1 1,053.0 604.8
The value per option represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable, as adjusted for the bonus factor arising on the 
rights issue in the year.
The fair value of the TSR element incorporates an assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded, as the performance 
conditions are market conditions under IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payments’. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
152
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
25 Share-based payments continued 
The performance conditions of the EPS element are non-market conditions under IFRS2. The fair value therefore does not include an 
assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded. Instead the amount charged for this element is based on the fair value 
factored by a ‘true-up’ for the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon 
UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
£3.4m relating to share-based payments has been recognised in the income statement as employee costs (2014: £4.0m). Included in 
other payables is an amount of £0.3m (2014: £0.5m) relating to provisions for employer’s national insurance.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below:
2015 2014
Number
 of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Number
 of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price
Outstanding at 1 July 2,743,955 404.3p 3,057,902 464.9p
Converted from May Gurney schemes – – 345,201 744.0p
Forfeited (662,477) 632.5p (636,895) 265.8p
Exercised (291,651) 591.9p (592,482) 674.6p
Granted 1,326,442 575.9p 570,229 –
Impact of rights issue 781,475 – – –
Outstanding at 30 June 3,897,744 405.8p 2,743,955 404.3p
Exercisable at 30 June – – – –
The options outstanding at 30 June 2015 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.32 years (2014: 1.27 years).
26 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
There are contingent liabilities in respect of performance bonds, guarantees and claims under contracting and other arrangements, 
including joint operations and joint ventures, entered into in the normal course of business.
27 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group’s capital management objectives are: to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern; to optimise the capital 
structure in order to minimise the cost of capital; and to maintain a strong balance sheet to support business development and tender 
qualification. The four operating divisions of the Group have complementary capital characteristics, with the Construction division, and to 
a lesser extent the Services division, generating a net cash surplus, whilst the Property and Residential divisions require net capital to 
fund developments. The Group’s capital management strategy is to use a blend of capital types with different risk, return and maturity 
profiles to support the operating divisions and deliver the Group’s capital management objectives. The Group’s overall capital risk 
management strategy remains unchanged from 2014.
The capital structure of the Group comprises: equity, consisting of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves as 
disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity; and cash, cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in note 20 and 
described further below. The Group forecasts and monitors short, medium and longer-term capital needs on a regular basis and adjusts 
its capital structure as required through the payment of dividends to shareholders, the issue of new share capital and the increase or 
repayment of borrowings. All investment decisions are made with regard to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and typically 
a pre-tax annualised return of at least 15% is required to ensure such investments are value enhancing for shareholders. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
153
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed 
primarily to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk management policies is to minimise 
any potential adverse effects on financial performance and net assets.
The Group’s treasury team manages the principal financial risks within policies and operating limits approved by the Board. Treasury 
is not a profit centre and does not enter into speculative transactions. Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure 
to fluctuations in interest and exchange rates.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits and interest rate and currency hedges.
Policies and procedures exist to ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history. The Group’s most significant clients are public 
or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the client.
Short-term bank deposits and hedging transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties based on ratings 
issued by the major ratings agencies. Counterparty exposure positions are monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any one 
counterparty are within predetermined limits. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Trade and other receivables included in the balance sheet are stated net of a bad debt provision which has been estimated by 
management following a review of individual, receivable accounts. There is no group-wide rate of provision and provision made for debts 
that are overdue is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date. Receivables are written off against 
the bad debt provision when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Provision as at 1 July 2.3 1.3
Acquired in the year 11.6 1.8
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 0.1 (0.8)
Provision as at 30 June 14.0 2.3
There were £109.1m (2014: £48.8m) of trade receivables that were overdue at the balance sheet date that have not been provided 
against, of which £64.2m (2014: £37.8m) had been received by the end of August 2015. There are no indications as at 30 June 2015 
that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet 
that are overdue and unprovided. The proportion of trade receivables at 30 June 2015 that were overdue for payment was 45.1% 
(2014: 13.6%). Credit terms vary across the Group; the average age of trade receivables was as follows:
Construction 22 days (2014: 36 days)
Services  23 days (2014: 41 days)
Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to significant credit risk. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
154
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
27 Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group has borrowing facilities to finance short-term working capital requirements and term loans to finance medium-term capital 
requirements, which carry interest at floating rates, at a margin over LIBOR. The Group’s borrowings can be analysed as follows:
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Fixed rate 182.7 62.7
Variable rate 212.1 172.5
394.8 235.2
In addition, a number of the Group’s joint ventures have entered into interest rate swaps where there is significant interest rate.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates primarily within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is not considered to be significant. Where significant 
foreign currency exposures are identified, these are hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts or swaps.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient borrowing facilities are available to fund operations without the need to 
carry significant net debt over the medium term. The Group’s principal borrowing facilities are provided by a syndicate of relationship 
banks in the form of unsecured committed borrowing facilities. The amount of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is 
reviewed regularly and is designed to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
Derivative financial instruments
At 30 June 2015
Discontinued operations
Current 
liabilities
 £m
Non-current 
liabilities
 £m
Total
 liabilities 
£m
Fuel price forward contracts 0.4 – 0.4
Fuel price forward contracts have been accounted for as derivatives held at fair value through the income statement. The fair value of 
these contracts has been determined based on a level 2 valuation method, using valuation techniques that include inputs that are based 
on observable market data.
During 2013 Kier Group plc entered into three cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a US dollar denominated loan, nominal 
value US$28m. During 2014 Kier Group plc entered into four cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a US dollar denominated 
loan, nominal value US$116m. These swaps have continued to meet the criteria for hedge accounting and as a result have been 
recognised directly in equity.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur, how those 
cash flows will impact the income statement and the fair value of the related hedging instruments:
Continuing operations
Expected cash flows
Fair value 
£m
Total
 £m
0–1 years
 £m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years
 £m
More than
5 years
 £m
Cross-currency swaps:
Liabilities 1.5 34.6 4.1 4.1 12.1 14.3
In addition to the above, a number of the Group’s PFI joint ventures have entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging 
interest rate risk. Interest-bearing debts and associated interest rate derivatives within these joint ventures have a typical term of 
between 25 and 30 years and are without recourse to the Group. At 30 June 2015 the aggregate amount outstanding on these interest-
bearing debts against which interest rate derivatives are held is £123.4m. The Group’s share of the total net fair value liability of these 
interest rate derivatives at 30 June 2015, based on quoted prices in active markets, amounted to £22.0m which, together with the 
related deferred tax asset of £4.4m, have met the criteria for hedge accounting and as a result have been recognised directly in equity.
Financial assets
Loans and receivables at amortised cost, cash and cash equivalents: 2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 254.0 112.4
Trade and other receivables (including £31.4m due after more than one year) – excluding prepayments 459.7 550.8
Loans to joint ventures 33.0 7.7
746.7 670.9 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
155
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Included in the above are £31.4m of trade and other receivables due after more than one year.
Financial liabilities – analysis of maturity dates
At 30 June 2015 the Group had the following financial liabilities together with the maturity profile of their contractual cash flows:
Continuing  
operations
Discontinued 
operations
30 June 2015
Trade and
other
 payables
1
 £m
Deferred 
consideration 
on acquisition
 £m
Borrowings 
£m
Finance 
lease 
obligations 
£m
Derivative
financial
 instruments
 £m
Total
 £m
Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
£m
Carrying value 1,232.8 – 394.8 40.6 1.5 1,669.7 0.4
Contractual cash flows
Less than one year 1,221.4 – 9.4 15.9 4.1 1,250.8 0.4
One to two years 11.4 – 39.2 17.0 4.1 71.7 –
Two to three years – – 8.8 7.0 4.1 19.9 – 
Three to four years – – 8.8 2.1 4.1 15.0 – 
Four to five years – – 218.2 0.6 4.1 222.9 – 
Over five years – – 169.4 – 14.1 183.5 – 
1,232.8 – 453.8 42.6 34.6 1,763.8 0.4
30 June 2014   
Carrying value 940.8 1.0 235.2 87.0 1.7 1,265.7 0.4
Contractual cash flows
Less than one year 931.5 1.0 45.0 29.5 0.9 1,007.9 0.1
One to two years 9.3 – 5.2 24.3 0.9 39.7 0.1
Two to three years – – 84.1 21.0 0.9 106.0 0.2
Three to four years – – 3.5 11.4 0.9 15.8 – 
Four to five years – – 55.1 5.0 0.9 61.0 – 
Over five years – – 66.7 1.2 2.2 70.1 – 
940.8 1.0 259.6 92.4 6.7 1,300.5 0.4
1
 Trade and other payables excludes deferred consideration, deferred income, taxes and social security and payments on account.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
The Group’s derivatives are classified as level 2.
Borrowings and borrowing facilities
The Group has the following unsecured committed facilities: 
• Revolving credit facility of £380.0m, at a margin over LIBOR, due for renewal in June 2020, £185.0m drawn at 30 June 2015 
(2014: £55.0);
• One term loan at a margin over LIBOR, £30.0m repayable January 2017, fully drawn at 30 June 2015, £30.0m (2014: £30.0m); and
• Four loan notes, principal amounts of £45.0m, US$28.0m, £47.0m and US$116.0m, with fixed coupons of between 4.1% and 4.9%, 
repayable in four repayments, December 2019, December 2022, November 2021 and November 2024, fully drawn at 30 June 2015, 
£182.7m (2014: £62.7m).
In addition the Group has an unsecured overdraft of £45.0m (2014: £45.0m), at a margin over LIBOR, repayable on demand, £nil drawn 
at 30 June 2015 (2014: £39.8m).
The committed facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Group’s financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt 
to EBITDA, interest cover, and consolidated net worth. The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
Included within borrowings are capitalised loan fees of £2.8m (2014: £2.3m).  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
156
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
28 Financial and capital commitments 
2015
 £m
2014
£m
Commitments for capital expenditure 6.3 7.3
Commitments for equity and subordinate debt in joint ventures 16.3 23.4
22.6 30.7
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2015 2014
Property 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Property 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Within one year 10.1 22.1 6.3 19.7
Between one and five years 25.2 32.1 16.4 23.9
Over five years 20.0 7.0 11.1 1.6
 55.3 61.2 33.8 45.2
The Group leases properties and vehicles for operational purposes. Property leases vary considerably in length up to a maximum period 
beyond 30 June 2015 of 14 years. Vehicle leases typically run for a period of four years. No leases include contingent rentals.
29 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, key management personnel and pension schemes in which its 
employees participate.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group’s key management personnel are the executive and non-executive directors as identified in the directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 84 to 106.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to directors and contributes to their pension arrangements as 
disclosed on page 95. Key management personnel also participate in the Group’s share option programme (see note 25).
Key management personnel compensation comprised:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Emoluments as analysed in the directors’ remuneration report 3.3 3.2
Termination payments 0.2 –
Employer’s national insurance contributions 0.5 0.4
Total short-term employment benefits 4.0 3.6
Share-based payment charge 0.3 0.7
 4.3 4.3
Transactions with pension schemes
Details of transactions between the Group and pension schemes in which its employees participate are detailed in note 8. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
157
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Transactions with joint ventures 
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Staff and associated costs 1.8 38.1
Management services 0.7 0.5
Interest on loans to joint ventures 1.0 1.5
 3.5 40.1
Amounts due from joint ventures are analysed below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Saudi Comedat Company Limited (2.2) –
Staffordshire Property Partnership 0.1 –
Kier Trade City Holdco 1 LLP 7.4 –
Kier Reading Holdco 1 LLP 14.6 –
3 Sovereign Square Holdings 1 LLP 1.8 –
Salford Village Limited 2.0 2.0
Biogen Holdings Limited 3.8 (2.0)
Kier Hammersmith Holdco Limited 6.2 6.6
Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP 0.1 0.2
Tri-Link 140 Holdings 1 LLP (0.8) –
Information Resources (Oldham) Limited – 0.9
33.0 7.7
30 Acquisitions and disposals
(a) Summary of consideration paid and payable in respect of acquisitions 
 Beco
 Limited
£m
Kier 
Develop-
ments 
Limited
 £m
North 
Tyneside 
Council
 £m
May
Gurney
£m
Mouchel
£m
Southdale
£m
Total
 £m
Balance payable at  
30 June 2013 0.1 25.7 1.9 – – – 27.7
Acquisition of May Gurney – – – 38.5 – – 38.5
Paid during the year to  
30 June 2014 (0.1) (26.0) (1.0) (38.5) – – (65.6)
Unwinding of discount – 0.3 0.1 – – – 0.4
Balance payable at  
30 June 2014 – – 1.0 – – – 1.0
Acquisition of Mouchel  
(note 30b) – – – – 260.6 – 260.6
Acquisition of Southdale  
(note 30d) – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Paid during the year to  
30 June 2015 – – (1.0) – (260.6) (1.0) (262.6)
Balance payable at 30 June 2015 – – – – – – –  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
158
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
(b) Acquisition of Mouchel 
The Group purchased the entire share capital of MRBL Limited (‘Mouchel’) on 8 June 2015 for a total consideration of £260.6m. Mouchel 
is an international infrastructure and business services group. It provides advisory, design, project delivery and managed services to 
the highways and transportation, local government, property, emergency services, health, education and utilities markets in the UK, 
the Middle East and Australia. It is the leading provider of repair and maintenance services to the UK strategic road network. The 
acquisition represented an excellent opportunity to accelerate Kier’s strategy for growth in the infrastructure sector. The Kier Board 
believes the acquisition is highly complementary and positions Kier as a sector leader in the growing UK highways maintenance and 
management market.
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired represents the fair value of customer contracts at the date of acquisition. Due to the 
proximity of the acquisition to Kier Group plc’s reporting date, the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are provisional to allow 
for further adjustments in the measurement period.
The goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled workforce and the operating synergies 
that arise from the Group’s strengthened market position. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
£13.5m of acquisition costs were incurred in the year and expensed to the income statement as a non-underlying item.
Provisional 
fair value
to the Group
£m
Intangible assets 145.2
Property, plant and equipment 7.4
Investment in joint ventures 0.4
Deferred tax assets (2.3)
Inventories 76.7
Trade and other receivables 49.3
Cash and cash equivalents 32.2
Trade and other payables (156.4)
Borrowings (94.0)
Corporation tax payable (11.5)
Retirement benefit obligations (68.6)
Provisions (19.1)
(40.7)
Goodwill 301.3
Total assets acquired 260.6
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 260.6
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the acquisition of Mouchel had been made at the beginning of the year, would 
include revenue from continuing operations of £4,033.9m (compared with the Group revenue of £3,275.9m) and underlying profit before 
taxation of £99.5m (compared with the reported underlying profit before taxation of £85.9m). In preparing the pro forma results, revenue 
and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 July 2014 and the inter-company transactions have been eliminated. 
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchase actually 
been made at the beginning of the year, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
The Mouchel business contributed to the Group revenue of £55.6m and underlying profit before taxation of £2.6m for the period 
9 June 2015 to 30 June 2015. Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
159
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
(c) Deemed disposal of investment in joint venture and subsequent acquisition as a subsidiary  
of Lingfield (Catterick) Limited
On 19 June 2015 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Property Developments Limited, acquired 100% of the share capital of Lingfield 
(Catterick) Limited (‘LCL’). LCL had previously been held as a joint venture of which the Group had a 50% holding. The remaining 50% of 
the share capital of LCL was acquired from the joint venture partner for £4.5m, and the entity renamed Kier (Catterick) Limited (‘KCL’). 
This transaction has been treated as a deemed disposal of a joint venture (see below) and subsequent acquisition of a subsidiary. A gain 
of £3.8m arose on the deemed disposal of the joint venture. 
The gain on deemed disposal of the joint venture is calculated as follows:
£m
Deemed consideration 4.5
Cost of investment (0.7)
Gain on deemed disposal 3.8
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities at acquisition:
Provisional
carrying value
at acquisition
£m
Non-current assets 16.7
Current assets 0.3
Cash at bank 0.5
Current liabilities (3.3)
Borrowings (14.2)
–
Goodwill 9.0 
Total assets acquired 9.0 
Satisifed by:
Cash consideration 4.5
Deemed consideration 4.5
Total consideration 9.0
Subsequent to the acquisition on 19 June 2015 but before 30 June, the Group decided to dispose of KCL within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date and negotiations are ongoing with interested parties. As a result at the balance sheet date KCL is held as an 
asset for sale.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
160
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 continued
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
(d) Acquisition of trade and assets of Southdale Limited
On 29 April 2015 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Living Limited, acquired certain assets and the business of the housing and 
construction operations of Southdale Limited. The consideration of £1.0m representing the fair value of the net assets acquired was 
paid wholly in cash in April 2015.
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities at acquisition:
Provisional
carrying value
to the Group
£m
Inventories 1.1
Trade and other receivables 0.6
Trade and other payables (1.5)
0.2
Goodwill 0.8
Total assets acquired 1.0
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 1.0
(e) Disposal of investments in joint ventures
During the year the Group, through its subsidiary Kier NR Limited, disposed of its interests in Solum Regeneration Limited Partnership and 
Solum Regeneration (GP) Limited for a cash consideration of £10.0m. Existing projects will continue to be taken forward under the existing 
guaranteed funding arrangement and future projects will continue to be considered for development in partnership with Network Rail.
The Group, through its subsidiaries Kier Developments Limited and Kier Project Investment Limited, also sold its investments in the 
following joint ventures: Lingfield (Catterick) Limited (see note (30c)), Information Resources (Oldham) Holdings Limited and Information 
Resources (Oldham) Limited.
The Property division typically uses joint ventures to structure transactions, and the Group considers disposals of such vehicles to be 
underlying trading which are in the underlying course of business.
The disposal proceeds can be reconciled to the profit on disposal as follows:
2015
 £m
2014
£m
Sales proceeds and deemed consideration 18.7 17.3
Book value of net assets and loans to joint ventures (2.4) (9.4)
Intangible assets (1.2) (1.8)
Sale costs (0.3) – 
Profit on disposal 14.8 6.1
31 Subsequent events
On 1 July 2015 the Group sold its investment in Kier FPS Limited for £17.9m, giving rise to an overall loss on disposal of £2.2m, 
after disposal costs of £3.4m were incurred in the current financial year and were expensed to the income statement as incurred.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
161
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Notes
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 5 165.3 384.2
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 732.3 – 
897.6 384.2 
Current assets
Debtors 6 3.0 3.6
Cash and cash equivalents 248.0 156.7
251.0 160.3
Current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 7 (26.9) (29.7)
Net current assets 224.1 130.6
Total assets less current liabilities 1,121.7 514.8
Non-current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (394.8) (195.4)
Net assets 726.9 319.4
Shareholders’ funds
Share capital 8 1.0 0.6
Share premium 9 408.5 73.7
Merger reserve 9 134.8 184.8
Capital redemption reserve 9 2.7 2.7
Profit and loss account 9 179.9 57.6
Total shareholders’ funds 10 726.9 319.4
The financial statements on pages 161 to 163 were approved by the Board of directors on 16 September 2015 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
 Haydn Mursell Bev Dew
 Director Director
Company balance sheet
At 30 June 2015
(registered company number 2708030) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
162
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 30 June 2015 
1 Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, on the going concern basis and in accordance with  
applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Deferred taxation
In accordance with FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’, deferred taxation is provided fully and on a non-discounted basis at expected future corporation 
tax rates in respect of timing differences between profits computed for taxation and accounts purposes.
Own shares
The cost of the Company’s investment in its own shares, which comprises shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust for 
the purpose of funding the Company’s share option plans, is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ funds in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments under the Sharesave and LTIP schemes. The fair value of these schemes at 
the date of grant is expressed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities are cash at bank and borrowings. Cash at bank is carried in the balance sheet at 
nominal value. Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
The consolidated financial statements include disclosures in note 27 under IFRS7 which comply with FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments and 
Disclosures’. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of certain exemptions in FRS29 from the requirement to present separate 
financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
2 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for  
the year.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). 
3 Information relating to directors and employees
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 84 to 106. The Company has no employees other than the directors.
4 Dividends
Details of the dividends paid by the Company are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
5 Fixed assets – investments
£m
Cost at 30 June 2014 
384.2
Disposals (218.9)
1
At 30 June 2015 165.3
Net book value at
30 June 2015 165.3
30 June 2014 384.2
1
 The Group restructured its ownership of Kier MGIS Limited selling its interest to Kier Limited for book value (see note 9). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
163
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
6 Debtors
2015 
£m
2014
 £m
Other debtors 1.6 2.6
Deferred tax 1.4 1.0
 3.0 3.6
7 Creditors
2015
 £m
2014
 £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 23.2 27.8
Corporation tax 2.6 0.7
Other creditors 1.1 1.2
 26.9 29.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Borrowings 394.8 195.4
Further details on borrowings are included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
8 Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company are included in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
9 Reserves
The movement in reserves is as follows:
Share capital 
£m
Share 
premium
 £m
Merger
 reserve 
£m
Capital
 redemption 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m
Total
£m
At 30 June 2013 0.4 63.3 1.2 2.7 38.5 106.1
Issue of own shares 0.2 10.4 183.6 – – 194.2
Movement in provision for share-based payments – – – – 3.7 3.7
Purchase of own shares – – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Profit for the year – – – – 53.8 53.8
Dividends paid – – – – (37.3) (37.3)
At 30 June 2014 0.6 73.7 184.8 2.7 57.6 319.4
Profit for the year – – – – 109.8 109.8
Dividends paid – – – – (40.2) (40.2)
Issue of own shares 0.4 334.8 – – – 335.2
Transfers – – (50.0)
1
– 50.0
1
– 
Share-based payments – – – – 3.4 3.4
Purchase of own shares – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
At 30 June 2015 1.0 408.5 134.8 2.7 179.9 726.9
1
 The Group restructured its ownership of Kier MGIS Limited to Kier Limited for a nil profit loss, for which it was paid £50.0m from free cash 
and entered into a long-term loan for the balance of consideration. As a consequence £50m of the merger reserve was transferred to 
retained earnings.
Included in the profit and loss account is the balance on the sharescheme reserve which comprises the investment in own shares 
of £3.7m (2014: £4.7m) and a credit balance on the sharescheme reserve of £7.4m (2014: £7.3m).
Details of the shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust and of the share-based payment schemes are included 
in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
164
Principal operating subsidiaries and business units
The principal operating subsidiaries and business units included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 June 2015 are listed 
below. Unless indicated otherwise, these undertakings are wholly owned and incorporated in England and Wales.
Construction Kier Construction Limited 
Building 
 Central 
 Eastern  
 London 
 Major Projects 
 Northern 
 Scotland 
 Southern 
 Western & Wales 
 Strategic Frameworks and Alliances
Specialist businesses 
 Engineering 
 Process & Engineering
Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited
Services Kier Services Limited 
Housing Maintenance 
 Kier Harlow Limited
2
 (80%) 
 Kier Islington Limited 
 Kier North Tyneside Limited
2
 (80%) 
 Kier Sheffield LLP
2
 (40%) 
 Kier Stoke Limited
2
 (80.1%)
Facilities Management 
 Kier Facilities Services Limited
Environmental 
 Pure Buildings Limited 
 Pure Recycling Warwick Limited
Asset Management 
 Kier Asset Partnership Services Limited
Energy Solutions 
 Kier Energy Solutions Limited
Insurance Management 
  Kier Insurance Management Services Limited 
Tempsford Insurance Company Limited
4
 
 (incorporated in Guernsey)
Plant and Fleet Management 
 Kier Plant Limited 
 Kier Fleet Services Limited
Kier May Gurney 
 Kier MGIS Limited  
 Kier MG Limited 
 Kier MG Estates Limited 
 Kier MG Recycling CIC Limited 
 Kier FPS Limited (sold July 2015) 
 Tor2 Limited (80.01%)
Mouchel 
 MRBL Limited 
 Mouchel Limited 
 EM Highways Services Limited
Property Kier Property Limited 
Kier Developments Limited 
Kier Ventures Limited
Kier Project Investment Limited
Residential Kier Living Limited 
Kier Partnership Homes Limited
Corporate Kier Limited
4
Notes:
1
 Each entity operates principally within the United Kingdom, unless 
indicated otherwise. Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited also 
operates in Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Carribean.
2
 The Group has entered into partnership agreements with Harlow 
Council, North Tyneside Council, Sheffield City Council and  
Stoke-on-Trent City Council whereby the respective councils 
have a participating ownership interest and receive a minority 
share of the profits of Kier Harlow Limited, Kier North Tyneside 
Limited, Kier Sheffield LLP and Kier Stoke Limited.
3
 The ordinary share capital of all entities is wholly owned and held 
indirectly by Kier Group plc unless indicated otherwise.
4
 Shares held directly by Kier Group plc.
Other subsidiaries
2020 Knowsley Limited
2020 Liverpool Limited 
2020 Oldham Limited 
2020 Sefton Limited 
2020 St Helens Limited 
2020 Wirral Limited 
Absolute Forbury Limited
Absolute Property Limited
Absolute Swindon Limited
A C Chesters & Son Limited
AK Student Living Limited (50%)
Allison Homes Eastern Limited
Atkins Odlin Consulting Engineers Limited
Ayton Asphalte Company Limited
Bellwinch Homes Limited
Bellwinch Homes (Western) Limited
Bellwinch Limited
Brazier Construction Limited
Building & Construction Company Limited
Caribbean Construction Company Limited
 (incorporated in Jamaica)
Caxton Integrated Services Holdings Limited
Clearbox Limited
Concordia Bath Management Company Limited
Connect 21 Community Limited
Constantine Place (Longstanton) Management Company Limited
Coombe Project Management Limited
Cowley Mill Road Management Company Limited
DownerMouchel (incorporated in Australia) Services Pty Limited (50%)
Dudley Coles Limited
ECT Engineering Limited
Elsea Park Bourne Management Company Limited
Engage Lambeth Limited (52%)
Engineered Products Limited
FDT Associates Limited
FDT Contracts Limited
FDT (Holdings) Limited
Full Circle Educational Services Limited
Gas 300 Limited
Genica Limited
Greenfinch Limited (50%)
HBS Facilities Management Limited
Heatherwood (Thetford) Management Company Limited
Hedra Group Limited
Hedra Scotland Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Henry Jones Construction Limited
Henry Jones Limited
IEI Limited
Instal Consultants MP Limited
Javelin Construction Company Limited
J L Kier & Company Limited
J L Kier & Company (London) Limited
Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Holdings Limited
Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk) Limited
Kier Benefits Limited
Kier Build Limited
Kier Building Limited
Kier Business Services Limited
Kier Caribbean & Industrial Limited
Kier (Catterick) Limited 
Kier CB Limited
Kier Commercial Investments Limited
Kier Commercial UKSC Limited
Kier Construction Limited (incorporated in St Kitts) Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
165
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Kier Construction SA
 (incorporated in Haiti)
Kier Engineering Services Limited
Kier Group AESOP Trustees Limited
4
Kier Group Trustees Limited
4
Kier Homes Caledonia Limited
Kier Homes Northern Limited
Kier International (Investments) Limited
Kier International Limited
Kier International SRL
 (incorporated in Romania)
Kier Jamaica Development Limited
Kier (Kent) PSP Limited
Kier Land Limited
Kier Living Limited
4
Kier London Limited
Kier MG Building Limited
Kier MG Group Limited
Kier MG (Regional) Limited
Kier MG (Technical Services) Limited
Kier MG Trustees Limited
Kier Midlands Limited
Kier Minerals Limited
Kier Mining Investments Limited
Kier Mortimer Limited
Kier National Limited
Kier North East Limited
Kier (NR) Limited
Kier Overseas (Fifteen) Limited
Kier Overseas (Four) Limited
Kier Overseas (Fourteen) Limited
Kier Overseas (Nine) Limited
Kier Overseas (Nineteen) Limited
Kier Overseas (Seventeen) Limited
Kier Overseas (Six) Limited
Kier Overseas (Twelve) Limited
Kier Overseas (Twenty-Four) Limited
Kier Overseas (Twenty-Three) Limited
Kier Overseas (Two) Limited
Kier Professional Services Limited
Kier Property Developments Limited 
Kier Property Management Company Limited
Kier PSP (Kent) Limited
Kier Scotland Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Kier South East Limited
Kier Southern Limited
Kier Thurrock Limited
Kier UKSC LLP
Kier USA Inc
Kier Ventures UKSC Limited
Kier Whitehall Place Limited
KM Docklands Hotel Limited
Lambeth Learning Partnership (PSP) Limited (65%)
Land Aspects Limited 
Lazenby & Wilson Limited
Liferange Limited
Marriott Limited
Mayflower Park Management Company Limited
May Gurney Social Club Limited
MGWSP Essex Limited
Michco 210 Limited
MKB Resourcing Limited
Morrell-Ixworth Limited
Moss Construction Northern Limited
Moss Construction Southern Limited
Mouchel Dormant Holdings Limited
Mouchel Engineering Consultants Private Limited
 (incorporated in India)
Mouchel Ewan Limited
Mouchel Finance & Treasury Holdings Limited
Mouchel Finance Limited
Mouchel Gas 301 Limited
Mouchel Gas 302 Limited
Mouchel Holdings Limited
Mouchel Insurance Ltd (99.99%)
 (incorporated in Guernsey)
Mouchel International (Jersey) Ltd
 (incorporated in Jersey)
Mouchel International Limited 
 (incorporated in Ireland)
Mouchel Ireland Ltd
Mouchel Management Consulting Limited
Mouchel Middle East Limited (99%)
 (incorporated in Hong Kong)
Mouchel Parkman Ewan Associates Limited
Mouchel Parkman Ewan Services Limited
Mouchel Parkman GB Limited
Mouchel Parkman LDA Limited
Mouchel Parkman Metro Limited
Mouchel Parkman (NI) Limited
Mouchel Parkman Property Management Limited
Mouchel Parkman Servigroup Limited
Mouchel Parkman ServiRail Construction Projects Limited
Mouchel Parkman Serviservices Limited
Mouchel Parkman Serviways Limited
Mouchel Pty Ltd 
 (incorporated in Australia)
Mouchel Rail Limited
Mouchel Rail No. 2 Limited
Mouchel Rail No. 3 Limited
Mouchel South Africa Pty Limited (49%)
 (incorporated in South Africa)
Mouchel Traffic Support Limited
Mouchel Trustee Limited
MPHBS Limited
Newbury King & Co Limited
New Learning Limited 
Norfolk Community Recycling Services Limited
Parkman Botswana (Pty) Limited (99%)
 (incorporated in Botswana)
Parkman Consultants Limited
Parkman Consulting Engineers 
Parkman Group Professional Services Limited 
Parkman Holdings Limited
Parkman Kenya Limited
 (incorporated in Kenya)
Parkman Nigeria Limited
 (incorporated in Nigeria)
Parkman Scotland Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Parkman South East Limited
PCE Holdings Limited 
PFI Street Lighting Limited 
Prospect Healthcare (Ipswich) Holdings Limited
Prospect Healthcare (Ipswich) Limited
Ridham 2 Limited
Riley Builders Limited
Robert Marriott Group Limited
Saudi Kier Construction Limited
 (incorporated in Saudi Arabia)
Saxonwood Bardney Management Company Limited
Sea Place Management Limited
Seaspray Property Management Company Limited
Senturion (BidCo) Limited
Senturion Group Limited
Senturion (MidCo) Limited
Senturion Trustees Limited
Sheff Schools Topco Limited
Social Power (Harlow) Holdings Limited
Social Power (Harlow) Limited
St Walstan’s Management Company Limited
T Cartledge Limited
Tempsford Cedars Limited
Tempsford Holdings Limited
4
Tempsford Oaks Limited
4
T H Construction Limited
T J Brent Limited
Traffic Support EBT Limited
Tudor Homes (East Anglia) Limited
Turriff Contractors Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Turriff Group Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Turriff Smart Services Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Twigden Homes Limited
Twigden Homes Southern Limited
Underground Moling Services Limited
 (incorporated in Scotland)
Usherlink Limited
Wallis Builders Limited
Wallis Limited
Wallis Western Limited
W & C French (Construction) Limited
William Moss Civil Engineering Limited
William Moss Group Limited
Wygate Management Company Limited Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
166
Principal joint arrangements
Joint ventures Interest held Interest held
Property
3 Sovereign Square Holdings 1 LLP 50% Lysander Student Properties Operations Limited 50%
3 Sovereign Square Holdings 2 LLP 50% Premier Inn Kier Limited 50%
3 Sovereign Square LLP 50% Solum Regeneration (Bishops) LLP 50%
Alliance Community Partnership Limited 
 (incorporated in Scotland) 10%
Solum Regeneration Epsom (GP Subsidiary) Limited
Solum Regeneration Epsom (GP) Limited
50%
50%
Biogen Gwyriad Limited 26% Solum Regeneration (Epsom) Limited Partnership 50%
Biogen Holdings Limited 50% Solum Regeneration Epsom (Residential) LLP 50%
Biogen (UK) Limited 50% Solum Regeneration (Guildford) LLP 50%
Biogen Waen Limited 27.5% Solum Regeneration (Haywards) LLP 50%
Dragon Lane Holdings 1 LLP 50% Solum Regeneration (Kingswood) LLP 50%
Dragon Lane Holdings 2 LLP 50% Solum Regeneration (Maidstone) LLP 50%
Fore UK 1B LP 29% Solum Regeneration (Redhill) LLP 50%
Kent LEP 1 Limited 80% Solum Regeneration (Surbiton) LLP 50%
Kier Foley Street Holdco 1 LLP 90% Solum Regeneration (Tanner) LLP 50%
Kier Foley Street Holdco 2 LLP 90% Solum Regeneration (Tonbridge) LLP 50%
Kier Foley Street LLP 90% Solum Regeneration (Twickenham) LLP 50%
Kier Hammersmith Holdco Limited 50% Solum Regeneration (Wembley) LLP 50%
Kier Hammersmith Limited 50% Staffordshire Property Partnership Joint Venture Limited 50%
Kier Reading Holdco 1 LLP 90% Transcend Property Limited 50%
Kier Reading Holdco 2 LLP 90% Tri-Link 140 Holdings 1 LLP 50%
Kier Sydenham GP Holdco Limited 50% Tri-Link 140 Holdings 2 LLP 50%
Kier Sydenham Limited 50% Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP 50%
Kier Sydenham GP Limited 50%
Kier Sydenham LP 50% Long-term concession holdings under the Private Finance Initiative
Kier Sydenham Nominee Limited 50% Blue 3 (London) (Holdings) Limited 50%
Kier Trade City Holdco 1 LLP 90% Blue 3 (London) Limited 50%
Kier Trade City Holdco 2 LLP 90% Blue 3 (Staffs) (Holdings) Limited 80%
Kier Trade City LLP 90% Blue 3 (Staffs) Limited 80%
Kier Warth Limited 50% Evolution (Woking) Holdings Limited 50%
Lysander Student Properties Investments Limited 50% Evolution (Woking) Limited 50%
Lysander Student Properties Limited 50% Salford Village Limited 25%
Services Construction
Hackney Schools for the Future Limited 40% ASK Joint Venture incorporated in UAE 49%
Mouchel Babcock Education Investments Limited 50% Besix-Kier Dabhol Société anonyme incorporated in Belgium 40%
Mouchel Babcock Education Services Limited 
Mouchel IRE Limited incorp. in Ukraine
50%
50%
Kier ASGC JV incorporated in UAE 50%
Network Information Services Limited 50%
Kier Construction LLC incorporated in 
Abu Dhabi
49%
Pevensey Coastal Defence Limited 6% Kier Dubai LLC incorporated in UAE 49%
Team Van Oord Limited 25% Kier Graham Defence Limited 50%
The Impact Partnership (Rochdale Borough) Limited 80% Rathenraw Limited 50%
The Unity Partnership Limited 67%
Saudi Comedat Company Limited incorporated in 
Saudi Arabia
25%
Vinci Mouchel Limited 50%
Principal joint operations
UK International
Crossrail Contracts 
300/410/435
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, BAM Nuttall Limited and Ferrovial 
Agroman (UK) Limited
The following joint operations, in which the Group participation is between 
30% and 65%, operate overseas in the territory indicated:
Crossrail Contracts 
501/511
a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited and BAM Nuttall Limited 
Deephams a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Sons Limited, and 
Aecom Limited
MTRC Contract 824 a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, Kaden Construction Limited and 
Obras Subterráneas S.A.
Hercules a joint arrangement between Kier Construction Limited, 
Kier Living Limited and Balfour Beatty
MTRC Contract 901 a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, Laing O’Rourke Hong Kong Limited 
and Kaden Construction Limited
Hinkley Point C a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited and BAM Nuttall Limited
Notes:
1
 Joint operations are contracted agreements to co-operate on 
a specific project which is an extension of the Group’s existing 
business. Joint ventures are ongoing businesses carrying on their  
own trade.
2
 Except where otherwise stated the companies are incorporated 
and operate in the United Kingdom.
3
 Interests in the above joint ventures are held by subsidiary 
undertakings.
4
 The joint ventures where the Group has an interest in excess of 50% 
are still considered joint ventures as the Group still has joint control.
KCD a joint arrangement between Kier MG Limited and 
Clancy Docwra Limited
Kier WSP a joint arrangement between Kier MG Limited and 
WSP UK Limited
KMI a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Sons Limited and Interserve 
Project Services Limited
KMI Plus a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Sons Limited, Interserve 
Project Services Limited and Mouchel Limited 
Mersey Gateway a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited, Samsung C&T ECUK Limited and 
FCC Construccion S.A.
South Hook a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and 
Overseas Limited and NV Besix SA Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
167
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168
Financial record
(unaudited)
Continuing operations
Year ended 30 June
2015
£m
2014
3
£m
2013
3
£m
2012
3
£m
2011
3
£m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures 3,351.2 2,937.8 1,958.3 2,039.0 2,140.1
Less share of joint ventures (75.3) (30.9) (39.8) (38.7) (55.8)
Group revenue 3,275.9 2,906.9 1,918.5 2,000.3 2,084.3
Profit
Group operating profit
1
81.0 79.6 41.9 52.8 50.2
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 7.9 1.6 0.9 1.3 0.4
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 14.8 6.1 9.8 6.7 5.9
Underlying operating profit
1
103.7 87.3 52.6 60.8 56.5
Underlying net finance costs
1
(17.8) (13.6) (6.7) (2.5) (4.0)
Underlying profit before tax
1
85.9 73.7 45.9 58.3 52.5
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights (11.2) (10.8) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4)
Non-underlying finance costs (3.6) (5.3) (1.3) (2.3) (0.4)
Other non-underlying items (31.6) (42.2) (17.0) (3.6) 7.0
Profit before tax 39.5 15.4 24.2 49.0 55.7
Underlying basic earnings per share
1,2
96.0p 87.5p 78.9p 107.4p 91.4p
Dividend per share
2
55.2p 57.6p 54.3p 52.7p 51.1p
At 30 June
Shareholders’ funds (£m) 585.4 309.7 158.3 154.2 164.2
Net assets per share
2
615.2p 447.8p 317.5p 317.4p 343.8p
1
 Stated before non-underlying items (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). 
2
 Restated to reflect the impact of the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction (see note 24 to the 
consolidated financial statements).
3
 Restated to reflect the impact of discontinued operations (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
168
Corporate information
Board of directors
P M White CBE
H J Mursell
B E J Dew
N P Brook
N A Turner
C Veritiero
R C Bailey
A K Bashforth
A J Mellor
N P Winser CBE
Secretary
H E E Raven 
Headquarters and registered office
Kier Group plc
Tempsford Hall
Sandy
Bedfordshire
SG19 2BD
Registered number
England 2708030
Financial calendar
12 November 2015
Annual general meeting
27 November 2015
Payment of final dividend for year ended 30 June 2015
March 2016
Announcement of half-year results and interim dividend for 
year ending 30 June 2016
May 2016
Payment of interim dividend for year ending 30 June 2016
September 2016
Announcement of preliminary full-year results and  
final dividend for year ending 30 June 2016
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London 
E14 5HP
Lloyds Banking Group plc
10 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7AE
HSBC Bank plc
Metropolitan House
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2GA
Santander UK plc
2 Triton Square
Regent’s Place
London
NW1 3AN
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Financial advisers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT Go online to find out more
Our corporate website has key information 
covering our capabilities, markets, corporate 
responsibility and investor relations.
Join the conversation
Engage with us and keep up with the latest 
news and developments via social media.
Credits:
Page 45 – Crossrail Ltd 
Page 46 –  Hufton+Crow (Photographer),  
Bennetts Associates (Architects) 
Page 51 – Thames Water
Page 53 – iStock.com/_ultraforma
Printed on Amadeus Primo Silk which is produced using 
wood fibre from fully responsible forests with FSC
®
 
certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free 
(ECF). The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and 
EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Consultancy, design and production by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk
www.kier.co.uk Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Kier Group plc
Tempsford Hall, Sandy
Bedfordshire SG19 2BD
Tel: 01767 355000
www.kier.co.uk
