 Ladbrokes plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report and accounts 2015
BUILDING A BETTER LADBROKES 2015 highlights
  GROUP
 – Group net revenue up 2.1% (up 4.2% excluding  
World Cup)
 – Operating profit
(1)
 excluding High Rollers at 
£80.6m reflects investment in our new strategy 
announced in July and increased taxation
 – Statutory operating loss of £15.4m reflects 
exceptional items of £99.0m mainly related 
to shop impairments and transaction costs
 – Strategy reset in July 2015, encouraging 
customer metrics in H2
 – Ladbrokes announces proposed merger with  
the Coral Group to form Ladbrokes Coral plc
GROUP 
NET REVENUE £M
+2.1%
£1,199.5
+2.1%
£1,174.6
+5.1%
£1,117.7
+3.1%
2015 2014 2013
 RETAIL
 – UK Retail net revenue up 2.0% (3.5% excluding  
World Cup)
 – Self Service Betting Terminal roll out complete, 
encouraging staking growth delivered
 – Machines growth driven by lower-staking 
B3 and slots
RETAIL 
NET REVENUE £M
+2.0%
£827.4
+2.0%
£811.5
+1.3%
£800.9
+8.3%
2015 2014 2013
DIGITAL
 – Sportsbook staking up 29%
(2)
 – Gaming net revenue up 13.3%
(2)
 – Total actives up 15%
(2)
TOTAL DIGITAL
(3)
 
NET REVENUE £M
+12.9%
£242.8
+12.9% £215.1
+22.9%
£175.0
-1.7%
2015 2014 2013
AUSTRALIA
 – Staking up 47%, net revenue up 54%, 
actives up 65%
 – Number 3 in brand awareness
(4)
 from 
a  standing start two years ago
AUSTRALIA 
NET REVENUE £M
+53.8%
£53.2
+53.8%
£34.6
+765%
£4.0
2015 2014 2013
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
(2) Ladbrokes.com
(3) Includes Ladbrokes.com and Exchanges, Australia and other regulated operations.
(4) Among corporate bookmakers.
  We aim to make Ladbrokes the best  
loved brand, with a focus on growing 
our recreational customer base by 
giving them the best betting experiences. 
We are investing in retail, digital and new 
markets so that wherever, however 
and whenever our customers choose 
to bet, we are their bookmaker of choice.
Building a better Ladbrokes
CONTENTS
Strategic report
02  Chairman’s statement
04  Group at a glance
06  Business model
08  The betting year 2015
10  Strategic priorities
12  Chief Executive’ s review
17  Wherever, however, whenever
18  UK Retail
20  Digital
22  European Retail
23  T elephone and High Rollers
24  Financial review
26  Risks and how we manage them
31  Corporate responsibility
Governance
36  Board of directors
38  Corporate Governance
51  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
72  Directors’ Report
Statutory reports and financial statements
75    Statement of directors’ responsibilities
76   Independent auditors’ report to the  
members of Ladbrokes plc
84  Consolidated income statement
85   Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
86  Consolidated balance sheet
87   Consolidated statement of changes in equity
88  Consolidated statement of cash flows
89   Notes to the consolidated financial statements
129 Company financial statements
130  Company balance sheet
131   Notes to the Company financial statements
141   Five year financial record
142  Shareholder information
143  Corporate information
144 Glossary
01 “ The task is clear , ‘Build a Better Ladbrokes’ 
and deliver the growth to return the business 
to one that wins more customers and 
rewards shareholders.”
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
With this in mind the immediate future for Ladbrokes is one 
of opportunity and expectation.
It was with a sense of pride that at the end of 2015 I stepped up 
to be Chairman of what I regard as one of the biggest and most 
influential bookmakers. It is a great honour to lead this Company  
but it also comes with a weight of expectation as we look forward 
to 2016. I am acutely aware that shareholders have seen recent 
false dawns and am mindful that your patience has been tested. 
While we have ended 2015 confident in the plans laid out by our 
Chief Executive, Jim Mullen, both for organic growth and for the 
proposed merger with the Coral Group, we have to acknowledge 
that these plans come at a cost. The cut in profits and the dividend 
were necessary steps as part of our journey.
But the task for Ladbrokes is to look forward. 2016 will be an 
exciting year full of opportunities. The organic plan to grow is 
showing encouraging signs and creating a belief in our ability 
to deliver scale and drive Ladbrokes back to former heights 
and beyond. 
The proposed merger with Coral is a fast track to scale and we are 
pleased that shareholders gave it such a vote of confidence at the 
General Meeting in November 2015. The competition authorities will 
not be easy to satisfy, but if we are successful, as we expect to be, 
the opportunities created are compelling.
Building for long term 
The appointment of Jim Mullen came after the Board decided that 
a new approach was needed for the business. The task set out 
to him was clear, build a stronger Ladbrokes and gain the scale 
needed to compete ever more effectively in a challenging market.
Jim and his team were quick to move the business away from the 
short-term approach that had dominated, to one with a clear plan 
and longer term targets. Jim has united the Company behind his 
plan to create a business with more recreational customers, more 
digital revenue and growing profits by 2017.
He has been clear from day one, that the talent in the business 
never left, it just needed the encouragement and investment to 
demonstrate its expertise, particularly around sport. It has been  
a focus of his tenure and we believe the encouraging customer 
metrics seen in the second half reflect well on just how much 
talent there is in the business.
02 ladbrokesplc.com In parallel to Jim’s ambition to get Ladbrokes back as the 
sports betting destination of choice for the recreational 
customer, he also took forward the discussion on the potential 
merger with Coral to the point where we now are going through 
the competition authority process to bring this to fruition. 
Throughout the year ahead, the Board are clear on the 
executive team’s task, focus on delivery of the day to day 
business, increase our appeal to the recreational customer 
and be ready to exploit the opportunities offered by the merger. 
Merger
The rationale behind our merger is clear. Organically our plan 
recognises that we need to grow to have scale to compete even 
more effectively in the market. It will create an industry leading 
retail, digital and international business with huge potential to  
build scale, and gain wide customer appeal.
We will have the opportunity to create a leading management 
team by choosing the best of both brands in terms of people, 
systems and operational excellence. Crucially it also offers 
significant ongoing synergy benefits of at least £65 million per 
annum after year three.
The case for the merger is one that you have already backed 
loud and clear but none of us underestimate the challenge 
in execution.
Leading the way
2015 has seen yet more change in our market as the ever 
growing burden of regulation and taxation created the rationale 
for consolidation. We were quick to realise that this challenge 
offered an opportunity and moved early with our proposed 
merger. Others followed and over time we expect more to do so.
We have also seen the continued evolution of the customer 
and their habits, both on the High Street and in the digital world. 
The customer expectation of a good retail offer is evolving and 
that is why we have, and will, continue to look to innovate and to 
build a multi-channel, or ‘One Ladbrokes’ approach, as we call it.
Regulation
As ever we continue to face regulatory and political headwinds. 
In recent years, we have seen the introduction of Point of 
Consumption tax, increases in Machines Games Duty, 
machine stake regulations and advertising restrictions. 
We are a business in a sector where we accept that there 
should be an appropriate level of regulation. However, after 
such high levels of change in such a short period we do believe 
that it is time for there to be a pause, so that all the changes 
can bed in and their effectiveness be properly assessed.
While some of the change is outside our control, we seek to lead 
the industry in best practice. We have actively led and supported 
self regulation initiatives such as the Senet Group and we remain 
committed to focusing on fulfilling our license objectives and 
delivering a safe and responsible offer to our customers. 
Board focus
Your Board has undergone several changes this year and 
after over six years as Chairman, Peter Erskine stood down 
in December. He leaves with our very best wishes and thanks 
for all his hard work.
Darren Shapland also stood down from the Board after six years, 
five as Chair of the Audit Committee. We were delighted towards 
the end of the financial year to announce that Mark Pain would 
be joining as the new Chair of the Audit Committee, a role he 
will maintain in Ladbrokes Coral PLC. Mark has tremendous 
experience as both an executive and non executive Director  
and I am delighted that he has agreed to join us. 
Finally in September we announced that this year’s set of results 
would be the last for Ian Bull as our Chief Financial Officer. He left 
us in early 2016 and has been replaced by Richard Snow, who 
was our Director of Investor Relations. Richard is a chartered 
accountant by training and has spent his career in banking and  
in public companies. He will not join the Board but will attend all 
Board meetings.
With the option of a potential merger ahead, it is not surprising 
that there is a changing of the guard on the Board. Indeed 
I think it is essential that we keep the thinking and overview of 
the business fresh while maintaining experience and knowledge. 
As a Board we are keen to ensure that we take a detailed 
view on not just the issues of today but also longer-term ones. 
You won’t be surprised to know that key decisions such as the 
merger, our refinancing and the examinership process in the 
Republic of Ireland were all heavily discussed as well as those 
for the longer term such as talent management, culture and 
risk management systems. You can see more on our activities 
in the Corporate Governance section.
Looking ahead
As I said in my introduction, 2016 is a year both of excitement 
and expectation for Ladbrokes.
We have a strong brand and a team that is enabling that brand to 
punch its weight in a very competitive market. We are determined 
to build on this foundation for the benefit of our customers, 
shareholders and employees.
The merger, should it be approved, will give us execution 
challenges. While we will allocate the resources to ensure we hit 
the ground running, we will be prudent in our approach and not 
risk our standalone performance. This will be a balancing act but 
the Board aim to ensure it is one we deliver.
We are confident that while 2016 will be as competitive as ever, 
we have the right leader, the right team and the right plan to get 
our brand back to what it does best; sports betting expertise 
allied to competitive products and excellent customer focus.
There is now a clear sense of purpose and belief amongst our 
people and this cannot be underestimated, because as ever it  
is our people who will be the key to our success and we remain 
thankful for all their hard work and dedication. The value it 
provides will never be taken for granted.
John M Kelly
Chairman
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03 Strategic report
GROUP NET REVENUE
(1)
£1,195.5m
+3.2%
OPERATING PROFIT 
(1)(2)
£80.6m
-35.7%
DIVIDEND
3.0p
2014: 8.9p
UK RETAIL
69.2%
Our traditional business.  
Still relevant to our customers 
and a strong generator 
of cash flow.
EUROPEAN RETAIL
10.0%
Ladbrokes has extended its 
retail expertise to European 
markets including Spain, 
Belgium and Ireland.
DIGITAL
20.3%
Digital and Mobile sportsbetting 
is the fastest growing betting 
and gaming market.
TELEPHONE
0.5%
Telephone betting remains 
relevant to some customers.
£1,195.5m
Group net revenue
(1)
We announced an aggressive three year 
investment programme in July 2015 to build a 
better Ladbrokes. The 2015 results reflect the 
need to carry out this significant investment to 
build our recreational customer base. The plan is 
based on ensuring that the customer and sports 
betting is front and centre in all that we do.
(1) Excluding High Rollers. We exclude High Rollers to provide information on the underlying performance of the Group as they vary significantly year on year.
(2) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items of £99.3m (2014: £73.4m). After including profit from High Rollers of £3.3m (2014: £14.2m) 
and deducting exceptional items of £99.3m (2014: £73.4m) the statutory loss before interest expense and tax was £15.4m (2014: profit of £66.2m).
04 ladbrokesplc.com
Group at a glance Ladbrokes is a familiar name on British highstreets. 
Revenue is driven by traditional Over the Counter (OTC) 
betting on football, horse and greyhound racing as 
well as other sports and by machines.
We operate successful retail businesses in Ireland, 
Belgium and Spain where our joint venture enjoys 
increasing brand recognition and is growing strongly.
Our Digital business is aimed at giving customers  
a great user experience whenever and however they 
choose to bet. With mobile now accounting for circa 
71% of our sportsbook staking our focus has been 
to evolve our product in line with the ever changing 
customer preferences.
Despite a growing customer preference for betting 
online, traditional telephone betting remains popular 
with a number of customers. We also operate a 
telephone service for our High Roller customers.
UK RETAIL
EUROPEAN  RETAIL
DIGITAL
TELEPHONE
Net revenue
£827.4m
+2.0%
Net revenue
£119.8m
-1.9%
Net revenue
£242.8m
+12.9%
Net revenue
£5.5m
-46.1%
Operating profit
(1)
£116.1m
-2.7%
Operating profit
(1)
£14.5m
+11.5%
Number of outlets
2,135
+16.8%
Operating loss
(1)
£-23.8m
-270.0%
Operating loss
(1)
£-2.2m
-210.0%
Average  
number of shops
2,177
 
Unique  
active players
(2)
1,104,000
+15%
High Rollers  
operating profit
(1)
£3.3m
-76.8%
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
(2) Ladbrokes.com only.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Strategic report
Business model
Ladbrokes aim to deliver  
long-term value to share- 
holders and an exciting  
gambling experience 
to customers.
Our business is built on bookmaking 
expertise delivered through retail  
and telephone operations as well 
as Mobile and Digital services.
We are a brand leader in the UK, Ireland 
and Belgium, a growing force through  
our joint venture in Spain and we are 
developing good business opportunities  
in other key territories.
We aim to be available to the customer  
at their convenience and provide a fun 
experience wherever, however and 
whenever they choose to play with us.
We leverage our resources
through all channels
in our chosen markets
remaining aware of our responsibilities
to deliver our promise
AN EXCITING AND ENGAGING GAMING EXPERIENCE
and to generate returns and long-term value
Brand leadership
Trading expertise and systems
Heritage
Market insight
Technology
Best of breed product
Best in class partners and  
supplier relationships
Regulation Responsible 
gambling
Community 
engagement
Dividends 
to shareholders
Interest and  
repayments 
to bond holders
Investment in our 
people, operations  
and businesses
Retail Digital
Established
UK • Ireland • Belgium
New
Australia • US • China • Spain
We are a regulated business and 
take our regulatory licensing conditions 
seriously. In delivering our strategy 
we regard health and safety and 
responsible gambling as a non-
negotiable in how we go about our 
everyday business.
06 ladbrokesplc.com Customers enjoy placing a bet to enhance  
the fun of a sporting event and to experience 
the excitement offered by casino games.
Customers could 
choose to recycle 
winnings as 
they often have 
a set level of 
spend they are 
comfortable with.
Customer places bet
Customer 
wins
Customer 
loses
Contributes  
to Group  
revenue
Retail
UK • Europe
Digital
Mobile • tablet • desktop
Customer  
recycles  
their winnings
Customer  
keeps their 
winnings
Wagers can be  
placed on the high 
street in our shops 
or via our Digital 
and Mobile services.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Life of a bet The Six Nations was one of the most exciting in recent 
history. England, Ireland and Wales went into the final 
weekend all equal on six points and it was inevitable the title 
would come down to points difference. What ensued was 
the highest scoring weekend of the Six Nations on record, 
with all three teams in contention covering the handicap 
and costing bookmakers dearly. Ireland’s tournament win 
(2/1 beforehand) was a decent consolation.
Frankie Dettori riding the favourite to victory in The Derby 
was never likely to be a good result. Golden Horn’s win 
at Epsom was just the first of a string of costly big race 
triumphs as he went on to take the Eclipse, Champion 
Stakes and Arc carrying customers with him all the way.
Strategic report
JANUARY
PDC Darts World 
Championship 
Gary Anderson may have been 
the 5/1 third favourite coming 
into the PDC Darts World 
Championship, but some 
shrewd customers had taken 
25/1 and bigger in the months 
leading up to the tournament 
so while it was not the worst 
result in the book for us, it 
wasn’t the best either.
MAY
Mayweather v Pacquiao 
The Fight of the Century went 
exactly as our oddsmakers 
predicted with a points win for 
Mayweather over Pacquiao and 
a £1 million pound plus profit for 
Ladbrokes in the biggest betting 
heat in boxing history. 
Unfortunately, all of that and more 
went back to political punters 
five days later as a shock Tory 
majority in the general election 
cost us dearly. One Glasgow shop 
customer collected almost a quarter 
of a million on a £30,000 bet at 7/1.
FEBRUARY
Super Bowl
The New England Patriots’ 
dramatic win over the Seattle 
Seahawks turned out to be one 
of the best sporting results of 
the entire year for Ladbrokes. 
In-running betting was huge, 
as the result was still in doubt 
down to the last few seconds 
of the match.
APRIL
Grand National
Many Clouds’ 33/1 victory 
made it three great results 
in a row in the biggest race 
of the year. We had been 
sweating on a huge payout 
had Tony McCoy’s last ever 
ride on Shutthefrontdoor, been 
successful. In the end, despite 
leading for a long time and 
causing us some concern, 
he faded into fifth place.
The betting year 2015
MARCH
THE SIX 
NATIONS
JUNE
THE DERBY
Key events of 2015
08 ladbrokesplc.com The Ladbrokes St Leger proved to be one of the biggest 
horse racing stories of the year. Simple Verse passed 
the winning post in first place only to be disqualified by 
the Stewards on the day, seemingly handing the world’s 
oldest Classic to Bondi Beach. The story didn’t end 
there; an appeal was lodged and weeks later the British 
Horseracing Authority sensationally reversed the decision 
and handed the victory back to Simple Verse. Ladbrokes 
paid out backers of both horses, costing us an extra £1m, 
but the month-long publicity surrounding the race 
softened the blow.
Ante-post betting slips around the country were being 
torn up as pre-season favourites Chelsea drifted from 5/4 
to 100/1 to win the Premier League following a dismal run 
of form for The Blues. Conversely, Leicester City’s incredible 
start saw bookies sweating on some potential huge payouts 
to fans who had backed them at odds as big as 5,000/1.
AUGUST
Challenge Cup
Rugby League may not, to some, 
be considered a mainstream 
sport, but to its passionate 
supporters it is number one for 
both the dedication and sporting 
excellence of the stars that play.
In 2015 we took up the 
sponsorship of the Challenge Cup, 
the most prestigious tournament 
in rugby league. It has been a 
great success. Not only has it 
engaged our northern customers, 
but we gained national television 
exposure culminating in The 
Challenge Cup Final, a well 
watched event with Ladbrokes’ 
branding everywhere.
OCTOBER
Rugby World Cup
Despite favourites New 
Zealand winning the Rugby 
World Cup (and England’s 
early exit), record breaking 
in-play betting resulted in a 
hugely profitable tournament. 
A few surprise results helped, 
notably Japan’s incredible 
66/1 win over South Africa.
DECEMBER
Fury v Klitschko
Despite Tyson Fury being a 
4/1 outsider to beat Klitschko, 
patriotic punters in the shops 
made this a small losing result 
for the books.
JULY
Wimbledon
Ante-post favourites Djokovic 
and Serena Williams both 
delivered at Wimbledon and 
a string of pre-tournament 
doubles hit bookmakers 
everywhere.
Zach Johnson’s win in the Open 
play-off saw a £1 million swing in 
our favour over Racing Post tip, 
Louis Oosthuizen. Otherwise 
the golfing year was dominated 
by punters’ favourites Spieth, 
Day and McIlroy.
SEPTEMBER
THE 
ST LEGER 
NOVEMBER
PREMIER 
LEAGUE
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 Strategic report
STRATEGY PILLARS PROGRESS SINCE JULY PRIORITIES IN 2016 RELEVANT RISKS 2017 TARGETS
1  UK: GROW RECREATIONAL CUSTOMER BASE
 – Increase marketing: brand, call to action, sponsorship
 – Grow football customer base
 – Grow use of Self Service Betting Terminals
 – Reinforce sports betting culture and expertise
 – Grow Ladbrokes.com; sportsbook and mobile
 – Scottish Professional Football Leagues 
sponsorship launched
 – UK Retail football staking up 13% year 
on year since start of 2015/16 season 
 – Over 3,500 SSBTs rolled out, 8% 
of OTC staking in Q4 2015
 – Sporting Passion campaign launched 
and tablets for retail shops rolled out
 – Ladbrokes.com, sportsbook football 
staking growth of 37% in 2015
 – Mobile now 71% of sportsbook stakes
 – Continued increased 
marketing drive
 – Continued growth of 
football product
 – Delivery of England FA 
sponsorship opportunity
 – Grow SSBT staking
 – Sports Expert training 
to commence
 – Product evolution on 
Ladbrokes.com to drive 
greater sportsbook staking
 – Maximise opportunity 
of 2016 European 
championships
Betting and gaming industry
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
 – Increased cost of product
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
UK Retail
 – Net revenue per shop 
greater than full year 
2014 (World Cup year)
 – EBIT per shop greater 
than full year 2014 
(World Cup year)
Digital
 – Total Digital making 
up 30% of Group 
net revenue
 – Ladbrokes.com 
actives over 1.3m
 – Ladbrokes Australia  
net revenue greater  
than twice the 2014  
full year figure
2  UK: DEVELOP MULTI-CHANNEL
 – Innovate product and deliver better customer experience
 – Incentivise Ladbrokes colleagues
 – 35,000 multi-channel actives 
by end of 2015
 – My bets, cash out, cash in, 
track ‘My Accas’ launched 
 – One million uses of bet tracker 
by end of 2015
 – £20 - £30 incentive for each 
successful digital sign up 
launched for retail colleagues
 – 6,200 retail colleagues rewarded 
for recruiting digital customers
 – £1000+ earned by some 
colleagues through multi-channel 
recruitment incentives
 – Recruitment of more 
multi-channel customers
 – Product development 
to give customer better 
user experience
 – Further refinement of 
incentive for employees
 – Roll out multi-channel 
opportunities overseas
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
 – Increased cost of product
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
3  UK: INCREASE FOOTFALL IN RETAIL
 – Address historic under investment
 – Increase proportion of football customers
 – Roll out Self Service Betting Terminals to differentiate offer
 – Reinforce sports betting culture and expertise
 – Planning of works to address under 
investment undertaken in H2
 – 2ppts growth at end of Q4 for 
football as a percentage of staking
 – Over 3,500 SSBTs rolled out, 
UK estate now has 6,408
 – Sporting passion internal 
campaign launched
 – Shop fabric investment 
to roll out in H1 – 
c£11m committed
 – Target competitive  
shops for investment 
 – Grow SSBT staking
 – Sports Expert training 
to commence
 – Sporting Passion 
campaign to continue
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
Information technology and communications 
 – Technology failure
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
4  AUSTRALIA: GROW MARKET SHARE
 – Maintain aggressive marketing intensity
 – Grow product pipeline building on innovative brand reputation
 – No 3 in brand awareness
(1)
,  
from zero three years ago
 – Retail Cash in launched utilising 
1,000 newsagents
 – Bet In Play launched – delivered 
10% of staking
 – Successful delivery of 
Ladbrokes Park sponsorship 
(formerly Sandown Park) 
and Ladbrokes Caulfield 
Classic and Ladbrokes 
Caulfield Stakes
 – Continued investment 
in marketing 
 – Continued product evolution
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance 
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
(1) Among corporate bookmakers.
10 ladbrokesplc.com
Strategic priorities Building a better Ladbrokes  STRATEGY PILLARS PROGRESS SINCE JULY PRIORITIES IN 2016 RELEVANT RISKS 2017 TARGETS
1  UK: GROW RECREATIONAL CUSTOMER BASE
 – Increase marketing: brand, call to action, sponsorship
 – Grow football customer base
 – Grow use of Self Service Betting Terminals
 – Reinforce sports betting culture and expertise
 – Grow Ladbrokes.com; sportsbook and mobile
 – Scottish Professional Football Leagues 
sponsorship launched
 – UK Retail football staking up 13% year 
on year since start of 2015/16 season 
 – Over 3,500 SSBTs rolled out, 8% 
of OTC staking in Q4 2015
 – Sporting Passion campaign launched 
and tablets for retail shops rolled out
 – Ladbrokes.com, sportsbook football 
staking growth of 37% in 2015
 – Mobile now 71% of sportsbook stakes
 – Continued increased 
marketing drive
 – Continued growth of 
football product
 – Delivery of England FA 
sponsorship opportunity
 – Grow SSBT staking
 – Sports Expert training 
to commence
 – Product evolution on 
Ladbrokes.com to drive 
greater sportsbook staking
 – Maximise opportunity 
of 2016 European 
championships
Betting and gaming industry
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
 – Increased cost of product
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
UK Retail
 – Net revenue per shop 
greater than full year 
2014 (World Cup year)
 – EBIT per shop greater 
than full year 2014 
(World Cup year)
Digital
 – Total Digital making 
up 30% of Group 
net revenue
 – Ladbrokes.com 
actives over 1.3m
 – Ladbrokes Australia  
net revenue greater  
than twice the 2014  
full year figure
2  UK: DEVELOP MULTI-CHANNEL
 – Innovate product and deliver better customer experience
 – Incentivise Ladbrokes colleagues
 – 35,000 multi-channel actives 
by end of 2015
 – My bets, cash out, cash in, 
track ‘My Accas’ launched 
 – One million uses of bet tracker 
by end of 2015
 – £20 - £30 incentive for each 
successful digital sign up 
launched for retail colleagues
 – 6,200 retail colleagues rewarded 
for recruiting digital customers
 – £1000+ earned by some 
colleagues through multi-channel 
recruitment incentives
 – Recruitment of more 
multi-channel customers
 – Product development 
to give customer better 
user experience
 – Further refinement of 
incentive for employees
 – Roll out multi-channel 
opportunities overseas
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
 – Increased cost of product
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
3  UK: INCREASE FOOTFALL IN RETAIL
 – Address historic under investment
 – Increase proportion of football customers
 – Roll out Self Service Betting Terminals to differentiate offer
 – Reinforce sports betting culture and expertise
 – Planning of works to address under 
investment undertaken in H2
 – 2ppts growth at end of Q4 for 
football as a percentage of staking
 – Over 3,500 SSBTs rolled out, 
UK estate now has 6,408
 – Sporting passion internal 
campaign launched
 – Shop fabric investment 
to roll out in H1 – 
c£11m committed
 – Target competitive  
shops for investment 
 – Grow SSBT staking
 – Sports Expert training 
to commence
 – Sporting Passion 
campaign to continue
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
Information technology and communications 
 – Technology failure
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
4  AUSTRALIA: GROW MARKET SHARE
 – Maintain aggressive marketing intensity
 – Grow product pipeline building on innovative brand reputation
 – No 3 in brand awareness
(1)
,  
from zero three years ago
 – Retail Cash in launched utilising 
1,000 newsagents
 – Bet In Play launched – delivered 
10% of staking
 – Successful delivery of 
Ladbrokes Park sponsorship 
(formerly Sandown Park) 
and Ladbrokes Caulfield 
Classic and Ladbrokes 
Caulfield Stakes
 – Continued investment 
in marketing 
 – Continued product evolution
Betting and gaming industry 
 – Taxes, laws regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance 
Operational and bookmaking
 – Trading, liability management and pricing
 – Loss of key locations
 – Recruitment and retention of key employees 
and succession planning
Information technology and communications 
 – T e c h n o l o g y f a ilu r e
 – Data management
 – Failure in the supply chain
Marketplace
 – Competition
 – Health and safety
(1) Among corporate bookmakers.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Strategic report
“ In 2015, we made positive progress  
and customer traction with continued 
increases in Digital and UK Retail.  
We saw customers responding well  
to our products, our value and recently 
launched multi-channel offer.”
Overview
After a short and intense internal review, it was clear that we 
needed to change the way we ran the business, build scale, 
respond faster to the customer and create a sense of urgency 
across the business.
In July, we announced an aggressive three year investment 
programme to build our UK Retail, Digital and Australian 
recreational customer base. The plan is based on restoring 
a culture of sporting passion and pride in what we do at 
Ladbrokes and in ensuring that the recreational customer 
and sports betting is front and centre in all that we do. 
The plan was not without challenges and came at a cost as 
we sought to address urgently the need to invest more heavily 
in the business, with an inevitable and significant reduction in 
our profit expectations and cutting the dividend to finance our 
strategy for growth.
The fall in operating profit in 2015 highlights the reality of our 
situation, the significant burden of c.£50m increased tax and 
regulation on our industry and the financial impact of delivering 
the plan. 
It is pleasing that after two quarters of execution of our plan, 
we can report progress. We take encouragement that the 
customer metrics and revenue growth in H2 demonstrate a good 
response from our customers to our focus on people, product 
and promotions and reflect positively on some of the cultural 
and operational changes that have taken place. The challenge for 
Ladbrokes is to build on this start and remain intensely focused on 
reaching or exceeding the 2017 financial targets we set out in July.
12 ladbrokesplc.com
Chief Executive’s review The year ended with Group operating profit of £80.6m
(1)
, which 
was slightly ahead of expectations with better results in UK 
Retail in Q4 and somewhat stronger operational trends being 
the key drivers to this performance.
Within all our key strategy areas we saw improved performance 
in the second half, helping full year Group net revenue grow 
3.2% year on year (excluding High Rollers) against a period 
which included the 2014 World Cup. 
UK Retail in particular performed strongly and we saw an 
increasing contribution from our market leading Self Serving 
Betting Terminal (SSBT) estate and encouraging H2 OTC 
staking trends. Machines, where our strategy is to grow lower 
staking play through the regular introduction of new slots based 
games, also performed well. 
In Digital, the Point of Consumption (POC) tax, the increased 
H2 marketing investment required to implement our strategy 
and the loss we recorded from HVCs in Q1 contributed to a 
significant decline in profitability. However, while the full year 
reflected issues both within and outside of our control, we were 
encouraged by the exit trends we saw under the new strategy 
with net revenue growth in Q4 at 31.4% and Ladbrokes.com net 
revenue up 28.4%. 
Australia has been one of our strongest performing businesses 
and, despite strong competition in this market, it delivered net 
revenue up 70.9% in the year and up 76.3% in Q4 on local 
currency basis, somewhat ahead of our expectations in July. 
Strategy implementation
Following the announcement of our new strategy, the Group 
has focused on implementing its plan to grow recreational scale 
across UK Retail, Ladbrokes.com and Australia. This growth is 
being driven by increasing direct and brand marketing expenditure; 
through offering focused value propositions to our customers; 
and through the continuous delivery of innovative products, 
including, importantly, multi-channel products and services. 
UK Retail
In UK Retail, we have sought to increase our appeal to a wider 
recreational customer base through a focus on people, product 
and promotions. 
We have begun to engage our people on a journey that puts 
sports betting and sports expertise back at the heart of our 
offer. We have rolled out tablets to every shop to help promote 
better communication, training and product knowledge.  
We also established a retail experience programme to promote 
greater service standards in our retail estate and have recently 
begun the process to identify sports experts in every 
marketplace to help create the strongest sports betting 
proposition on the High Street. 
Our focus has largely been on attracting the recreational football 
customer and we have invested heavily in marketing and 
sponsorships that support this aim. We have also advertised 
more in key media across the UK with 26% year on year 
increases in red top and TV media. Staking for the 2015/16 
football season was up an encouraging 13.2% at the year 
end with gross win up 28.6% as the English premier league 
unpredictability contributed to a strong finish to the year. 
Our product initiatives have been based around two key 
innovations in our offer, SSBTs and multi-channel. 
We took the decision to create the UK’s largest SSBT estate, 
based on the growing customer interest we had seen in the 
existing offer. We successfully rolled out over 3,500 new  
SSBTs in H2 to complement our existing offer and now have  
at least one in every shop with some of our busier shops, as 
determined by our local management teams, hosting up to 
eight terminals.
The range of betting opportunities and markets held on each 
terminal creates the ability for the customer to create their own 
multiple bets across a multitude of sports and international 
territories from the convenience of the UK High Street.  
The performance of the SSBT product has been strong, 
growing from just 3% of OTC staking in Q4 2014 to over 8%  
at the end of 2015. They have proved popular in growing our 
appeal with customers in the 18-35 year old segment whose 
primary interest is in football and over 75% of SSBT staking is 
on football. In addition, they allow customers to bet in-play 
thereby aligning our retail offer with services our digital 
customers already enjoy, and while in play accounts for over 
30% of SSBT staking in Q4, we see this as an opportunity for 
further development. With the full roll out now complete, our 
attention has turned to optimising their performance through 
promotion of the product and enhancing the proposition.  
This will help them appeal to a wider range of customers as  
well as developing our in play business and driving more 
multiple bets.
Late in Q2 we launched our multi-channel (One Ladbrokes) 
offer following successful regional trials to attract the 
recreational customer and specifically targeted our launch 
to coincide with the football season. We are focused on 
growing digital actives through the combination of digital 
and OTC oriented technology products. 
The One Ladbrokes appeal is focused on a product driven 
strategy and already customers can take advantage of products 
such as retail cash out, bet status trackers, my Accas, live 
scoreboards and the ability to transfer winnings online. These 
facilities have proved incredibly popular with over one million bet 
tracker checks by the year end. The product appeals typically 
to the younger recreational customer, 56% of signs ups are 
under 35, and so far we have seen the value of these customers 
is greater than a pure Ladbrokes.com only customer. All selling 
of the multi-channel offer has been via our High Street shop 
estate utilising a retail distribution network of over 2,000 shops. 
GROWTH
(2)
 
IN MOBILE SPORTSBOOK
+69.4% 
INCREASE
IN OTC FOOTBALL STAKING
 +7.8% (in H2)
(1) Excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
(2) Ladbrokes.com
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategic report
We have allied market leading product with a cost effective 
cash incentive to our retail colleagues to recruit customers. 
I have been delighted by the response of our retail teams 
to our multi-channel offer and they have been central to 
us recruiting over 35,000 new digital actives by year end. 
Customer recruitment continues to progress well. We believe 
that this combination can continue to grow our multi-channel 
customer base further, a view backed up by the first few weeks 
of 2016 and further re-enforces our view that the retail estate 
still has a very active role in the modern High Street. 
We continue to see the benefit of investing some margin to 
deliver value offers to our customers in key sports through 
promotions such as Best Odds Guaranteed and Happy Hour 
or by products such as Top Prices Top Teams. Our colleagues 
tell us that they have driven the appeal of our retail offer as 
well as increased the belief of our own retail teams in our 
competitive proposition. It perhaps should not be a surprise 
that with this confidence in our people, the trends on our OTC 
business have improved. 
Finally we have seen continued strong performance in our 
machine product. The key driver in this growth has been 
through increased play on lower stake slot games. We have 
grown the percentage of gross win from slots from 33% in 
Q4 2014 to 40% in Q4 2015. This has been a key part of our 
machine strategy as we move away from higher stake content 
and focus on lower value staking games. We launched 27 new 
slot games in the year compared to just five casino B2 games. 
Within our machine performance we also complied with all the 
new DCMS regulations on £50+ staking which saw a 68% 
reduction in that form of play.
Having prioritised establishing the largest SSBT estate in the 
UK in H2 2015, we are beginning to invest the £25-30m capital 
investment programme we set out in July across the UK Retail 
estate. We expect to spend up to £11m in 2016 improving the 
core fabric of our estate where the competitive position or local 
market is expected to deliver an incremental return.
Digital
In Ladbrokes.com, where we had already established a strong 
sports betting and gaming product, we launched our new 
desktop product on the Mobenga platform, introduced cash 
out options across all sports betting platforms and implemented 
the next level of IMS creating a competitive single wallet offer 
for customers.
We continued to focus on increasing the quality of content 
available to customers on our key digital products including live 
scoreboards and increased the ease of access to live streamed 
sporting events. However, as announced in July, in the second 
half of the year we set about to ensure that more people were 
aware of our product and the significant journey of improvement 
it had been on. As planned, we increased our marketing 
intensity to over 30% of net revenue, with a focus on pay per 
click and affiliate channels. While the overall profit performance 
of Ladbrokes.com reflects the impact of increased taxation and 
marketing and product investment, the customer trend data as 
we exited the year gives cause for encouragement and we will 
continue to invest heavily in marketing as we approach the 
European Football championships in June 2016.
Sportsbook has now seen eight consecutive quarters of staking 
growth and despite coming up against a tough prior year 
comparative, it ended the year up 44% in Q4. Outside of the 
Grand National, Boxing Day 2015 saw the highest ever number 
of actives, 87,000 playing on our sportsbook, crucially showing 
that while new tablets, laptops and phones were unwrapped on 
Christmas day, our applications were willingly transferred by the 
customer. In the few weeks since the start of the new financial 
year, this number looks increasingly within reach for a normal 
Saturday. The customer preference to access products from 
mobile devices continued in the year and grew from 54% of 
our sportsbook stakes in 2014 to 71% at year end. 
While product innovation has driven the sportsbook 
performance, we have seen the ability to cross sell to Gaming 
enhanced by the delivery of the IMS single wallet functionality 
in the year. 
In Gaming we delivered our fifth consecutive quarter of growth 
in Q4, with customers responding well to weekly releases of 
new games, a new Casino website and the introduction of 
Live Dealer on all mobile platforms.
As with sportsbook, the attraction of mobile play to the 
customer continues and it now accounts for 52% of gaming 
play, up from 34% in 2014.
I called Australia one of the hidden jewels in the Ladbrokes 
crown in July. With stakes up 63%, actives up 65% and net 
revenue up 71% (local currency) it has continued to go from 
strength to strength. The strategy in Australia is to take the 
team’s dedication to innovative products to build a strong 
customer base backed by a strong investment in brand 
awareness.
In the year, the business has launched partial cash out offers 
across all markets. It has also started to drive multi-channel 
growth through the innovative ‘Cash In’ feature that allows 
customers to instantly deposit money into their Ladbrokes 
account at over 1,000 participating newsagents across 
Australia. While the performance of the business has been 
encouraging across the board, we are particularly encouraged 
by how quickly the brand has grown reaching number three in 
the year among corporate bookmakers from a standing start 
in 2013. To keep up this momentum Ladbrokes Australia has 
become the official corporate bookmaker for the Melbourne 
AUSTRALIA
STAKING INCREASE 2015
(3) 
+62.9% 
(3) Local currency
14 ladbrokesplc.com
Chief Executive’s review continued Racing Club from 1 January 2016 with Sandown Racecourse 
being renamed Ladbrokes Park and Ladbrokes will be official 
sponsor for key races including the Ladbrokes Caulfield Classic 
and Ladbrokes Caulfield Stakes. 
European Retail
In Belgium and Spain we are continuing our existing strategies 
for growth, building on leading retail positions to develop a 
multi-channel offer. 
Belgium retail performance has been good with non-horse 
sports betting, evening openings and some investment in our 
estate fabric helping offset horse racing decline. The retail 
highlight has been our product innovation in introducing SSBTs 
and utilising virtual sports on them. Although there is some 
regulatory uncertainty over virtual sports betting in Belgium, 
we continue to remain positive on the potential for SSBTs in 
Belgium retail.
In Spain, through our joint venture, we continue to expand into 
new territories and saw encouraging profit growth in the more 
established regions such as Madrid and Aragon. In Catalunya 
we have achieved the number one market position in retail and 
saw over 200% growth in net revenue in the year. While our 
strategy of continuous expansion does come at a continued 
small operating loss, progress in established territories remains 
encouraging for the longer-term success of the business. We 
also took on the role as the official betting partner to La Liga 
and the raised Sportium brand profile has assisted an 
encouraging digital performance.
In early Q2, we took the decision to place our Republic of 
Ireland business into Examinership in order to establish a more 
viable and competitive business. We exited the process in July 
with a reduced estate and a reduction in workforce achieved 
almost entirely through a voluntary redundancy programme. 
The steps we took allied to a more visibly promotion led 
business strategy has seen the Republic return to good staking 
growth and profitability in the second half of 2015. Multi-channel 
represents an exciting opportunity for Ireland and we used our 
successful experience of the UK launch to roll out the product 
in January 2016.
Regulation and Taxation Developments
2015 showed the impact regulation and taxation can have on 
our business. The increases in MGD and the introduction of 
POC tax account for c.£50million reduction in our full year 
operating profit.
We also introduced new DCMS regulations around the playing 
of B2 games at stakes above £50 in April. This had a significant 
impact in reducing the higher stakes B2 play and has driven the 
reduction in stakes at £50+ by just under 70%. 
While my central focus has been on delivering the growth 
in our business necessary to build scale and return value to 
shareholders, I have been very clear that in delivering my plan 
we have two non-negotiables in our approach, health and 
safety and responsible gambling.
We are clear that gambling should be a safe and enjoyable 
pastime for both our colleagues and customers. 
As part of this commitment we have undertaken a review of 
our approach to health and safety throughout the business. 
We have also committed to move to single scheduling as a 
voluntary only policy in the evenings and this is being rolled out 
through the estate with a target date of being fully operational 
by autumn. While this will have a financial cost, this is already 
factored into our wider view on a 2-3% rise in UK Retail 
operating costs in 2016.
As part of our commitment to responsible gambling we have 
continued to develop our retail algorithm which identifies 
changes in behaviour indicating potential problem gambling 
and assist in helping customers keep their gambling fun. It now 
covers all customers using cards in our retail estate on both 
machines and OTC products. We also launched a responsible 
gambling matrix in our Ladbrokes.com business late in the year. 
We have continued our membership of Senet and played a key 
role in the wider self-exclusion pilot schemes ahead of the 
national scheme to be rolled out in Q2 this year. 2015 was also 
the first year that responsible gambling targets were included in 
executive remuneration, and we believe we are the only 
company in the industry to have done so.
Proposed merger
The proposed merger with the Coral Group was announced 
in July 2015 and we are grateful for the strong support from 
shareholders in November. We are now actively engaged with 
the Competition and Markets Authority (“CMA”) in the formal 
phase two process. We expect to see the preliminary findings 
of the CMA in late April with the current timetable for publication 
of the final report being 24 June 2016 in line with the merger 
timetable we set out last July.
While this process takes place, we will continue to focus on 
the implementation of the organic strategy and the delivery of 
business as usual.
Outlook
Our H2 results give us encouragement that our strategy is 
working. The current year has started well, as the unpredictability 
of the football season has thus far favoured bookmakers. 
Customer metrics continue to remain strong and, as a result we 
maintain our view for 2016. It will be a year of hard work, attention 
to detail and continued investment as we set about delivering 
against our 2017 targets.
Jim Mullen
Chief Executive
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Building a better Ladbrokes
We aim to deliver the most engaging sports betting  
and gaming experience and be the brand of 
choice for the customers, whether they are  
at home, out and about or on the High Street.  
We have seen customers responding well to  
our products, value and recently launched  
multi-channel offer.
16 WHEREVER
Through our multi-channel offer, 
we have recruited over 35,000 
digital actives. Customers are 
responding well to our product 
innovation such as the Bet Slip 
Tracker which has already been 
used over 1,000,000 times since 
the start of the football season.  
In Australia, our team has been  
the first to market with Cash-in,  
a product that allows customers  
to make deposit from their online 
accounts using cash/credit card 
via newsagents. 
HOWEVER
We are growing our Digital actives 
through increased marketing 
and sponsorship across  
all media that appeals to the 
recreational customer. This is 
backed by a focus on products 
and experience. In the UK we  
now have over 6,400 SSBT’s 
across the estate and staking  
has grown 144% in the year. 
Customers are responding well  
to our promotions such as Best 
Odds Guaranteed and Top Prices 
Top Teams.
WHENEVER
In Ladbrokes.com we have 
launched new desktop products 
and introduced cash-out options 
across our sports betting platform. 
Customers are increasingly using 
our Mobile offer to place sports 
bet as well as enjoy the thrill of 
casino games on the go. 
MULTI-CHANNEL AGE PROFILE
56% aged between 18-35
TOTAL SSBT ESTATE
6,408
MULTI-CHANNEL ACTIVES
35,000
LADBROKES.COM MARKETING
32.2% % of net revenue
SPORTSBOOK ACTIVES
10% growth year on year
MOBILE STAKING
70.5% % of Sportsbook
17 Strategic report
In UK Retail, we launched our multi-channel  
‘One Ladbrokes’ offer nationwide following  
successful regional trials. This will capitalise  
on our strength in UK Retail and maximise  
the value of our existing and future customer  
relationships.
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
– OTC amounts staked 2,280.0 2,327.9 (2.1)%
– Machines amounts staked 11,706.4 11,838.6 (1.1)%
Amounts staked 13,986.4 14,166.5 (1.3)%
– OTC gross win 373.9 386.3 (3.2)%
– Machines gross win 464.6 437.9 6.1%
Gross win 838.5 824.2 1.7%
Adjustments to GW
(1)
(11.1) (12.7) 12.6%
– OTC net revenue 369.2 379.5 (2.7)%
– Machines net revenue 458.2 432.0 6.1%
Net revenue 827.4 811.5 2.0%
Gross profits tax (55.0) (56.9) 3.3%
Machine Games Duty (110.7) (86.3) (28.3)%
661.7 668.3 (1.0)%
Associate income 4.3 1.2 258%
Operating costs (549.9) (550.2) 0.1%
Operating profit
(2)
116.1 119.3 (2.7)%
(1) Fair value adjustments, free bets.
(2) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
(3) Greyhound tracks account for £11.2m of amounts staked and £7.1m of gross win in 2015 
(2014: £11.7m amounts staked and £7.6m gross win).
Retail investment delivering revenue 
growth in machines and football, 
positive OTC staking trends in H2
Our UK Retail business performed ahead of our expectations 
for 2015 reflecting a stronger OTC and machines performance, 
continued cost control and better results driven margins in Q4. 
Overall, net revenue increased by 2.0% driven by strong SSBT 
and machine performance and operating profit declined by 
2.7%, much less than the impact from the significant increase 
in Machines Games Duty from 1 March.
Despite the impact of the 2014 World Cup in the comparable 
period, OTC staking declined by only 2.1% or 0.4% on a like 
for like basis. Excluding the World Cup, OTC staking was in 
line with the prior year or up 1.7% on a like for like basis with 
H2 returning to growth. Football staking was down 1.5%, but 
excluding the World Cup period we saw underlying growth 
of c.14% and following the start of the English Premiership in 
August, football staking grew by 13.2%.
Gross win margin for the year was 16.2% (2014:16.4%). In H1 
we experienced lower OTC margin reflecting the industry wide 
football losses in Q1 and weaker horse racing margins from our 
sustained focus on value for customers and customer friendly 
results. However, the favourable football results towards the 
end of the year avoided a potentially weaker result. 
SSBTs, which are included in OTC, generated stakes of 
£117.4m, up 144%, with over 76% coming from football.  
We have seen a growing staking per shop throughout the  
year whilst margins have been maintained at 25.6% supportive 
of our wider deployment strategy. In 2015, our SSBT estate 
grew to 6,408 (2014: 1,731).
UK RETAIL 
NET REVENUE
£827.4m
+2.0%
UK RETAIL 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2)
£116.1m
-2.7%
UK Retail
18 ladbrokesplc.com We have successfully launched the multi-channel strategy 
which has delivered 35,000 digital actives by the year end.  
On average, they are around twice as valuable as standalone 
digital customers and are cheaper to recruit with over 6,200 
shop colleagues benefitting from the £0.8m paid in incentives. 
In H1 we launched the new regulations governing stakes 
above £50. This had a significant impact in reducing the higher 
stakes B2 play. Good engagement with our customers through 
implementation of the ‘£50 journey’ and our speed to market 
on launching innovative lower staking B3 slots and content 
has seen machine revenue grow by 6.1% with strong growth 
in slots which now accounts for c.39% of machines gross win 
(2014: c.31%).
In 2015, there was an average of 8,670 gaming machines in 
the estate (2014: 8,966). At 31 December 2015 there were 
8,586 machines (31 December 2014: 8,789). Average gross 
win per machine per week was £1,028 (2014: £937).
On 1 March 2015 the rate of Machine Games Duty increased 
from 20% to 25% resulting in a £24.4m increase in the year.
Operating costs decreased by 0.1% in 2015 reflecting shop 
closures, or a 2.5% increase on a like-for-like basis. This was 
broadly in line with the cost guidance we issued in February as 
we have benefitted from a sustained focus on cost efficiency 
through a well managed rent renewal process and delivered 
on our estate optimisation programmes. Our machine revenue 
share payments were higher than we expected reflecting the 
stronger performance in 2015. Marketing costs were higher by 
30.4% reflecting our investment in customer acquisition and 
payments to our employees in support of the multi-channel 
programme. In 2016, we expect UK Retail operating costs to 
increase by c.2-3% taking account of a continued attractive 
rental market, staff costs increases including the impact of the 
National Living Wage being introduced in March 2016 as well  
as voluntary single scheduling, and the small reduction in the 
estate planned for 2016.
In 2015, we closed 56 shops as we improve the quality of our 
estate and remove, where commercially sensible, loss making 
shops from the portfolio. The closures have generated an 
exceptional charge of £13.4m (total cash cost £4.4m). In 2016 
we expect to close around 25 shops excluding the impact of 
the proposed merger. 
At 31 December 2015 there were 2,153 shops in Great Britain 
(31 December 2014: 2,209).
STAND-OUT PROMOTIONS 
We are growing our Digital actives through increased 
marketing and sponsorship across all media that appeals 
to the recreational customer. Customers are responding 
well to our promotions such as Best Odds Guaranteed 
and Top Prices Top Teams.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Strategic report
We have invested in our products and  
platforms and delivered improving  
customer metrics, in particular in our  
Digital divisions in Europe and Australia.
Ladbrokes.com and Exchanges
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
Net revenue
– Sportsbook 81.0 84.8 (4.5)%
– Gaming 91.2 80.5 13.3%
– Exchanges 13.3 13.2 0.8%
Net revenue 185.5 178.5 3.9%
Betting tax (0.3) (1.1) 72.7%
POC tax (28.1) (2.1) Na
VAT (0.8) – –
Operating costs (177.0) (158.0) (12.0)%
Operating (loss)/profit
(1)
(20.7) 17.3 Na
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
The Digital segment comprises all of our Digital operations 
including Ladbrokes.com and digital Exchanges; Ladbrokes 
Australia; and other regulated operations in Belgium and our 
digital joint venture Sportium.es. 
In 2015, Digital net revenue increased by 12.9% to £242.8m 
(2014: £215.1m) driven by a combination of strong customer 
KPIs as well as favourable sporting results in Q4 resulting in our 
highest ever level of quarterly net revenue in Ladbrokes.com. 
However, as a result of the introduction of the POC tax in the 
UK, substantial losses to HVC’s in Ladbrokes.com in Q1 and 
increased marketing investment in H2 in line with the strategic 
plan, we recorded an operating loss before exceptional items 
of £23.8m (2014: profit £14.0m). 
Ladbrokes.com and Exchanges
In Sportsbook, amounts staked increased by 29.0% (+33.5% 
ex World Cup) with actives increasing by 9.9%. In 2015, Mobile 
represented 70.5% of sportsbook stakes with mobile staking 
increasing by 69.4%. The gross win margin of 6.1% was 
1.7 percentage points lower than 2014; this was partially 
due to significant losses to HVC’s in Q1 but also reflects the 
impact of customer friendly football results in H1. As a result, 
Sportsbook net revenue declined by 4.5%.
In July, we launched our new desktop product, powered by 
the Mobenga platform which gives our customers a consistent 
experience with our strong Mobile and tablet offers. In addition, 
other enhancements such as cash-out and single wallet were 
launched. Whilst the decline in desktop actives has been 
arrested, desktop staking declined by 17.9%, reflecting 
increasing customer preference for Mobile products. 
DIGITAL 
NET REVENUE
£242.8m
+12.9%
DIGITAL 
OPERATING LOSS
(1)
£-23.8m
-270.0%
Digital
20 ladbrokesplc.com MULTI-CHANNEL INNOVATION 
Through our multi-channel offer, we have recruited 
over 35,000 digital actives. Customers are responding 
well to our product innovation.
Point of Consumption (POC) tax came into effect from  
1 December 2014 levied at a rate of 15% of net revenue.  
The full year impact of POC tax, a lower Sportsbook gross  
win margin and the increased investment in marketing has 
resulted in an operating loss of £20.7m (2014: profit £17.3m).
Australia
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
Net revenue 53.2 34.6 53.8%
Operating profit
(1)
2.5 2.6 (3.8)%
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
Our Australian business operates under the Ladbrokes, 
Bookmaker and Betstar brands. Ladbrokes Australia has 
continued to successfully pursue its challenger strategy building 
market share through effective use of affiliates and product 
innovation such as Live Play and the cash in option via a 
network of newsagents. This is being supported with increased 
marketing expenditure and investment in increased product 
capability and customer support which per the strategy, will be 
maintained in 2016.
The small operating profit decline is as a result of an increase 
in marketing investment as well as the weakening of the 
Australian Dollar.
Looking at performance on a constant currency basis, staking 
increased by 62.9% driven by a 64.7% increase in active 
customers and net revenue increased by 70.9% on the back 
of a 75.6% increase in marketing spend. Gross win margin 
was 9.8% (2014: 9.0%).
Other regulated operations
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
Net revenue 4.1 2.0 105.0%
Operating loss
(1),(2)
(5.6) (5.9) 5.1%
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
(2) Includes £0.9m share of loss from Sportium.es joint venture (2014: £1.7m loss).
Other regulated operations include our digital activities in 
Belgium and Spain (JV), the latter of which consolidates into 
the operating loss line. 
Since launching in Q2 2014, we have increased our Belgium 
net revenue to £4.0m (2014: £1.6m), incurring start up losses 
as we drive for growth and capitalise on our significant and 
long-standing retail presence in Belgium. Belgium Digital actives 
increased by 141% reflecting the launch in Q2 2014.
Our digital joint venture with Sportium generated revenue 
growth of 86.2% on increased actives of c.114k up 43.8% and 
again incurred a development phase operating loss reflecting 
marketing investment in La Liga sponsorship and associated  
La Liga promotional campaigns to drive customer acquisition 
and scale. 
In Q2 2015, we closed our Danish online business which had 
been loss making for some time, deploying our resources into 
markets where we can build scale. 
As a result of our improved customer offer and the benefits of 
Ladbrokes Israel use of the Playtech IMS platform, Gaming net 
revenue increased by 13.3% to £91.2m and we have now seen 
five sequential quarters of growth in net revenue and actives. 
Net revenue from Betdaq and the Ladbrokes Exchange of 
£13.3m increased by 0.8%.
Operating costs increased by 12.0% to £177.0m (2014: £158.0m) 
impacted by the increased marketing investment in H2, in line 
with the strategic plan. Depreciation and amortisation increased 
to £28.5m (2014: £27.2m) reflecting the investment in systems 
and product enhancements. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Strategic report
European Retail comprises operations in Belgium, 
Ireland and Spain. European Retail revenue 
was down 1.9% and operating profit was up 
11.5% on 2014.
European Retail
European Retail comprises our operations in Belgium, Ireland 
and Spain which are discussed in detail below. European Retail 
revenue was down 1.9% mainly due to the smaller estate in the 
Republic of Ireland following the Examinership process, and 
operating profit before exceptional items was £14.5m, up 11.5% 
on 2014.
Belgium Retail
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
 (reported)
Year on year 
change  
(constant 
currency)
%
Amounts staked 273.9 202.0 35.6% 48.5%
Net revenue 55.6 49.9 11.4% 22.2%
Betting tax (8.4) (7.7) (9.1)% (20.0)%
Gross profit 47.2 42.2 11.8% 22.5%
Operating costs (37.7) (32.6) (15.6)% (26.5)%
Operating profit
(1)
9.5 9.6 (1.0)% 9.2%
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
In Belgium, we are benefitting from the substantial investment 
in enhancing the quality of the offering in our retail estate for 
customers with the introduction of virtual betting products and 
SSBTs. Amounts staked have increased 35.6% while gross win 
margins reflected lower margin virtual play at 20.3% (2014: 
24.7%), meaning net revenue increased by 11.4%. Operating 
costs were up 15.6% with machine and virtual revenue share 
and night opening costs being the key drivers and operating 
profit at £9.5m was down £0.1m on 2014. Since the introduction 
of the virtual product, the Belgian regulator has restricted the 
amount of time that all market participants can run the product, 
which impacted revenues in H2. In January 2016, the regulator 
has ordered a ‘shut-down’ of the virtual offering from 1 June 
2016 pending changes to the Royal decree on virtual product 
betting. We continue to lobby the authorities and are confident 
of a positive outcome for all operators over a product that 
contributes significant amount in tax revenues.
As at 31 December 2015 there were a total of 439 outlets 
including both Ladbrokes shops and newsagent outlets  
(2014: 361).
Spain Retail
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
Operating loss
(1)
(1.8) (1.0) (80.0)%
(1) Before exceptional items.
(2) Including Sportium Joint Venture on a 50% basis.
Our Sportium Retail joint venture had a record full year with 
amounts staked increasing by 45.3%
(2)
 to £118.2m and gross 
win by 39.0%
(2)
 to £21.6m at a GW margin of 18.2% (2014: 
19.1%). In 2015, we launched in Castilla ye Leon and the 
Canarias and continue to develop the offer in the regions 
entered in 2014. Combined with the lower GW margin, this 
contributed towards our share of operating loss of £1.8m (2014: 
£1.0m).
As at 31 December 2015, Sportium services were available 
from a total of 1,476 outlets (2014: 1,192). 
EUROPEAN RETAIL 
NET REVENUE
£119.8m
-1.9%
EUROPEAN 
OPERATING PROFIT
(1)
£14.5m
+11.5%
European Retail
22 ladbrokesplc.com Ireland Retail
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
– OTC amounts staked 443.5 467.6 (5.2)%
– Machines amounts staked 141.4 141.0 0.3%
Amounts staked 584.9 608.6 (3.9)%
– OTC gross win
59.7 67.4 (11.4)%
– Machines gross win 5.6 5.6 –
Gross win 65.3 73.0 (10.5)%
Net revenue 64.2 72.2 (11.1)%
Betting tax
(6.2) (6.6) 6.1%
Machine Games Duty (1.4) (1.1) (25.0)%
Gross profit 56.6 64.5 (12.2)%
Operating costs (49.8) (60.1) 17.1%
Operating profit
(1)
6.8 4.4 54.5%
(1) Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
Following the completion of the Examinership process in 
July, we now have an estate of 143 shops (down 53 since 
31 December 2014) in the Republic of Ireland with a reduced 
operating cost base. Although almost 90 people left the 
business, we were pleased that almost all opted to do so 
under the voluntary redundancy scheme. Including costs of 
terminating leases early and legal and professional expenses, 
the total £10.0m cost of the Examinership process is reflected 
in our exceptional items.
Inevitably, the reduction in the estate impacted our results, and 
our Republic of Ireland business saw staking decline by 7.8% 
and revenue by 16.5%. On a like for like basis, the remaining 
estate of 143 shops recorded an increase of 14.3% in amounts 
staked including a 20.5% increase in H2. Gross win margin of 
12.5% was down 1.2 percentage points reflecting a more 
competitive offer for our customers primarily in horse racing.
Overall trends in Northern Ireland were similar to the UK and 
with further cost efficiencies operating profit was slightly down 
on last year.
Overall Ireland operating profit at £6.8m was up £2.4m on 2014. 
At 31 December 2015, there were 77 shops in Northern Ireland 
(31 December 2014: 79). 
Core telephone betting
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Year on year
change
%
Amounts staked 107.3 160.9 (33.3)%
Net revenue 5.5 10.2 (46.1)%
Gross profits tax (0.9) (0.2) (350.0)%
Operating costs (6.8) (8.0) 15.0%
Operating (loss)/profit
(1)
(2.2) 2.0 Na
(1) (Loss)/profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
Traditional telephone betting continues to decline as we actively 
migrate customers to digital products and platforms. Amounts 
staked declined by 33.3% on 2014 but with gross win margins 
lower at 5.5% (2014: 7.2%), in line with trends seen across the 
business, net revenue declined by 46.1% and the business 
moved to a loss making position. 
High Rollers
High Rollers generated an operating profit for the year of £3.3m 
(2014: £14.2m).
Telephone and High Rollers
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Strategic report
“ 201 5 financial results 
largely impacted 
by additional 
gambling taxes and 
higher marketing 
expenditure in H2.”
Year ended
31 Dec
2015
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2014
£m
Net Revenue (excluding High Rollers) 1,195.5 1,158.9
High Rollers 4.0 15.7
Net Revenue (including High Rollers) 1,199.5 1,174.6
Operating profit
(1) 
UK Retail 116.1 119.3
Digital (23.8) 14.0
European Retail 14.5 13.0
Core Telephone Betting (2.2) 2.0
Corporate costs (24.0) (22.9)
Operating profit
(1)
 (excluding High Rollers) 80.6 125.4
High Rollers 3.3 14.2
Operating profit
(1)
 (including High Rollers) 83.9 139.6
Exceptional items (99.3) (74.5)
Net finance expense (27.8) (27.4)
Profit before tax (43.2) 37.7
Income tax expense 48.3 3.3
Profit after tax 5.1 41.0
Trading summary 
The table below sets out the gross win and net revenue for 
each segment.
Year ended  
31 December 2015
Year ended 
31 December 2014
Gross win
£m
Net revenue
(2)
£m
Gross win
£m
Net revenue
(2)
£m
UK Retail 838.5 827.4 824.2 811.5
Digital 316.4 242.8 288.3 215.1
European Retail 120.9 119.8 122.9 122.1
Core Telephone Betting 5.9 5.5 11.6 10.2
High Rollers 4.0 4.0 15.7 15.7
Total 1,285.7 1,199.5 1,262.7 1,174.6
(1) Profit before tax, net finance and exceptional items.
(2) Net revenue is derived after deducting Freebets and fair value adjustments from gross win.
Revenue
Group revenue increased by £24.9m (2.1%) to £1,199.5m 
(2014: £1,174.6m). Excluding High Rollers, revenue increased 
by £36.6m (3.2%) to £1,195.5m (2014: £1,158.9m). 
The increase is mainly attributable to growth in our Australian 
business, strong SSBT and gaming machine performance in 
UK Retail, improved gaming performance within Ladbrokes.com 
partially offset by weaker OTC and Ladbrokes.com sportsbook 
margin on the back of customer friendly results in H1. Notably, 
2014 covered the World Cup compared to no major football 
tournament in 2015.
Operating profit
Operating profit decreased by £55.7m (39.9%) to £83.9m 
(2014: £139.6m). The key drivers are increased marketing spend, 
higher gaming taxes (MGD and POC) as well as a decline in 
High Roller activity. 
Operating profit is stated after depreciation and amortisation 
of £77 .4m. The Group expects full year depreciation and 
amortisation charge for full year ended 31 December 2016 to 
be in the range of £80-82m. 
24 ladbrokesplc.com
Financial review Excluding High Rollers, operating profit decreased by £44.8m 
(35.7%) to £80.6m (2014: £125.4m) reflecting the impact of 
increased MGD, the full year effect of POC tax as well as higher 
marketing spend in line with our strategy. 
Corporate costs
Before exceptional items, total corporate costs increased by 
£1.1m to £24.0m (2014: £22.9m). The increase is mainly due to 
the inclusion of bonus provisions in 2015 partially offset by a 
credit of £1.6m relating to the Hilton hotel guarantees.
Finance expense 
Before exceptional items, net finance expense of £28.1m was 
£0.7m higher than last year (2014: £27 .4m) mainly due to a higher 
blended interest rate as a majority of the bonds were fixed rate 
bonds in the year. 
Profit before tax 
The decrease in trading profits has resulted in a 50.3% decrease 
in full year profit before taxation and exceptional items to £55.8m 
(2014: £112.2m). 
Operating exceptional items before tax
Total operating exceptional items before tax of £99.3m 
(2014 £73.4m) includes the following:
 – £58.3m (2014: £44.5m) impairment loss following review of 
UK Retail and Ireland shops and software
 – £19.8m (2014: £30.7m) of losses on closure of shops in the UK 
and Ireland (£13.4m loss in closure in UK Retail and £6.4m in 
European Retail mainly as a result of the Examinership process 
in the Republic of Ireland)
 – £17 .6m in relation to transaction costs relating to the proposed 
recommended merger with the Coral Group
 – £3.5m credit in relation to reversal of European indirect 
tax liability
 – £3.8m in relation to the legal and redundancy costs following 
the Examinership process in the Republic of Ireland
 – £3.1m early settlement of contractual liability with an affiliate 
in Australia
 – £0.2m relating to the re-measurement of the contingent 
considerations in respect of business combinations from 
2014 (2014: £3.1m credit)
Of these, c£31.9m is expected to be payable in cash of which 
c£25.1m was paid in 2015 with the remainder payable in 2016 
and beyond. 
The total exceptional charge of £99.0m includes a £0.3m credit 
in relation to exceptional finance income. 
Taxation 
The UK tax environment has become increasingly challenging in 
that the tax risk associated with potential change of law could 
mean that previously agreed losses may never have been fully 
used in the future. With this backdrop, the Board considered ways 
in which we can crystallise the value for our shareholders and also 
further strengthen the balance sheet. The Board approved steps 
to be taken to accelerate the use of historic corporation tax 
losses. This has involved adjustments to prior period filings and 
discussions with HMRC over certain outstanding matters, and 
the recorded position reflects the agreed or expected outcome 
of these matters. Previously, the utilisation of certain losses was 
expected to require future restructuring activity or settlement 
of matters with HMRC, and as such was not considered 
sufficiently likely to permit recognition in previous periods.
£37 .4m of previously unrecognised tax losses have been 
recognised with £29.3m arising from adjustments to prior 
years and £8.1m in the current year. We expect c£37 .0m tax 
repayment in 2016.
Going forward, we anticipate that our accounting tax rate will be in 
the mid teens, more in line with comparable UK based companies.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had £33.6 million 
(2014: £76.5 million) of unrecognised deferred tax assets, relating 
to losses, the utilisation of which is not likely at the current time. 
This is because the losses are within loss making holding 
companies which are not anticipated to make future profits. 
Dividend
The Board today announces a proposed final dividend of 
2.0 pence per share (2014: 4.6 pence per share) taking the full 
year dividend to 3.0 pence per share (2014: 8.9 pence per share). 
The dividend will be payable on 12 May 2016 to shareholders 
on the register on 29 March 2016. This is consistent with the 
dividend policy announced in July 2015. 
Earnings per share (EPS) 
Underlying
EPS (before exceptional items and High Rollers) decreased by 
9.9% to 9.1 pence (2014: 10.1 pence), reflecting the reduced 
profit before tax and exceptional items, and corporation tax 
credit in the year.
Statutory
EPS (before exceptional items) decreased 19.0% to 9.4 pence 
(2014: 11.6 pence), reflecting the reduced profit before tax. 
EPS (including the impact of exceptional items) was 0.5 pence 
(2014: 4.4 pence). Fully diluted EPS (including the impact of 
exceptional items) was 0.5 pence (2014: 4.4 pence) after 
adjustment for outstanding share options.
Cash flow, capital expenditure, borrowings  
and banking facilities
Cash generated by operations was £165.2m (2014: £159.0m). 
After net finance expense paid of £26.6m (2014: £26.4m), income 
taxes paid of £2.3m (2014: £2.1m) and £66.1m (2014: £59.9m) 
on capital expenditure and intangible additions; cash inflow was 
£70.2m (2014: £65.4m). Net proceeds from the share placing 
of £112.9m were mostly used to pay down borrowings. Post 
dividend payment of £52.3m (2014: £81.4m) and other net cash 
outflows of £15.7m (2014: £4.6m), net debt at the end of the 
period decreased by £115.1m.
The Group expects capital expenditure for full year ended  
31 December 2016 to be in the range of £90-£95m. 
At 31 December 2015, gross borrowings of £332.4m less the 
net of cash and short-term deposits of £28.3m resulted in a 
net debt of £304.1m (2014: £419.2m). Gross borrowings at 
31 December 2015 consists of a £225m, 7 .625% bond maturing 
in 2017 and a £100m, 5.125% retail bond maturing in 2022. 
Ian Bull FCMA
Chief Financial Officer
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Strategic report
The effective understanding, acceptance and management of 
risk is fundamental to the strategy of the Group and what could 
materially affect the ability to achieve strategic goals. Over the 
period of the year, Ladbrokes has looked to improve its risk 
management capabilities and enhance its ability to detect and 
monitor principal risks. 
We have adopted an integrated and proactive approach 
to our risk management and responsibilities, this includes 
improvement in our ability to discuss and understand our risk.  
A new Enterprise Risk Management Framework has been 
established, which includes an assessment of risk appetite 
and tolerance within the Group as a whole. The level of risk it 
is considered appropriate to accept in achieving Ladbrokes’ 
strategic objectives is reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Committee considers all identified risks to the 
business but focuses on the principal risks of the business.
For each risk identified within the impact areas the likelihood, 
consequence, risk owner (Executive Committee member) 
and operational lead are identified by the Risk Committee.
The risk owner and operational lead suggest the 
appropriate mitigating control and actions which are 
reviewed for appropriateness and monitored regularly by 
the Risk Committee.
Throughout the year the risk management approach is the 
subject of continuous review and updated to reflect new 
and developing issues which might impact business strategy. 
Emerging or topical risks are examined to understand the 
significance to the business. Risks are identified and monitored 
through workshops and risk registers at the Group level and 
within key business units.
A Risk Matrix and risk indicators have been established and 
further developed which helps to monitor progress on risks. 
Risks and how we manage them
RISK GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND METHODOLOGY
THE BOARD
 –  Overall responsibility for risk management as an integral 
part of strategic planning
 –  Formal review of risks twice yearly
 –  Setting clear policies on acceptable levels of risk
 –  Bi-annual assessment of the effectiveness of Internal 
Controls System
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
 –  Responsible for assessing the scope and effectiveness 
of the systems established to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks
 – Reviews reports from Internal Audit (four times per year) 
and external audit (PwC)
 –  Internal audit function (outsourced to Deloitte LLP) 
has an annual audit programme that addresses most 
of the principal risks as well as other operational and 
business risks
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
 –  Executive directors and senior executives identify 
key risks and make recommendations on the overall 
approach to risk management
 –  Reviews overall assessment of likely risks
 –  Responsible for enforcing risk management as an 
integral part of the Group’s internal control, planning 
and approval process
 –  Each key risk is assigned Executive Committee 
member ownership
RISK COMMITTEE
 –  Constitutes Group and divisional executives and 
senior managers
 –  Responsible for maintaining the corporate risk register 
including periodic monitoring of the mitigating actions 
as well as the likelihood and consequence of each risk
 – Meets four times a year
 – Business units report into the Risk Committee
CONTINUOUS 
IMPROVEMENT
Risk identifi cation  >  Risk assessment  >  Action planning  >  Monitoring  >  Reporting  >
26 ladbrokesplc.com PRINCIPAL RISKS
The risks outlined here are those principal risks that are material 
to the Group. They do not include all those associated with 
Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority. 
Additional risks not presently known to management, or 
currently deemed less material may also have an adverse 
effect on the business including:
 – Marketplace and Operational – changes in the 
economic environment, the European Union, changes 
in consumer leisure spend and international expansion.
 – Financial – availability of debt financing and costs of 
borrowing, taxation and pension fund liability.
Increased Decreased Remains unaltered
SPECIFIC RISKS THAT ARE MATERIAL TO LADBROKES ARE:
Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy
Change in risk
to the business
Betting and gaming industry
Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance All
Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting 
and gaming in key markets around the world 
can change, sometimes at short notice. Such 
changes could benefit or have an adverse effect on 
Ladbrokes and additional costs might be incurred in 
order to comply with any new laws or regulations.
Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments 
in key markets are monitored closely, allowing 
Ladbrokes to assess and adapt quickly to 
changes in the environment and minimise risks 
to the business. Ladbrokes engages with its 
regulators and the relevant trade organisations 
with regard to the betting and gaming regulatory 
framework and other issues of shared concern, 
such as problem gambling. Ladbrokes has 
entered into a voluntary code of practice and 
has a Social Responsibility Committee.
Increased cost of product Grow recreational 
customer base/ 
develop multi-channel
Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing 
arrangements intended to support industries 
from which it profits. Examples are the horse 
racing and the voluntary greyhound racing levies 
which respectively support the British horse racing 
and greyhound industries. In addition, Ladbrokes 
enters into contracts for the distribution of television 
pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast 
into Ladbrokes’ betting shops. A number of these 
are under negotiation at any one time.
Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade 
associations and the principal bodies of sport 
and event industries with regard to sports rights 
payments, including the statutory horse racing 
levy, animal welfare and other issues.
Operational and bookmaking
Trading, liability management and pricing All
Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a 
result of a failure to determine accurately the odds 
in relation to any particular event and/or any failure 
of its risk management processes.
Ladbrokes’ core expertise is trading liability 
management and it has developed the skills 
and systems to be able to offer a wide range 
of betting opportunities and accept large bets. 
There is in place a highly experienced trading 
team and risks are spread across a wide range 
of events. A bookmaker’s odds are determined 
so as to provide an average return to the 
bookmaker over a large number of events and 
therefore, over the longterm, Ladbrokes’ gross 
win percentage has remained fairly constant.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Strategic report
PRINCIPAL RISKS continued
Risks and how we manage them continued
Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy
Change in risk
to the business
Operational and bookmaking continued
Loss of key locations Develop multi-channel/ 
grow recreational 
customer base/Australia
Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular 
Imperial House at Rayners Lane in London, its head 
office and main operations centre, its premises at 
Europort in Gibraltar from where online betting and 
gaming operations are based, and in Tel Aviv, Israel 
from where our Digital marketing operates and our 
operations in Australia.
Existing business continuity plans and 
arrangements for off-site data storage, alternate 
system availability and remote working for key 
operational and senior management continue to 
be developed and refined as part of an ongoing 
review process.
Recruitment and retention of key employees and succession planning Develop multi-channel/ 
grow recreational 
customer base/Australia
Our people are our greatest asset. We aim to be 
an employer of choice for talented and passionate 
people and we need a high level of competence 
across the business to meet our objectives and 
respond to changing market needs.
Performance Management, Development, 
Reward and Recognition systems are all 
constantly reviewed and updated to marry 
business needs with best practice. An 
increasingly important part is being played 
by formal, biannual Talent Management and 
Succession Plan reviews.
Information technology and communications
Technology failure All
Ladbrokes’ operations are highly dependent on 
technology and advanced information systems 
and there is a risk that such technology or systems 
could fail. In particular, any damage to, or failure of 
online systems and servers, electronic point of sale 
systems and electronic display systems could result 
in interruptions to financial controls and customer 
service systems.
Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place 
which seeks to eliminate single points of failure 
within key technology locations.
Data management Develop multi-channel/
grow recreational 
customer base/Australia
Ladbrokes process sensitive personal customer 
data (including name, address, age, bank details 
and betting and gaming history) as part of its 
business and therefore must comply with strict data 
protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates. Ladbrokes is exposed 
to the risk that this data could be wrongfully 
appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in 
breach of data protection regulation. This could 
also result in prosecutions including potential 
financial penalties and the loss of the goodwill 
of its customers and deter new customers.
Security systems are deployed to protect 
transactional data. Sophisticated hardware and 
security mechanisms are used to ensure all 
sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series 
of storage systems are used to replicate all data 
processed by online services. In respect of fraud 
protection, an extensive programme of data 
monitoring is in place with both prevention and 
detection audit controls.
A cyber security programme is in place 
supporting our ongoing approach to assessing 
the threats and improving our security maturity. 
28 ladbrokesplc.com Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy
Change in risk
to the business
Information technology and communications continued
Failure in the supply chain All
Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third 
parties for the operation of its business. The 
withdrawal or removal from the market of one or 
more of these major third party suppliers, or failure 
of third party suppliers to comply with contractual 
obligations could adversely affect Ladbrokes’ 
operations.
Infrastructure suppliers, network and 
telecommunication suppliers and application 
service providers are long-term partners in 
providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure 
the delivery of sophisticated and high performance 
transaction processing systems. There is continual 
communication with these suppliers and providers 
at an operating level and service level agreements 
have been established to maintain high service 
levels. The ongoing review of business continuity 
plans includes key supplier alternatives and the 
continued development of the Supply Relationship 
Management (SRM) platform.
Marketplace
Competition All
Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other 
land-based bookmakers, online betting exchanges 
and other online gambling operators. In particular, 
the online gambling market is characterised by 
intense and substantial competition and by relatively 
low barriers to entry for new participants. In 
addition, Ladbrokes faces competition from market 
participants who benefit from greater liquidity 
as a result of accepting bets and wagers from 
jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes chooses not to 
operate (because of legal reasons or otherwise).
Ladbrokes’ performance and competitive 
position are continuously monitored and, where 
appropriate, changes are instituted, including 
in relation to marketing, product development, 
yield management, cost control and investment. 
Acquisition opportunities, with a view to 
taking advantage of market consolidation, 
are continuously evaluated.
Health and Safety All
Failure to meet the requirements of the various 
domestic and international rules and regulations could 
expose the company (and individual employees and 
directors) to material civil/criminal action with the 
associated financial and reputational consequences. 
Ladbrokes has numerous policies and 
procedures in place and these are the subject 
of a continual review. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Strategic report
VIABILITY STATEMENT
Risks and how we manage them continued
 – In accordance with provision c2.2 of the 2014 revision of the 
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed 
the prospect of Ladbrokes over a longer period than the 
12 months required by the ‘Going Concern’ provision. 
 – The Board notes that the business has, for many years,  
a history of planning, budgeting and forecasting and that  
the nature of forecasts and plans is that they are ‘best’ 
expectation of the business going forward; thus, they  
already contain uncertainty and expectations. 
 – The directors concluded that three years was an appropriate 
period of assessment given that this is the key period of focus 
within the Group’s strategic planning process and is a typical 
time period for visibility of commercial implications of key 
drivers of the business. The objectives of the strategic planning 
process are to consider the Groups strategy and address 
challenges to this strategy. In support, the Company builds 
a consolidated financial model containing scenarios which 
the directors have used to assess the principal risks and 
uncertainties to the business within the three-year time period.
 – In order to confirm the longer-term viability of Ladbrokes, a 
series of scenarios were modelled to simulate the potential 
impacts of exposure to the Company’s principal risks being 
realised (see section Principal Risks in the Strategic Report). 
These scenarios included:
 – The impacts of changes to the regulatory landscape 
(involving a range of risks: taxes, laws, regulations 
and licensing, regulatory compliance, recruitment 
and retention of key employees, technology failure, 
competition, and data management);
 – Loss of trading and reputational damage from data 
losses (involving increased cost of product and 
technology failure);
 – Increasing burdens on operating margins due to 
legislative changes (involving a range of risks: taxes, 
laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance, 
recruitment and retention of key employees, technology 
failure, competition, and data management);
 – Loss of a major site (focused on loss of a key location); 
and
 – Loss of key leadership personnel (involving a range of 
risks: taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory 
compliance, trading liability management and pricing, 
and technology failure).
 – These scenarios were assessed taking into account the 
current risk appetite and mitigation actions Ladbrokes 
takes in respect of these principal risks. 
 – The viability statement and the modelling carried out to 
support it are made based upon the current Ladbrokes plc 
business model and balance sheet together with the 
assumption that future finance facilities that mature during 
the three-year period will be refinanced. 
 – This viability assessment takes into account all the committed 
expenditure of the Group together with corporate transaction 
costs securing the completion of the proposed merger with 
certain businesses of the Gala Coral Group. It does not 
include the financial results, position and prospects of Gala 
Coral entities subject of the merger nor the financing facilities 
as mentioned on page 128 that have been arranged in 
connection with the proposed merger.
 – Based on the results of the this analysis, the directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the three-year period of this assessment.
The going concern statement is contained on page 73.
30 ladbrokesplc.com LEADING  
THE WAY
IN RESPONSIBLE  
BETTING AND  
GAMING
HAVING A 
POSITIVE IMPACT 
ON OUR 
COMMUNITIES
OPERATING
WITH  
INTEGRITY
Behaving responsibly has always been a 
priority for Ladbrokes and Fair Play is built 
into the way we do business. We do our best 
to remain leaders in responsible betting and 
gaming, have a positive impact on our 
communities and operate with integrity.
Corporate responsibility
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic report
What’s important to us?
The betting and gaming landscape is continually evolving and 
to remain leaders in our industry, Ladbrokes has had to change 
with it. Expanding our multi-channel offerings and entering new 
markets and jurisdictions are some of the ways we are keeping 
pace with the industry. Each of our new offerings and markets 
brings new challenges – some of which have implications for 
our Corporate Responsibility (CR) programme, both locally and 
globally. We regularly review what’s important to us, and our 
major stakeholders, to determine any actions we need to take. 
This year we took stock again. We carried out a formal materiality 
analysis to see if we had missed anything within our current 
CR programme. We identified a range of themes and emerging 
societal issues that may have some relevance to Ladbrokes. 
We then considered how important these issues were to our 
FAIR PLAY 
stakeholders (employees, customers, shareholders, regulators 
and the general public) and how much they are, or could be, 
a key driver for the business. Due to the sensitive nature of the 
issues, we have anonymised the exact details in the matrix 
below but reassuringly, there were no surprises among the 
results. The areas identified for our greatest focus included the 
promotion of responsible gambling behaviours, providing better 
player information and harm minimisation strategies, especially 
around machine play, ensuring the safety of our staff and 
customers and overall crime prevention. This chimes well with 
the two non-negotiables of our new Chief Executive: responsible 
gambling and health and safety, and builds on the issues 
research completed with our key investors in previous years. 
More detail on this analysis and our CR programme as a whole is 
contained in our 2015 CR report – available on ladbrokesplc.com
Corporate responsibility continued
CR materiality matrix
Relevance to business and company HIGH LOW
HIGH
Stakeholder importance
 Economics
 Ethics
 Governance and risk
 Responsible gambling
 Customers
 Workforce and  
 labour standards
 Community and society
 Wider human rights
32 ladbrokesplc.com Leading the way in responsible betting 
and gaming
We have always placed great emphasis on being a responsible 
business, advocating and maintaining high standards across 
our sector. Our activities during 2015 have continued to support 
this aim. We have been working across our industry to push 
the boundaries of our understanding of responsible gambling 
behaviours and the options for harm minimisation. We are active 
participants of the Association of British Bookmakers (ABB) and 
Remote Gambling Association’s (RGA) responsible gambling 
committees, and were key instigators in setting up the IGRG 
(Industry Group on Responsible Gambling) and the Senet Group. 
Through our involvement in several industry working groups, 
we have:
 – Established an update to the ABB Responsible Gambling 
Code incorporating new requirements for advertising and player 
protection. The 2015 Responsible Gambling Code includes best 
practice standards for the use of behavioural data to identify 
customers who may be developing problems with their gambling 
based on agreed markers of harm – this measure will enable 
shop staff to engage earlier with customers who may be at risk; 
 – Piloted cross-industry self-exclusion schemes in Glasgow, 
Kent and London. Under these schemes, any customer who 
visits one of the participating shops and feels they are getting 
into difficulty with their gambling can now ‘self-exclude’ by 
contacting a central team of advisers, who will then tailor 
their self-exclusion based on locations they frequently visit. 
These pilot schemes are playing a key part in developing a 
multi-operator scheme that will be rolled out to all bookmakers 
during the spring of 2016; and
 – Launched a new Player Awareness Systems (PAS) initiative 
to minimise harm on machine play. The PAS initiative is a 
response to RGT research in 2014 that showed it was possible 
to distinguish between problem and non-problem gambling 
behaviour by players using gaming machines in licensed 
betting offices. All members of the ABB have signed up to the 
initiative, which is believed to be a world first in retail betting.
As founding members of the Senet Group, an independent body 
set up to promote responsible gambling standards, we have helped 
to run a high impact TV and advertising campaign to educate 
people about the risks of gambling and how to stay in control.
We are fully aligned with the GB Gambling Commission’s 
objectives to ensure that gambling is crime free, fair and open and 
children and vulnerable people are protected and indeed commit 
to these objectives across the whole of our business wherever 
we operate. During 2015 we were audited by the Gambling 
Commission – one of the first in the industry – and there were 
no major issues to report.
Incentivising responsible behaviours
Our Board Committee to oversee delivery against our responsible 
gambling objectives has continued to evolve. The Social 
Responsibility Committee is led by Sly Bailey, and comprises two 
independent non-executive directors, with the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive in attendance. Following our commitment in 2014, 
we have now established KPIs to link executive remuneration with 
responsible gambling performance. This is a major step for us and 
a first within the sector. This year we have focused the KPIs 
on: the roll out of our responsible gambling policy especially 
around colleague understanding and engagement; successful 
implementation of the DCMS regulations on machine play with 
stakes over £50; implementation of the Senet Group guidelines; 
and development of our own trial algorithm on responsible 
gambling. We recognise that many of the targets are focused 
on the short term and in implementing new codes and systems, 
which will also continue into next year. In the future we would 
like to establish KPIs which are directly linked to the ongoing 
responsible performance of the business and this is something 
we are currently working on.
Developing our algorithms to detect problem gambling
Late in 2014 we embarked on a pilot study to track customer 
behaviour and intervene when we suspect problem gambling 
might be occurring. Using data from customer loyalty cards, we 
systematically assessed the gambling habits of approximately 
8,000 shop customers on a weekly basis. We defined a set 
of rules that may indicate a player showing signs of problem 
gambling and monitored individual players’ behaviour against 
these. During 2015 we dedicated more resources to this 
algorithm trial, expanded the coverage, experimented with 
different ways of intervening and teamed up with external 
partners for greater insights. We also developed a separate 
algorithm for our Digital customers. Having said that, we are 
increasingly taking a multi-channel approach to customer 
development, including offers and promotions and hence 
need to take a multi-channel approach to monitoring customer 
behaviours. In an industry first, our algorithm trial now covers 
OTC transactions as well as machines and is in operation 
across the UK estate. Our aim is not only to detect and intervene 
when problem gambling occurs, but to identify the trajectories 
that lead to such behaviour. If we believe a customer is on a 
trajectory towards harm, then we will interact with them to try 
and prevent this from happening.
Positive interactions with our customers
This year we have continued to implement the ABB’s 
Responsible Gambling Code across our business. 
The Code highlights four areas for improved performance:
 – Providing adequate information on how to gamble responsibly;
 – Providing tools to help customers better control their activity;
 – Training staff to detect signs of potential problems; and
 – Undertaking central analysis of data to spot signs of 
abnormal activity.
We have stepped up the promotion of responsible gambling 
messages. As part of this, we have introduced more prominent, 
more frequent and clearer messages on staying in control in 
our shops, on our machines and across our Digital estate.
Supporting research, education and treatment
We promote multiple harm minimisation initiatives through 
our support of the Responsible Gambling Trust (RGT). 
Organisations that benefited from RGT funding in 2014 
included GamCare, the National Problem Gambling Clinic 
(CNWL) and the Gordon Moody Association.
Our total contribution to RGT amounted to £682,500 in 2015.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Strategic report
Keeping crime out of gambling
Reducing crime and anti-social behaviour remains a key priority 
for us. Our efforts to date have been focused on machine 
damage, monitoring customer behaviour in and around our 
shops and eliminating gambling related crime (such as money 
laundering). We have also continued to be vigilant and active 
on all matters relating to sporting integrity. 
Ladbrokes’ dedicated Anti-Money Laundering (AML) team 
ensures compliance with AML and anti-terrorism financing 
legislation wherever we operate. To this effect, we have 
established a comprehensive compliance programme, 
including detection and monitoring systems across all our 
business activities.
Similarly, health and safety is another key priority for us. 
During the year Jim Mullen, CEO, emphasised the importance 
of having a robust health and safety culture throughout the 
business. As part of implementing his new strategy, we have 
looked at how we approach health and safety and decided to 
make some changes. These largely affect the structure and 
reporting lines but we are also embarking on a cultural shift 
to re-enforce that everybody has a part to play in this vital area. 
Separate to this, within our retail estate we have decided to move 
to single scheduling in the evenings to a voluntary basis only. 
Betting shops have some of the lowest levels of crime among 
high street retailers. However, during 2015 we were unfortunate 
to have a serious incident involving the attack of one of our 
employees. This is currently the subject of an ongoing criminal 
prosecution by the Crown Prosecution Service against  
the attackers.
Where possible, we work in partnership with local authorities 
and other bodies to ensure gambling remains crime free. 
Our partners include Crimestoppers, the Association of 
Business Crime Partnerships and the Safe Bet Alliance (SBA). 
We also continue to support the SBA’s National Standards 
for Bookmakers.
Protecting our customers and keeping our data safe
Having effective data and information security systems in place 
is only a first step to protecting our customer and corporate 
information. Human behaviour can be the biggest threat to 
maintaining cyber security. To address this we have developed 
a comprehensive cyber security programme based on the UK 
Government’s 10 steps to Cyber Security, and, during 2015, 
launched a new information security web portal to help 
educate our employees and tell them what they need to know 
to minimise our risks. We will be implementing further elements 
of this programme in 2016, including global staff training and 
development of our IT monitoring and security systems.
Benchmarking our performance
We continually compare our performance with that of our 
peers through external benchmarking and peer review. 
We actively engage with two investor indices, the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) and FTSE4Good – both provide us 
with benchmarking information on our CR and sustainability 
programmes. For the 13th consecutive year we have been 
a constituent of the DJSI, an elite index for responsible 
companies. We are the only European betting company 
included in the prestigious World Index, achieving maximum 
scores of 100% for our approach to responsible gambling 
and our anti-crime measures. Since 2002 we have also 
been a member of FTSE4Good. This year we were ranked 
in the 99th percentile of companies in our industry segment, 
achieving maximum scores for customer responsibility 
and corporate governance.
Having a positive impact on our communities
An employer of choice
As our international operations continue to grow, it’s important 
that our people have plenty of reasons to be excited about 
working at Ladbrokes and grow with us. From the moment 
someone joins us, training and career progression is our top 
priority. We’re proud of our ‘grow our own’ approach and we 
offer all of our people every opportunity they need to develop 
and progress with us. Our Chief Executive, Jim Mullen is a case 
in point, since he started life in the industry working as a retail 
assistant in a shop in Glasgow.
We have further developed our learning and development 
programmes, across all our grades, and extended our ‘Females 
in Leadership’ programme, offering mentoring opportunities and 
increasing the visibility of senior female role models.
 
Gender diversity — females as a % of total employees
Group board
25% 22%
2015 2014
13%
15%
2015
2014
7 out of 55
11 out of 73
20%
19%
2015
2014
50 out of 255
45 out of 240
53%
55%
2015
2014
7,403 out of 14,055
6,817 out of 12,396
All employees
(3)
Senior managers
(2)
Directors of Group companies
(1)
(1) 2014 data restated to be the number of individuals who were directors  
of Group companies rather than the number of directorships.
(2) The top four management grades, including those who were also directors 
of Group companies.
(3) 2015 data includes UK, Ireland, Gibraltar and Australia. 2014 data for the UK only. 
Our policies remain consistent with the requirements of the 
Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the spirit of the 
International Labour Organization core labour standards.
Corporate responsibility continued
34 ladbrokesplc.com Employees of the future engaging with our communities
The Ladbrokes UK-wide apprenticeship scheme is in its third 
year and has grown steadily. We received over 13,200 
applications to join the scheme in 2015, with a selection of 419 
eventually joining us. We lifted the maximum age-restriction of 
24 years so that any talented candidate could secure a place. 
The 12-month, fully supported, development programme 
provides candidates with accredited training in customer 
service, literacy and numeracy and responsible gambling. 
Upon completion, successful apprentices obtain an NVQ 
Level 2 in Customer Service and a position in one of our shops.
Economic contribution to society
At Ladbrokes we employ over 14,700 people across 15 countries, 
contributing substantially to economic activity and employment 
wherever we do business. According to research conducted in 
2013, the UK betting industry directly accounts for £2.3 billion 
toward GDP and 38,800 full-time equivalent jobs. The indirect 
economic footprint is even greater, amounting to £5 billion 
and around 100,000 full-time equivalent jobs in total. In 2015, 
Ladbrokes paid a total of £264m in wages and salaries, of 
which £232m was in the UK. 
Our tax impacts
Tax revenue is vital to economic prosperity and social stability. 
We recognise that our contribution to governments and national 
finances through the taxes we pay is important and significant. 
Our approach to tax payments and disclosure is guided by the 
four principles below:
 – Complying with and following the law in all countries 
of operation;
 – Being transparent in our reporting of tax affairs to all 
our stakeholders, meeting all regulatory requirements 
and reflecting best practice;
 – Engaging proactively and openly with local and national 
tax authorities; and 
 – Driving sustainable returns for our shareholders.
We take part in PwC’s Total Tax Contribution survey, an annual 
benchmarking exercise comparing the total tax contribution 
and wider socio-economic impacts of some of the biggest 
companies in the UK. Of the ~100 companies taking part in the 
assessment, Ladbrokes is among the smallest when measured 
by market capitalisation. However, the 2015 results show that 
Ladbrokes punches well above its weight, ranking 26th for taxes 
borne in the UK and 57th for wages and salaries paid in the UK.
It is clear that the betting sector is heavily taxed. In 2015 our 
effective tax-rate on profits amounted to 86%. This covers tax 
contributions of over £20m to local councils in the UK and over 
£277m in taxes to the UK Treasury and the greyhound and horse 
racing industries. Internationally, we paid an additional £42.8m in 
taxes across our markets of operation.
Operating with integrity
As with any major business, our activities have an impact on 
the environment. Our main impact is caused by the electricity 
and gas used on our premises. Fossil fuel consumption emits 
greenhouse gases (GHG) which contribute to climate change. 
Climate change in turn poses a risk to our business, especially 
as we expand into overseas markets.
Our carbon footprint
Our GHG emissions decreased by 11% in 2015. The energy 
usage of our GB shop estate decreased by 3.3%, mainly due 
to the implementation of new LED lighting systems.
Global GHG emissions by revenue
1,2,3,4
2015 2014
Metric tonnes CO
2
e per £m net revenue 39.6 45.9
 
GHG emissions from our global operations in tonnes CO
2
e
 GB emissions  International emissions
42,419 2015 4,928
47,204 2014 5,939
41,331 2013 6,429
(1) Based on 2015 UK Defra GHG reporting guidance and conversion factors and includes 
Scope 1: direct emissions from the combustion of fuel and Scope 2: indirect emissions 
from the purchase of electricity. 
(2) Emissions from our global operations include those arising from our businesses in 
the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Gibraltar and Spain. We are working on gathering GHG 
data for our other overseas activities. We estimate (based on pro-rata headcount) 
that this will increase our global GHG emissions by no more than an additional 3%.
(3) Excluding fugitive emissions from refrigerants, which represent less than 2% of GHG 
emissions from our business operations.
(4) Excluding High Rollers.
For more information
Our CR Report contains further details on Fair Play at Ladbrokes. 
Our full disclosure and supporting documents are available at 
http://www.ladbrokesplc.com/corporate-responsibility.
Ladbrokes is a proud constituent of the following indices
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Governance
1
JOHN M KELLY OBE (68)
Chairman
John was appointed as 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in September 2010, 
and subsequently as Chairman 
in December 2015.
Skills and experience
John brings extensive 
experience from the gaming and 
betting industry having previously 
been a Board member of a number 
of betting companies. With over 30 
years’ experience as a director in a 
wide range of leisure companies, 
John also has a wealth of experience 
to draw from in his role as Chairman 
and leader of the Board.
Career experience 
Founder and Chief Executive of 
Gala Coral Group having led a 
management buy-in from Bass Plc 
in 1997 and subsequently became 
Chairman. After founding Gala 
Coral, he was a Board member 
at Mecca Leisure Limited, the 
Chairman of Trainline.com and 
Chairman of Novus Leisure Limited. 
He was also a Board member of 
The Prince of Wales’ Business in 
the Community Charity. 
Other roles
Chairman of Kings Park Capital LLP 
Advisory Board and Kings Park 
Capital LLP Investment Committee 
and co-founder of Dunelmia 
Partners LLP. 
Committee membership  
Nomination Committee (Chairman) 
and Remuneration Committee.
3
IAN BULL (55)
Chief Financial Officer
Ian was appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer in July 2011.
Skills and experience
Ian’s skills and extensive experience 
in finance, with over 25 years  
in finance-based roles, allows  
him to effectively manage the 
Group’s affairs relating to 
accounting, tax, treasury and 
investor relations. Ian also brings 
commercial experience to the 
Board’s discussions. 
Career experience
Group Finance Director of Greene 
King plc and held a number of 
senior finance positions with BT 
Group plc, including CEO of BT 
Retail Enterprises and CFO of BT 
Retail. Prior to this he was Vice 
President, Finance of Buena Vista 
Home Entertainment (Walt Disney 
Group) and held senior finance 
positions with Whitbread plc. 
Other roles
Non-Executive Director of St 
Modwen Properties Plc.
Committee membership
None.
2
JIM MULLEN (45)
Chief Executive Officer
Jim was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer in April 2015 
and a director in May 2015. 
Skills and experience
Jim’s extensive experience in 
the gaming and betting industry, 
particularly online gaming, brings 
valuable insight to lead the Group 
and implement the strategy to grow 
our recreational customer base and 
build scale.
Career experience
Joined Ladbrokes in November 
2013 as Managing Director of 
the Digital business. Prior to joining 
Ladbrokes, Jim was Chief Operating 
Officer for William Hill’s Digital 
operations for three years and 
held senior positions at the Murray 
Group, Arc Worldwide and News 
International where he was Director 
of Digital Strategy. 
Other roles
None.
Committee membership
None.
4
CHRISTINE HODGSON (51)
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Christine was appointed as 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2012 and as 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in December 2015.
Skills and experience
Christine has extensive experience 
in business leadership, finance, 
accounting and technology having 
worked in a number of international 
organisations. This brings valuable 
experience to Board and 
Committee discussions.
Career experience
Christine was a senior manager 
at Coopers & Lybrand and the 
Corporate Development Director 
of Ronson plc before joining 
Capgemini, where she has held 
various UK and global roles 
including CEO of Technology 
Services North West Europe and 
CFO of Global Outsourcing.
Other roles
Chairman of Capgemini UK 
and Non-Executive Director of 
Standard Chartered PLC. Christine 
is a Board member of The Prince of 
Wales’ Business in the Community 
Charity and sits on the Audit 
Committee of The Queen Elizabeth 
Diamond Jubilee Trust. 
Committee membership
Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Social 
Responsibility Committee.
Board of Directors
1
2
3
4
36 ladbrokesplc.com 5
SLY BAILEY (54)
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Sly was appointed as  
Independent Non-Executive 
Director in November 2009.
Skills and experience
Sly brings extensive skills and 
experience in media, marketing 
and sales along with broad 
business experience gained 
as both a senior executive and 
non-executive director in various 
public and private companies and 
charitable organisations. She also 
has experience as a director in the 
successful sale and purchase of 
a number of businesses.
Career experience
Chief Executive of Trinity Mirror plc 
and Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of the Press 
Association. Sly also held senior 
positions with IPC Media Limited, 
including Chief Executive, and was 
also Senior Independent Director 
and Remuneration Committee 
Chairman of EMI plc, Non-Executive 
Director of Littlewoods Plc, 
President of NewstrAid and 
Governor of the English National 
Ballet School.
Other roles
Non-Executive Director 
of Greencore Group plc and the 
London Real Estate Exchange.
Committee membership
Social Responsibility Committee 
(Chairman), Nomination Committee 
and Remuneration Committee.
7
RICHARD MOROSS MBE (38)
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Richard was appointed as 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2012.
Skills and experience
Richard is a digital entrepreneur 
and brings over 15 years of digital 
industry experience. Having worked 
in the London technology sector 
since 2000, Richard has been 
featured in the ‘Wired 100’ and 
‘Media Guardian 100’ lists, was 
named amongst the Telegraph 
Newspaper’s ‘1,000 Most Powerful 
People in British Business’, and 
was ranked in the Guardian 
Newspaper’s top 10 most 
influential people in digital media.
Career experience
Founder of Moo.com. Prior to this, 
he worked for the design company, 
Imagination, sorted.com and  
the BBC.
Other roles
Chief Executive of Moo.com, a 
member of the Government’s Tech 
City Advisory Group, the Young 
Presidents Organisation and the 
International Academy of Digital Arts  
and Sciences.
Committee membership
Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee.
6
DAVID MARTIN (64)
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
David was appointed as 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director in October 2013.
Skills and experience
David has a wealth of experience 
leading and building a highly 
successful major pan-European 
growth business from a strong UK 
base in regulated and non-regulated 
markets, involving multiple M&A 
activity, change management in 
labour intensive operations and 
contract and stakeholder 
management across many 
differing cultures.
Career experience
Chief Executive of Arriva plc, having 
previously been Deputy Chief 
Executive and Group Managing 
Director of its International business. 
David joined Arriva plc on its 
acquisition of British Bus plc and 
became a Board member. He was 
previously involved in the acquisition 
of National Express and subsequent 
management buy-outs leading to the 
creation of British Bus Group Limited. 
Prior to joining the bus industry, 
he held various senior financial 
positions, including Financial Director 
of Holyhead Group.
Other roles
Director of Arriva plc.
Committee membership
Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman), Audit Committee, 
and Nomination Committee.
8
MARK PAIN (54)
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Mark Pain was appointed as 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director in December 2015.
Skills and experience
Mark brings a range of skills 
and experience in financial 
management, strategic planning, 
business leadership and change. 
He also has over 17 years’ 
experience as a board director  
in a number of sectors.
Career experience
Held senior executive and board 
positions at Abbey National plc, 
was Group Finance Director of 
Barratt Developments PLC and 
has also been a Non-Executive 
Director on the boards of LSL 
Property Services plc, Punch 
Taverns plc and Spirit Pub 
Group plc.
Other roles
Chairman and a non-executive 
of London Square Developments 
Limited, Senior Independent 
Director of Johnston Press Plc, 
a Non-Executive Director of the  
Yorkshire Building Society 
and Aviva Insurance Ltd and 
a Trustee of Somerset House.
Committee membership
Audit Committee (Chairman) 
and Nomination Committee.
5
6
7
8
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Governance
Corporate governance
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report 
for 2015 and my first as Chairman of the Company.
During 2015, the Company again complied fully with all 
of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In 2016, I will be conducting a review of the Company’s 
governance structure and arrangements to ensure they 
are robust and appropriate in light of the proposed merger 
with certain businesses of Gala Coral, which, if completed, 
will form Ladbrokes Coral plc. Any proposed changes will 
be implemented during 2016 and will be reported in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016.
Board composition
During the year, we welcomed two new directors to the 
Board: Jim Mullen succeeded Richard Glynn as Chief 
Executive on 1 April 2015 and was subsequently appointed 
as a director on 7 May 2015 and Mark Pain joined as 
Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2015.
Darren Shapland retired as Non-Executive Director on 
24 September 2015, having served for six years on the Board 
and Peter Erskine retired as Chairman on 3 December 2015 
after serving as Chairman of the Company for six years.  
As announced in September 2015, Ian Bull will be retiring from 
the Board at the end of February 2016. I would like to thank 
Darren, Peter and Ian for their commitment and contribution 
to the Board during their tenures with the Company.
Further details on the appointment processes are contained 
in the Nomination Committee Report on page 48.
Committee memberships
Following my appointment as Chairman of the Board, 
I also became Chairman of the Nomination Committee and 
Christine Hodgson took over as Senior Independent Director. 
During the year, there were also a number of other changes 
to the Committee memberships: Mark Pain was appointed 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and David Martin was 
also appointed as a member of the Audit Committee; 
Christine Hodgson and Darren Shapland were appointed 
as members of the Nomination Committee; I was appointed 
as a member of the Remuneration Committee; and Sly Bailey 
was appointed as a member, and subsequently became 
Chairman, of the Social Responsibility Committee. Mark Pain 
has subsequently been appointed as a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Board effectiveness
In 2015, we again conducted an external evaluation of the 
Board and its Committees. Details are contained on pages 
40 and 41.
John M Kelly
Chairman
BOARD FOCUS DURING 2015 
•  Approved the proposed merger with certain 
businesses of Gala Coral
• Appointment of new Chief Executive
• Approval of new strategic plan
• Agreed a new financing arrangement
• Reviewed cyber security risk
•  Considered talent management and culture
• Assessed the performance of the business units
•  Reviewed the Group’s risk tolerance and risk 
management systems
For further details on the Board’s activities during 2015, 
see page 40.
BOARD FOCUS FOR 2016
• Delivering against strategic plan
• Planning for the integration of certain businesses 
of Gala Coral
• Review the governance structure in light of the 
proposed enlarged Group
• Embed culture further into the Company
• Hold additional deep dives on specific areas of 
the business
• Increased site visits for the non-executive directors
38 ladbrokesplc.com UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) published in 
2014 by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is available at 
www.frc.org.uk. This Governance section of the Annual Report, 
including the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 71 
and the disclosures contained in the Risks section on pages 26 
to 30, provides details of how the Company applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of the Code during 2015.
The Board
Role
The Board provides strategic leadership and oversight. It is 
responsible for the Company’s culture, values and ethical 
standards and is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group’s operations. Each director 
brings experience, independence of character and judgement 
to their role. The independent non-executive directors bring a 
broad perspective to the deliberations of the Board. They 
support the development of the Group’s strategic direction, 
provide critical and constructive challenge to the executive 
directors and exercise oversight through their participation in 
the work of the Board’s principal Committees on matters such 
as remuneration, risk management systems, financial controls, 
financial reporting, the appointment of further directors and 
social responsibility.
Composition
The Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive 
directors, the Senior Independent Director and four 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The names and 
significant commitments of all directors are contained on  
pages 36 and 37. There were no significant changes to those 
commitments during 2015.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board.
Diversity
The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its 
Boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and 
supports its overall objectives within the business strategy when 
it includes the best people representing a range of capabilities, 
experience and perspectives. In line with this, the Company 
aims to foster a diverse Board, including a mix of gender, 
ethnicity and backgrounds. The Nomination Committee Report 
on page 48 contains further information on Board composition 
and the charts above illustrate the diversity of the Board.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for its decision and approval which includes:
 – Approval of the strategic and annual profit plans;
 – Key announcements e.g. financial statements;
 – Dividend declarations;
 – Board appointments;
 – Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals;
 – Material contracts; and
 – Treasury policy and other Group policies.
The section ‘Financial reporting, internal control and risk 
management systems’ on pages 41 to 43 contains further 
information on how the Board operates.
Operation of the Board
Board attendance
The Board and its Committees meet regularly according to  
a schedule linked to key events in the Company’s corporate 
calendar. Ad hoc meetings are also arranged to consider matters 
requiring review and decision outside the scheduled meetings. 
During the year, nine scheduled Board meetings were held. Six 
additional Board meetings were held, five were in relation to the 
proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral and one 
was to approve the appointment of the Chief Executive.
Board Diversity 
The Board has endorsed the aims of the Davis Report entitled ‘Women 
on Boards’ and in 2015 aimed to increase the percentage of women on 
the Board to 25% by 2016. Following the change in directors during the 
year, the Board has met its aim with the current percentage of women 
on the Board having increased from 22% in 2014 to 25%. The charts 
illustrate the diversity of the Board in terms of gender, balance of 
executive directors to non-executive directors (‘NEDs’) and length 
of tenure of the NEDs as at 31 December 2015.
Male 75%
Female 25%
Chairman 12%
Executive director 25%
Non-executive 
director 63%
1-3 years 40%
3-6 years 40%
6-9 years 20%
The following sets out the division of responsibilities on the Board:
Role Director Responsibility
Chairman John Kelly Responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board and its effectiveness 
in all respects, and for relations with shareholders.
Chief Executive Jim Mullen To manage the Group’s operations, including the development of strategic plans and initiatives 
to be approved by the Board, and subsequent implementation.
Chief Financial Officer Ian Bull To manage all aspects of the Group’s financial affairs and to contribute to the management of the 
Group’s operations.
Senior Independent  
Director
Christine Hodgson To act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors 
where necessary. Also to be available to shareholders if they have concerns, where contact through 
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve the 
concern, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Sly Bailey, David 
Martin, Richard 
Moross and  
Mark Pain
To constructively challenge the executive directors, develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the 
performance of management, satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information, controls 
and systems of risk management and to set the levels of remuneration for executive directors and 
senior management.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Governance
In addition to the Board meetings, during the year, the Chairman 
met with the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors present.
Attendance at Board meetings held during the year is shown 
below:
Directors as at 
31 December 2015
Number of meetings 
eligible to attend
Number of meetings
attended
John Kelly 15 15
Jim Mullen
(1)
11 11
Ian Bull 15 15
Sly Bailey
(2)
15 14
Christine Hodgson 15 15
David Martin
(3)
15 14
Richard Moross 15 15
Mark Pain
(4)
1 1
Former directors
Peter Erskine
(5)
15 15
Richard Glynn
(6)
3 2
Darren Shapland
(7)
12 12
(1) Jim Mullen was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2015.
(2) Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
(3) David Martin was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior personal commitments.
(4) Mark Pain was appointed to the Board on 3 December 2015.
(5) Peter Erskine ceased to be a director on 3 December 2015.
(6) Richard Glynn ceased to be a director on 31 March 2015. He was unable to attend one 
Board meeting due to it relating to the appointment of the Chief Executive.
(7) Darren Shapland ceased to be a director on 24 September 2015. 
Board and Committees support
The Company has systems in place to ensure that the Board is 
supplied with appropriate and timely information to enable it to 
discharge its duties. An encrypted electronic Board Portal is 
used to distribute Board and Committee papers and to provide 
efficient distribution of business updates and other resources 
to the Board. Board members request additional information or 
variations to regular reporting as required. A procedure exists 
for directors to seek independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties if necessary. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board 
through the Chairman and the Committees on all governance 
matters. All directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary. 
The Committees are also provided with sufficient resources 
to undertake their duties. They have access to the Company 
Secretary (who acts as secretary to all Committees), all other 
employees and is able to take independent legal or professional 
advice when they believe it is necessary to do so.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
A combination of tailored Board and Committee agenda items 
and other Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the 
directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge 
and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role both 
on the Board and on Board Committees. In addition, external 
seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to 
directors. The Company provides the necessary resources for 
developing and updating directors’ knowledge and capabilities.
Board activities
Details of the Board’s main areas of focus during the year are 
summarised below:
Strategy, finance and 
performance
 – Considered and assessed the strategic and 
operational performance of each business unit
 – Held deep-dive sessions on the Digital and 
Retail businesses
 – Approved a new strategic plan for the Group
 – Reviewed and approved that the Retail 
business in the Republic of Ireland be entered 
into Examinership
 – Considered and approved revised terms on 
the commercial arrangements with Playtech
 – Reviewed and approved a new financing 
arrangement
 – Considered and approved the merger 
between the Company and certain business 
of Gala Coral.
Governance  
and risk
 – Reviewed and approved the Group’s 
anti-bribery compliance programme and the 
revised Anti-Bribery Policy Statement
 – Reviewed the Group’s cyber security risk 
management plan
 – Reviewed the overall risk tolerance for the 
Group and that the processes for ensuring 
the necessary risk management systems and 
culture were embedded within the business.
Leadership, culture 
and employees
 – Considered the senior management structure 
given the change in Chief Executive
 – Reviewed and approved the revised 
Whistleblowing Policy
 – Assessed with support of the Nomination 
Committee, the plans relating to talent 
management, succession planning and the 
culture and values to be embedded within 
the Company.
Shareholder 
engagement
 – Regularly reviewed reports on investor 
relations activity
 – Reviewed and approved the Circular and 
Notice of General Meeting to shareholders 
with regards to the proposed merger with 
certain businesses of Gala Coral.
Board evaluation
An annual formal Board evaluation is undertaken focusing 
on the performance of the Board and of its Committees and 
individual directors. In 2015, the evaluation was externally 
facilitated by Lintstock Limited. Other than the provision of a 
software solution to manage insider lists, Lintstock has no other 
connection with the Company. The evaluation exercise used 
questionnaires tailored to the requirements and specific 
circumstances of the Company. The questionnaires were 
completed by each director in relation to their own performance 
and on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees. 
The evaluation was thematic and considered:
 – Board composition, expertise and dynamics;
 – Board support and time management;
 – Board Committees;
 – Strategic oversight;
 – Risk management and internal control;
 – Succession planning and human resources management; and
 – Priorities for change.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board and 
the individual Committees and actions arising were agreed.
Corporate governance continued
40 ladbrokesplc.com In addition, the Chairman conducted an appraisal of each 
director. The Senior Independent Director, having consulted 
with each of the other directors, conducted an appraisal 
interview with the Chairman. 
The Board’s 2015 evaluation highlighted a number of areas 
of focus, including:
 – Enhancing the Board’s engagement with the Retail and 
Digital businesses through a tailored programme of 
operational visits and management presentations;
 – More effective use of the depth of talent and experience 
that exists around the Board table; and
 – Refreshing the Board’s membership to ensure that the 
composition is appropriate for the Group’s next phase 
of development.
An update on progress in these areas will be provided in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016.
In 2014, the annual evaluation highlighted a number of areas 
of focus and progress against these areas is as follows:
2014 area of focus Progress made during 2015
Reviewing the structure and content 
of papers presented to the Board
A revised Board pack structure has 
been agreed with the Chairman 
and is being implemented in 2016.
Increasing the proportion of time at 
meetings devoted to discussions 
on strategic issues and a range of 
specific topics
A greater proportion of the Board’s 
meeting time was devoted to 
strategy during the year.
Increased focus on the Group’s 
risk management process, principal 
risks and key dependencies
The frequency of reporting on 
principal risks has been increased.
Greater exposure to senior 
management and more 
engagement in the evaluation 
of the Group’s talent pool
The Nomination Committee’s 
membership was extended to 
include all Independent Non-
Executive Directors and the 
Committee receives regular 
updates on senior management 
and talent developments.
Board committees
The Board has four principal Committees and two standing 
Committees:
BOARD
Audit 
Committee
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Disclosure
Committee
Finance 
Committee
Principal Committees
The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit 
Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee 
and Social Responsibility Committee. The membership of 
each of the Committees is comprised of only independent 
non-executive directors. Terms of Reference for the principal 
Committees are available on the Company’s website at  
www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors. Details of the responsibilities 
and activities of the principal Committees are outlined in each  
of the respective reports on pages 44 to 71. 
Standing Committees
In addition to the principal Committees, the Board has 
established two standing Committees which review and 
approve routine operating and regulatory matters. These 
standing Committees generally comprise any two of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer. 
The Disclosure Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to 
consider and make decisions relating to the handling of inside 
information concerning the Company and the Group. The 
Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely 
and accurate disclosure of inside information to the market in 
accordance with the Company’s obligations under the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules and for 
monitoring compliance with the Company’s disclosure controls 
and procedures. 
The Finance Committee meets as required to deal with all 
routine business (excluding matters that are specifically 
reserved to the Board or to another Committee) and specific 
matters delegated to it by the Board requiring attention between 
scheduled Board meetings. 
Attendance at meetings of the Disclosure Committee and 
Finance Committee are set out in the table below:
Directors as at 31 December 2015 Disclosure Committee Finance Committee
John Kelly 0 1
Jim Mullen 3 22
Ian Bull 8 28
Former directors
Peter Erskine 5 6
Richard Glynn 2 1
In addition, the Executive Committee, Risk Committee and 
Investment Committee referred to elsewhere in this Annual 
Report are not formal Board Committees.
Financial reporting, internal control and 
risk management systems
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and 
risk management systems operating throughout the Group and 
for reviewing their effectiveness. No such systems can provide 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
Group’s systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide 
the Board with reasonable assurance that potential problems 
will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner 
for appropriate action. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Governance
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable. The Board 
has reviewed the Annual Report 2015 and, taken as a whole, 
considers it to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides shareholders with information necessary to assess 
the Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy. In arriving at this conclusion, the Board’s review 
draws on its collective knowledge of the business, which is 
regularly updated by management reports and presentations 
at scheduled Board and Committee meetings and other 
business updates provided between meetings.
The Company had procedures in place throughout the year 
and up to 22 February 2016, the date of approval of this Annual 
Report, which accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 
published by the FRC in September 2014. The Board has 
delegated the detailed design of the systems of internal control 
and risk management to the executive directors. 
Control framework
The control framework and key procedures during 2015 in 
relation to the financial reporting process were as follows. 
The Group operates through two primary Business Channels 
and a number of Business Support Units:
Operations
Business Support
Marketing Trading, Pricing and Liability Management
Information Technology Human Resources
Corporate Development Finance Corporate Communications
Digital Retail
Legal
There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these 
Business Channels and Business Support Units.
Business planning 
Corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives are 
reviewed annually by the Board and the Group profit plan is 
approved by the Board. The Business Support Unit 
management integrate Group-wide objectives into business 
strategies for presentation to the Board with supporting financial 
objectives. Operating plans for each Business Support Unit 
comprise financial and operating targets, capital expenditure 
proposals and performance indicators and are reviewed by the 
Executive Committee.
Reporting and oversight
The Chief Executive and the Executive Heads comprise the 
Executive Committee and meet monthly to consider Group 
strategy, financial performance, business development and 
management issues. Other senior executives participate as 
appropriate. In addition, there are weekly and monthly financial 
and operational review meetings together with an annual 
programme of plan/reforecasting and strategy reviews attended 
by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer together  
with, as appropriate, other Executive Heads and executives. 
The Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads 
covering areas such as operations, forecasts, business 
development, strategic planning, human resources, legal  
and corporate matters, compliance, health and safety and 
corporate responsibility. 
Investment
There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval 
of investment expenditure and asset disposals. An Investment 
Committee comprising of the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer, consider all significant financial commitments, 
including past investment appraisals. Major projects are 
reported on at each scheduled Board meeting. Post-investment 
appraisals are undertaken on a systematic basis and are formally 
reviewed by both the Board and the Investment Committee.
Risk
An ongoing process is in place for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the risks faced by the Group. Principal (including 
specific material) risks and their financial implications are 
appraised by the Executive Committee which is assisted by 
a committee of Business Support Unit executives (the Risk 
Committee). This is an integral part of the strategic planning 
process. The appropriateness of controls is considered, having 
regard to cost/benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks 
crystallising. Principal (including specific material) risks and 
actions to mitigate those risks are considered at Board meetings 
and are formally reviewed and approved by the Board twice 
yearly. Each significant risk is assigned executive director/
Executive Head ownership. During the year, the Group’s risk 
management systems were enhanced. A new Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework has been established, which includes 
an assessment of risk appetite and tolerance within the Group 
as a whole. The Board has conducted a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the Company and the Group. Details of 
the principal risks and how they are managed are shown on 
pages 26 to 29.
Policies and controls 
Key policies and control procedures (including treasury, 
compliance and information system controls) are documented 
and have Group-wide application. There are also operating 
procedure manuals that are integrated with Group-wide 
controls. High standards of business ethics and compliance 
with laws, regulations and internal policies are demanded from 
employees at all levels. To underpin the effectiveness of 
controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop management 
and other employees of high calibre, integrity and with  
appropriate disciplines. A system of bi-annual self-certification 
of compliance with key controls and procedures is operated 
throughout the Group. 
The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness 
of the systems of internal control and risk management  
is explained in the Audit Committee Report on page 45.  
The Group has an internal audit function, which is outsourced 
to Deloitte LLP, and reports to management and the Audit 
Corporate governance continued
42 ladbrokesplc.com Committee on Group operations. The Board also conducts a 
continual assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control 
and risk management systems. The assessment takes account 
of all significant aspects including risk assessment, the control 
environment and control activities, information and 
communication, and monitoring.
Anti-bribery and whistleblowing
The Board recognises that as a global betting and gaming 
business there is potential for exposure to bribery and 
corruption. Failure by employees, suppliers or agents to 
comply with anti-bribery and corruption legislation (including 
the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), 
or any failure in policies and procedures to monitor and 
prevent non-compliance, anywhere in the world, could result 
in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant 
damage to the reputation of the Company. 
The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, 
procedures, management systems and internal controls in 
place across the business to prevent bribery and corruption 
occurring. This includes policies on whistleblowing, anti-bribery, 
gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship. 
Supplementary audit, monitoring and review processes are 
designed to identify breaches of Group controls. The 
Whistleblowing Policy enables and encourages employees to 
report in confidence any possible malpractice, impropriety or 
other matters of concern which may arise in the business. Any 
matters raised in accordance with the Policy are investigated 
thoroughly and reports are provided at each meeting of the 
Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders
There is a regular programme of meetings with major 
institutional shareholders to consider the Group’s performance 
and prospects. In addition, presentations are made twice yearly 
after the announcement of results, the details of which, together 
with the Group’s financial reports and announcements, can be 
accessed at www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors. During 2015,  
the Chairman met with several institutional investors and their 
representative bodies in addition to results presentations, the 
Annual General Meeting and the General Meeting to approve 
the proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral  
(Gala Coral). Other directors are available to meet the 
Company’s major shareholders if requested. A report on 
investor relations, which includes updates on meetings with 
major institutional shareholders, is given at each Board meeting. 
The Company’s brokers also present to the Board annually. 
Principles of ownership, corporate governance and voting 
guidelines issued by the Company’s major institutional 
shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory 
organisations are circulated to, and considered by, the Board. 
The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects 
with its individual shareholders who have an opportunity to 
question the Board at the Annual General Meeting. Further 
information on our relations with shareholders is contained in 
the ‘Shareholder information’ section on page 142.
2015
During the year,  
the Company has  
reported to and  
engaged with investors  
as follows:
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Investor engagement Reporting event
 – 2014 Preliminary  
Results announced
 – Circular and Notice 
of Annual General 
Meeting made available
 – Q1 Trading Statement 
announced
 – Proposed merger with  
Gala Coral announced
 – New strategic plan 
announced
 – 2015 Interim Results 
announced
 – New financing  
arrangement announced
 – Q3 Trading Statement 
announced
 – Circular and Notice of 
General Meeting relating to 
the proposed merger with 
Gala Coral made available
 – Investor conference  
call on the 2014 
Preliminary Results
 – Analyst briefing  
on the 2014  
Preliminary Results
 – Investor conference  
call on the Q1 
Trading Statement
 – 2015 Annual 
General Meeting
 – Investor conference  
call on the proposed 
merger and new  
strategic plan
 – Analyst briefing on the 
proposed merger and 
new strategic plan
 – Investor conference  
call on the 2015  
Interim Results 
 – Analyst briefing on the 
2015 Interim Results
 – Meetings with 
institutional investors 
regarding the  
proposed merger  
with Gala Coral
 – Investor conference  
call on the Q3 Trading  
Statement
 – Meetings with 
institutional investors 
regarding the  
proposed merger  
with Gala Coral
 – General Meeting to 
approve the proposed 
merger with Gala Coral
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Composition and constitution
The Audit Committee oversees the Group’s financial reporting 
and internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with 
the external auditors. The Committee’s Terms of Reference, 
which are reviewed annually, are available on the Company’s 
website, www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors.
The Audit Committee comprises three members, all of whom 
are independent non-executive directors. Appointments to the 
Committee are made by the Board at the recommendation of 
the Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. The Board has satisfied itself that the 
Committee’s membership includes directors with recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
The members of the Committee that served during the year 
were:
Appointment date Committee role
Mark Pain 3 December 2015 Chairman
Christine Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member
David Martin 25 September 2015 Member
Former members
John Kelly
(1)
1 September 2010 Member
Darren Shapland
(2)
16 February 2010 Chairman
(1) John Kelly ceased to be a member of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
(2) Darren Shapland ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 24 September 2015.
Main responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 – Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of  
the Company and significant financial reporting issues  
and judgements;
 – Review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls 
and risk management systems;
 – Review the Company’s arrangements for its employees 
to raise concerns in confidence and procedures for 
detecting fraud;
 – Consider and approve the remit of work of the 
Company’s internal audit function, as well as monitor 
and review their effectiveness;
 – Oversee the relationship with the external auditor;
 – Review and approve the external annual audit plan and 
reviewing the finding of the audit;
 – Implement a policy on the supply of non-audit services 
by the external auditor; and
 – Review and monitor the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the activities of the Audit 
Committee during the year.
During the year, there were a number of changes to the 
membership of the Committee. I succeeded Darren 
Shapland as Chairman of the Committee, David Martin 
was appointed as a member and John Kelly ceased to 
be a member following his appointment as Chairman of 
the Company.
I would like to thank Darren for his contribution to the 
work of the Committee during his six years on the Board.
In addition to our usual matters, including the financial 
results for the full year and half year and the quarterly 
trading statements, applicable accounting policies 
and going concern assumptions, the Committee has 
increased its focus on the Group’s risk management 
processes and procedures, specifically in relation to the 
international businesses, and has also regularly reviewed 
the Group’s approach to managing cyber security.
A review was again carried out of the Committee’s 
effectiveness which concluded that the Committee 
continued to operate effectively. A number of areas of 
improvement were also identified, for which I will lead 
the implementation process.
Mark Pain
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate governance continued
44 ladbrokesplc.com Meetings attendance
The Committee meets as required, but not less than three 
times a year. Other directors, including the Chief Financial 
Officer, attend Audit Committee meetings. The Committee 
met for private discussions with the external auditor, whose 
representatives attend all of its meetings, together with the 
internal auditor, Deloitte LLP. 
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year 
and the attendance of Committee members is shown below:
Members as at 
31 December 2015
Number of meetings
eligible to attend
Number of meetings
 attended
Mark Pain 0 0
Christine Hodgson 5 5
David Martin
(1)
2 1
Former members
John Kelly 5 5
Darren Shapland 3 3
(1) David Martin was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business 
commitments. 
Committee activities
The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included:
 – The critical review of the significant financial reporting issues 
in connection with the preparation of the Company’s financial 
and related formal statements, with the assistance of reports 
received from management and the external auditor, including 
the process for assessing whether the going concern basis 
of accounting remains appropriate; 
 – Assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems 
established to identify, assess, manage and monitor 
financial and non-financial risks;
 – Monitoring the integrity and effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal financial controls by reference to:
 (a)  summaries of business risks and mitigating controls
 (b)  regular reports and presentations from the heads of key 
risk functions, internal audit and external audit
 (c)  the results of the system of annual self-certification of 
compliance with key controls and procedures;
 – Monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness 
of the internal audit function, including any actions taken 
following any significant failures in internal controls. During 
the year, the Committee focused on the control improvements 
required and progress made. Whilst progress has been steady, 
there remain improvements to be made so that the necessary 
controls are embedded fully across the Group’s operations;
 – Reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, 
the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process 
reviewing its effectiveness;
 – Reviewing the independence and objectivity of the  
external auditor; and
 – Considered the due diligence performed with regard to the 
disclosures made in the Circular to shareholders in relation to 
the proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral.
External auditor
The Company’s external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC), were appointed at the Annual General Meeting held 
on 7 May 2014 following a competitive tender process. The 
provision of statutory audit services to the Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings will be subject to a competitive tender 
process prior to 7 May 2024.
The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions 
taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements 
and with best practice designed to ensure its independence. 
In addition, the Committee has adopted a policy on the 
engagement of external auditors for the provision of non-audit 
services which can be viewed at www.ladbrokesplc.com/
investors.
The policy sets out controls intended to ensure that the 
independence of the external auditor is not impaired 
and stipulates:
 – The nature of non-audit services that are permitted to 
be performed by the external auditor;
 – Levels of authority for management to engage the external 
auditor for approved non-audit services; and
 – That any non-audit services to be provided by the external 
auditor for a single project or specific services for fees in 
excess of £100,000 must be approved in advance by 
the Committee.
Details of non-audit services are presented to the Committee 
for its review at each meeting. Fees for non-audit services 
provided by PwC in the year amounted to £2.0m (2014: £0.5m) 
of which £1.6m related to one-off services provided for the 
proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral. The 
Committee considered that PwC was best placed to perform 
this work because of its knowledge of the Group which would 
enable the service to be provided efficiently. The Committee is 
satisfied that the provision of approved non-audit services has 
not compromised the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor.
The performance of the external auditor is reviewed by the 
Committee on an annual basis through a qualitative assessment 
of the services provided against the agreed audit plan and 
taking account of feedback received from management. 
Following this review the Committee is satisfied that the 
external audit process operates effectively. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Governance
Accounting and key areas of judgement 
The main areas considered by the Committee in relation to 2015 are set out below:
Matter considered Action
Taxation
Accounting for uncertain tax positions and the level 
of deferred and current tax asset recognition and 
disclosure in relation to accumulated tax losses are 
based on a series of judgements. These judgements 
have an impact on the corporation tax rate and 
recognition of deferred tax assets in 2015 the Group 
has recognised a corporation tax credit of £35.0m 
(excluding the tax credit on exceptional items).  
In addition to the recognition, the Committee also 
considered the appropriateness of the disclosures 
provided in the Annual Report.
The Committee received regular reports from management on the 
corporation tax rate as well as the judgements exercised in arriving at 
the corporation tax rate, recognition of corporation tax credits and the 
deferred tax recognised and disclosed. Assumptions underlying the 
positions taken on significant deferred tax assets were supported by 
reports from other tax, advisory and legal firms. The Committee discussed 
the key judgements in relation to both the uncertain tax positions and 
understood the basis on which deferred and current tax was recognised 
or disclosed. The Committee also considered the work done and the 
conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
Carrying value of long-lived assets
In addition to the licences in the Retail estate, as 
a result of recent acquisitions and the significant 
level of investment in technology over the past 
three years, the Group has significant goodwill 
and other intangible assets which needed to be 
reviewed for impairment. In 2015, the Group has 
recognised an impairment loss of £53.2m in respect 
of long-lived assets.
The carrying value of all long-lived assets are tested for impairment 
annually. The Committee reviewed the methodology and the outcome 
of the various impairment review papers presented by management 
and reviewed the key assumptions in respect of each of the Retail and 
Digital businesses, understanding how these related to Board approved 
plans and forecasts. The Committee also reviewed analysis and 
support for the Group’s software assets and debated the basis for 
the impairments recorded. The Committee also considered the work done 
and the conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
Exceptional items
The Group classifies certain items in the income 
statement as exceptional, to allow a clearer 
understanding of the trading performance on a 
consistent and comparable basis together with an 
understanding of the effect of non-recurring or large 
individual transactions upon the overall profitability 
of the Group. In 2015, the Group has incurred total 
operating exceptional costs of £99.3m.
The Committee has reviewed the items considered exceptional 
by management which have been discussed at each of the past 
four Committee meetings. The Committee has challenged the 
appropriateness and classification of these items of costs as well as 
income as exceptional. The Committee also considered the work done 
and the conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
Corporate governance continued
46 ladbrokesplc.com NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Composition and constitution
The Nomination Committee reviews and makes recommendations 
to the Board on the composition of the Board and leads the process 
for the appointment of directors to the Board. The Committee’s 
Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available 
on the Company’s website, www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and all of 
the independent non-executive directors. Appointments to the 
Committee are made by the Board. 
The members of the Committee that served during the year were:
Appointment date Committee role
John Kelly
(1)
15 February 2011 Chairman
Sly Bailey 1 May 2013 Member
Christine Hodgson 31 March 2015 Member
David Martin 7 May 2014 Member
Richard Moross 31 March 2015 Member
Former members
Peter Erskine
(2)
18 February 2009 Chairman
Darren Shapland
(3)
1 May 2013 Member
(1) John Kelly was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
(2) Peter Erskine ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
(3) Darren Shapland ceased to be a member of the Committee on 24 September 2015.
Main responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 – Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, taking 
into account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity, and to make recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any changes;
 – Consider succession planning for directors and other senior 
executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities 
facing the Company;
 – Identify and nominate for approval by the Board, candidates 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise;
 – Prepare a job specification for the appointment of the Chairman;
 – Identify candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director 
and for membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Social 
Responsibility Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen 
of those Committees; and
 – Make recommendations to the Board concerning the directors 
standing for re-election by shareholders.
Meetings attendance
The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year. 
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year 
and the attendance of Committee members is shown below:
Members as at 
31 December 2015
Number of meetings
eligible to attend
Number of meetings
 attended
John Kelly 8 8
Sly Bailey
(1)
8 7
Christine Hodgson 5 5
David Martin
(2)
8 7
Richard Moross 5 5
Former members
Peter Erskine 8 8
Darren Shapland 5 5
(1) Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
(2) David Martin was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior personal commitments.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination 
Committee.
Christine Hodgson and Darren Shapland were appointed 
as additional members of the Committee during the year 
and, Mark Pain was also appointed as a member of the 
Committee on 25 January 2016. These appointments 
further strengthened the composition of the Committee.  
I was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 
December 2015.
During the year, the Committee led the processes for 
the appointment of the Chief Executive, a new Non-
Executive Director and the replacement of Chairman of 
the Company. Further details on the appointment 
processes can be found on page 48.
In light of the retirement of Ian Bull as Chief Financial 
Officer at the end of February 2016, the Committee 
also considered who would act as Chief Financial Officer 
until the proposed merger with certain businesses of  
Gala Coral was completed.
During 2016, the Committee will focus further on 
refreshing its membership and Board and senior 
management succession planning.
John M Kelly
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Governance
Committee activities
The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included:
 – Led the processes for the appointment of a new Chief 
Executive Officer and a new Non-Executive Director;
 – Considered the composition of the Board Committees and 
recommended to the Board that David Martin be appointed 
as a member of the Audit Committee following the departure 
of Darren Shapland, and that Sly Bailey be appointed as a 
member of the Social Responsibility Committee;
 – Led the process to consider candidates to replace Peter 
Erskine as Chairman of the Company. John Kelly was not 
involved in the Committee’s subsequent decision concerning 
his appointment as Chairman;
 – Following the appointment of John Kelly as Chairman of the 
Board, recommended that Christine Hodgson be appointed  
as Senior Independent Director and Sly Bailey be appointed 
as Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee;
 – Recommended the appointment of Richard Snow as Acting 
Chief Financial Officer; and
 – Considered the output of the 2014 Board evaluation in terms of 
candidates for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Diversity
The Company has a well established and published equal 
opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they fairly 
deal with all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, 
gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin. 
That policy applies on how people are selected to work at 
the Company and applies at all levels. The Company has 
a succession policy that ensures all key roles including 
director positions are considered and the Company considers 
candidates for roles from the widest possible field. The Board 
regularly reviews succession arrangements for all key roles and 
the Nomination Committee reviews succession arrangements 
for directors. The Strategic report includes details of wider 
workforce gender diversity which are shown on page 34.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled 
‘Women on Boards’ and when considering future 
appointments, with the support of the Nomination Committee, 
will aim to build on its current position. The Company currently 
has two women on the Board (Christine Hodgson and Sly 
Bailey) and therefore 25% of the Board is made up of women. 
The Company has therefore achieved its aspiration to increase 
the percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2016. 
The Board will continue to ensure appropriate representation 
by women, both on the Board and throughout the business, 
whilst at all times ensuring the Company selects on merit. 
The charts on page 39 illustrate the diversity of the Board.
The Committee continued to provide support for fostering and 
developing talent and increasing diversity in the talent pool. 
A series of presentations were made to the Committee which 
led to a number of constructive discussions. Their advice and 
support has assisted the management team in improving the 
content of their talent programmes and talent mapping exercises.
Time commitments
On 17 February 2016, the Committee considered the output 
of the 2015 Board evaluation, following which the Committee 
concluded that each of the current directors is devoting 
sufficient time to their duties and responsibilities and brings 
relevant skills and judgement to the work of the Board. Each of 
the current directors, with the exception of Ian Bull, will therefore 
stand for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Appointment of Jim Mullen
In 2014, the Committee began the process for the 
appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and appointed 
JCA Group and Korn Ferry to assist with the executive 
search process. JCA Group and Korn Ferry are both 
signatories to the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of 
Conduct. The process was led by the Chairman with regular 
updates being provided to the Board by the Committee.
The Board as a whole considered the specific qualities 
they wanted in the Chief Executive, which included:
 – Experience of the betting and gaming industry 
and a passion for the sports industry as a whole;
 – A proven track record as a successful leader; 
 – Knowledge and experience in operating an 
international business; and
 – Extensive and proven experience in the 
digital marketplace.
JCA Group and Korn Ferry proposed a number of 
candidates who were initially interviewed by the Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director. The final candidates were 
then interviewed by the non-executive directors, following 
which, it was determined by the Committee that it be 
recommended to the Board that Jim Mullen be appointed  
as Chief Executive from 1 April 2015. The recommendation 
was subsequently approved by the Board.
Following the identification of Jim Mullen as the preferred 
candidate, the Remuneration Committee approved a 
competitive remuneration package for Jim Mullen. 
Further details on this can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 53.
Appointment of Mark Pain
During the year, the Committee began the search for an 
independent non-executive director and engaged Lygon 
Group to identify suitable candidates to join the Board. 
Lygon Group is a signatory to the Executive Search Firms 
Voluntary Code of Conduct. 
As part of the Committee’s role in refreshing the Board, it 
was determined that the new non-executive director would 
be appointed to act as Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
and would also continue as a non-executive director of the 
enlarged Group should the merger with Gala Coral complete. 
Potential candidates were identified by Lygon Group and 
details were circulated to the Committee, following which a 
short-list of candidates was produced. Potential candidates 
were interviewed by Committee members, the executive 
directors and board members of Gala Coral. It was determined 
that Mark Pain be appointed as a non-executive director and 
the Committee recommended the appointment to the Board, 
which subsequently approved the appointment.
Appointment of Chairman
On 7 May 2015, it was announced that Peter Erskine would 
be retiring as Chairman during 2015 and that a search process 
would be undertaken to find his successor. Subsequently, 
Korn Ferry and Lygon were appointed to commence the 
search exercise. During the Board’s discussions around 
the proposed merger with Gala Coral it became clear that 
John Kelly’s in-depth industry experience, coupled with 
his understanding of the businesses and cultures of both 
the Company and Gala Coral, identified him as the prime 
candidate to succeed Peter Erskine. Following consultation 
with the Company’s major shareholders, John Kelly was 
appointed as Chairman with effect from 3 December 2015.
Corporate governance continued
48 ladbrokesplc.com SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT
Composition and constitution
The Social Responsibility Committee reviews and advises the 
Board on the effectiveness of the Group’s strategy and policies 
for ensuring that the Group operates a socially responsible and 
sustainable business that protects the young, protects the 
vulnerable, ensures the business is not associated with crime 
and disorder and that the Group’s reputational standing 
is maintained. The Committee’s Terms of Reference, which are 
reviewed annually, are available on the Company’s website, 
www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors.
The Social Responsibility Committee comprises of two or 
more independent non-executive directors. Appointments to 
the Committee are made by the Board on the recommendation 
of the Nomination Committee, which consults with the 
Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee.
The members of the Committee that served during the year were:
Appointment date Committee role
Sly Bailey
(1)
25 September 2015 Chairman
Christine Hodgson 3 July 2014 Member
Former members
John Kelly
(2)
3 July 2014 Chairman
(1) Sly Bailey was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
(2) John Kelly ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
Main responsibilities of the Committee
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 – Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the 
Group’s strategy and policies for ensuring that the Group 
operates a socially responsible and sustainable business;
 – Receive reports, monitor performance and review Group 
policies on regulatory compliance, including responsible 
gambling, underage gambling, anti-money laundering, 
bribery, health and safety, security, human rights and  
ethics; and
 – Monitor progress on the implementation of key social 
responsibility programmes.
Meetings attendance
The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a 
year. Details of the number of Committee meetings held during 
the year and the attendance of Committee members is shown 
below:
Members as at 
31 December 2015
Number of meetings
eligible to attend
Number of meetings
 attended
Sly Bailey
(1)
1 0
Christine Hodgson 3 3
Former members
John Kelly 3 3
(1) Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the activities of the Social 
Responsibility Committee during the year.
During the year, I was appointed as an additional member 
of the Committee and subsequently was appointed as 
Chairman of the Committee following the appointment 
of John Kelly as Chairman of the Board.
During the year, the Committee further reviewed the 
policies and procedures relating to responsible gambling, 
which included a visit to the Group’s operations in 
Gateshead. Further details on the Committee’s visit 
to Gateshead can be found on page 50.
During 2016, the Committee will focus further on 
responsible gambling and will also review and monitor 
the policies and processes in relation to ethics, supply 
chain and health and safety.
Sly Bailey
Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 COMMITTEE VISIT TO THE GATESHEAD OPERATIONS
In November 2015, the Committee and Jim Mullen, 
Chief Executive, visited our Gateshead Audit Centre, 
which was established in 1973 to support the growing  
Retail estate. During 2015, the headcount at Gateshead  
grew as the team expanded to incorporate our growing 
focus on responsible gambling.
During the visit, the Committee were given an overview  
and live demonstrations of the responsible gambling  
reports generated by the audit team, that included activity 
relating to exceptional business occurrences, debit card 
usage, potential anti-money laundering and the retail  
algorithm process. 
Commenting on the visit, Jim Mullen said “It was 
an extremely worthwhile day and gave the Committee a 
valuable insight into the activities of our Gateshead team 
who now use their skills and experience to help keep our 
customers gambling responsibly”.
Governance
Committee activities
The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included:
 – Reviewed the communications in relation to 
responsible gambling;
 – Considered the responsible gambling targets for awards 
made to directors and senior executives under the 
Performance Share Plan;
 – Reviewed the requirements for the Annual Assurance 
Statement that was required to be submitted to the GB 
Gambling Commission; and
 – Visited the operational team in Gateshead and reviewed 
the retail algorithm which was being used to track the 
behaviour of machine customers and compare them 
with historic known gamblers.
Corporate governance continued
50 ladbrokesplc.com “ 2016 will be a pivotal year for the 
business. The Remuneration Committee  
is committed to ensuring that remuneration 
arrangements at Ladbrokes continue to 
support its objectives.”
Dear shareholder
As the Chairman of the Ladbrokes Remuneration 
Committee, I am pleased to present the 2015 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which has been prepared in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules, 
section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Account and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). 
The Report is set out in two parts:
 – Our remuneration policy (Policy Report) which was 
approved by shareholders on 7 May 2014. For clarity 
we have updated the Policy Report to reflect 2016 
figures where relevant. There will be no vote on this 
section at the 2016 Annual General Meeting (AGM); and
 – Our Annual Report on Remuneration detailing how our 
policy was implemented in the year ending 31 December 
2015 and how it will be implemented in the year ending 
31 December 2016, which is subject to an advisory vote.
David Martin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Governance
Impact on remuneration of key events in 2015 
2015 has been a momentous year for Ladbrokes. In June,  
our newly appointed Chief Executive, Jim Mullen, announced  
a three-year strategic plan to build a stronger Ladbrokes.  
The proposed merger with Gala Coral fast-tracks progress to 
the scale proposed under the strategic plan and was approved 
by shareholders at the General Meeting on 24 November 2015.
Notwithstanding these significant corporate changes, the 
principles underpinning the Ladbrokes remuneration policy 
still remain applicable and are unchanged from last year. 
These remuneration principles are to: 
 – Be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation;
 – Support the achievement of organisational goals and be 
aligned with long-term business strategy;
 – Enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key 
individuals; and
 – Be positioned competitively against best market practice, 
while paying no more than necessary.
After the announcement of the new strategic plan and 
proposed merger, the Remuneration Committee reviewed 
the remuneration arrangements across the business to assess 
whether current arrangements continue to align with these 
principles. The review showed that the existing arrangements 
broadly continue to support Ladbrokes’ objectives; however 
changes were required to the 2015 bonus.
The new strategy requires significant up-front investment in 
Ladbrokes’ core businesses. Although these investments will 
build a materially stronger business in the medium/long term, 
these do impact profits in the short term. Therefore, to ensure 
that our employees are incentivised to implement our strategy, 
the 2015 bonus PBIT threshold, on-target and stretch numbers 
were changed from £95m, £110m and £120m to £80.4m, 
£90m and £101.25m respectively which takes into account 
the strategic investment made by Ladbrokes in the business 
in the second half of the year. Further details on resulting bonus 
payouts are provided later in this statement.
We have also granted a number of share and cash-based 
awards to key below-Board colleagues to aid retention over 
the critical merger period. These awards are likely to vest 
in 2016 and 2017. None of the executive directors have received 
an award linked to retention in relation to the merger. 
At the 2015 AGM, Ladbrokes received a 69.8% vote in favour 
of the 2014 annual report on remuneration. The Board notes 
the level of votes against the report primarily related to Richard 
Glynn’s termination arrangements. Richard Glynn’s termination 
arrangements were agreed at the time of his recruitment and 
were determined to be in line with UK damages principles. 
The Remuneration Committee understands that contracts 
of this type are no longer best practice and confirms the 
termination arrangements for current executive directors 
are in line with market practice and will be determined 
using payment in lieu of notice (PILON) principles. 
2015 performance 
In July 2015, Jim Mullen laid out his strategy and whilst still 
early days, customer metrics in H2 have been encouraging. 
Operating profit of £80.6 million for the year reflects the 
increased marketing spend in line with the new strategy and 
c.£50 million increase in gambling taxation.
For the 2015 annual bonus, up to 60% of the maximum bonus 
opportunity was dependent on stretching profit targets with the 
remainder dependent on individual objectives. For the Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer this included a number of 
financial and strategic measures which were primarily focused 
on the delivery of the new strategy for Ladbrokes and work on 
the proposed merger.
In 2015, the operating profit excluding High Rollers was 
£80.6m which is above the threshold requirement of £80.4m. 
Therefore, for achieving this level of profit, the Chief Executive 
received £27,316 which is 7% of his salary pro-rated for his 
tenure as Chief Executive in 2015. The Chief Executive also 
achieved his personal objectives to a satisfactory level therefore 
in total he received £97,891 which is 26% of his salary pro-rated 
for his tenure as Chief Executive in 2015. The Chief Financial 
Officer received £101,502 which is 25% of his salary. For the 
Chief Executive, a third of the earned bonus was deferred into 
shares for three years. As the bonus targets were reset for the 
new strategy on 1 July 2015, the Remuneration Committee has 
ensured that the bonus payouts reflect the performance 
outcome of the second half of the year. 
Further details on the 2015 bonus targets and resulting bonus 
outcomes can be found on page 64. 
The 2013 awards under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
were based 50% on three-year Earnings per Share (EPS) 
performance and 50% on three-year Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) to the end of 2015. Neither the EPS nor TSR threshold 
targets were met, therefore the 2013 PSP awards will lapse fully. 
The third and final performance test of the Ladbrokes Growth 
Plan (LGP), a one-off share plan, was measured at the end of 
June 2015. No additional shares were earned as the share price 
did not exceed the share price required during the performance 
measurement period. However, as per the rules of the plan, a 
third of shares earned from the first performance test at the end 
of June 2013 by the Chief Financial Officer and by the former 
Chief Executive vested in August 2015. 
Ladbrokes remuneration in 2016
A key event for Ladbrokes in 2016 is the outcome of the 
proposed merger with Gala Coral. The Committee intends 
to continue to operate its existing remuneration programmes 
until the proposed merger with Gala Coral, including a 2016 
PSP award.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
52 ladbrokesplc.com  – He will receive his 2015 annual bonus in cash which is equal 
to £101,502;
 – His 2015 PSP share award will vest at the normal vesting 
date subject to the extent which performance conditions have 
been satisfied. In recognition of his contribution to Ladbrokes, 
the Committee has disapplied any time pro-ration to his 2015 
PSP award and will not apply a two-year holding period; and
 – The temporary monthly allowance of £10,000 paid to Ian Bull 
from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015 was not taken into 
account when calculating his termination arrangements. 
As announced on 11 December 2015, Richard Snow, Director 
of Investor Relations became the acting Chief Financial Officer 
upon Ian Bull’s departure on 26 February 2016. He will not join 
the Board but will be invited to attend Board meetings. 
We have also had a number of changes to non-executive 
director membership of the Board. Peter Erskine stood down 
from the Board in December 2015, with John Kelly appointed 
Non-Executive Chairman. John Kelly’s annual fee for this role is 
£285,000. Upon John Kelly’s appointment, Christine Hodgson 
became the acting senior independent non-executive director 
and will receive a total annual fee of £70,000. Mark Pain, who 
joined the Board on 3 December 2015 will receive a total annual 
fee of £70,000 which takes into account his role as Audit 
Committee Chair.
2016 will be a pivotal year for the business. The Remuneration 
Committee is committed to ensuring that remuneration 
arrangements at Ladbrokes continue to support its objectives.  
The Remuneration Committee values all feedback from 
shareholders, and hopes to receive your support at the 
forthcoming AGM.
POLICY REPORT
The following sections set out the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (the Policy). The Policy was approved by shareholders 
at the 2014 AGM on 7 May 2014.
For avoidance of doubt, it is the Company’s policy to honour 
in full any pre-existing obligations that have been entered 
into prior to the effective date of this Policy. Therefore, the 
Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any 
remuneration payments and payments for loss of office 
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy, 
where the terms of these payments were agreed:
(i)  before the Policy came into effect; or
(ii)  at a time when the relevant individual was not a director 
of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration 
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the 
individual becoming a director of the Company.
If the merger is confirmed, the Remuneration Committee will 
review the existing remuneration policy prior to completion to 
determine whether any revisions are required to ensure the 
policy continues to be appropriate for the enlarged Group 
post-completion. Any revisions will be offered for shareholder 
approval at a General Meeting once this review has been 
completed. The pay structure for executive directors of 
the enlarged Group post-completion will reflect their roles 
and responsibilities and will reflect market norms for those 
executives who will remain with the enlarged Group longer term. 
Upon merger, Ladbrokes outstanding incentives will be treated 
in line with plan rules. It is anticipated that outstanding awards 
granted under the PSP will be rolled over into Ladbrokes 
Coral shares. 
Certain performance targets and measures attached to the 
2015 and 2016 PSP will require review and potential revision 
upon merger to reflect and incentivise the objectives of the 
enlarged Group. Shareholders will be consulted with regard to 
any proposed changes.
Other 
There have been a number of changes in Board membership 
in 2015. Jim Mullen became the new Chief Executive of 
Ladbrokes on 1 April 2015. His remuneration arrangements in 
2015 are in line with the approved policy and consist of a base 
salary of £500,000 p.a.; a bonus of up to 170% of base salary, 
one-third of which will be deferred for three years; a pension 
allowance of 22.5% of his base salary and benefits worth 
c.£15,000 which includes car allowance and private healthcare. 
In 2015, Jim Mullen received a share award equal to 200% 
of his base salary under the PSP. This award has stretching 
performance conditions attached to its vesting. Effective from 
1 March 2016, Jim Mullen’s base salary will be £525,000 p.a. 
This salary increase takes into account his performance over 
the year and his below-market positioning. We also intend 
to grant a PSP award in 2016 equal to 175% of his salary 
(at 1 January 2016, £500,000 p.a.) which is in line with the 
approved policy. All other arrangements remain the same 
and are in line with the approved policy.
Ian Bull will be leaving Ladbrokes before the end of February 
2016. His termination arrangements are in line with the key 
terms and conditions detailed in his service contract:
 – He will receive six months pay in lieu of notice which will be 
paid in six monthly instalments and is equivalent to salary, 
pension and benefits that would have been paid to him 
during this time. He received his first monthly instalment of 
£42,500 in November 2015. The remainder will be paid in 
the five months following his departure;
 – His termination agreement stated that his pay in lieu of notice 
will be reduced accordingly if he finds alternative employment. 
Ian Bull has found alternative employment at Parkdean 
Resorts therefore his remaining payments will be reduced 
accordingly. These amounts are yet to be determined and  
will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report;
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Governance
For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation 
to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted. 
Further details regarding the operation of the Policy can be found on pages 63 to 71 of this report.
Policy table
Fixed remuneration
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Salary
 – Core element of remuneration 
reflecting the size and scope of 
an individual’s responsibilities.
 – Salary levels are set at a 
level to attract and retain the 
talent necessary to deliver the 
business strategy. 
 – Salaries are typically reviewed annually 
by the Remuneration Committee with 
any change normally being effective 
from 1 March of each year. 
 – The Remuneration Committee typically 
takes into consideration a number 
of internal and external factors when 
setting salaries, including:
 – business and individual performance;
 – the individual’ s skills and experience;
 – affordability;
 – inflation;
 – market positioning; and
 – pay and conditions elsewhere 
in the Group.
 – The Remuneration Committee has 
the discretion to review salaries at any 
point as it considers appropriate.
 – Salary increases for executive 
directors will normally be in 
line with increases for the 
wider workforce. There is no 
maximum salary opportunity.
 – Higher increases may 
be awarded in individual 
circumstances, at the 
Remuneration Committee’s 
discretion, including, but not 
limited to:
 – a significant increase in 
scope and/or responsibility 
of the role; or
 – if a new executive director is 
appointed at a lower salary 
which is to be aligned with 
market over time based on 
performance.
 – Overall performance of the 
business and the individual 
are key considerations in 
setting salary levels.
Benefits
 – Fixed element of remuneration 
providing market competitive 
benefit to support the attraction 
and retention of talent.
 – Benefits to executive directors may 
include private healthcare (for the 
executive director and his family), 
critical illness, disability and life 
assurance, injury in service benefits, 
an allowance for tax advice and a cash 
allowance in lieu of a company car.
 – The Remuneration Committee keeps 
the benefits offered, the policies and 
levels under regular review.
 – The Remuneration Committee may 
also remove benefits that executive 
directors receive or introduce other 
benefits if it considers it is appropriate 
to do so.
 – Where executive directors are 
required to relocate or complete 
an international assignment, the 
Remuneration Committee may offer 
additional benefits, if considered 
appropriate, or vary benefits according 
to local practice.
 – Executive directors are also eligible 
to participate in the Company’s two 
all-employee share plans (the Share 
Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme) on the same 
basis as other eligible colleagues.
 – Whilst no maximum monetary 
value exists, benefits are 
set by taking into account 
a number of factors 
including market practice 
for comparable roles within 
appropriate pay comparators 
and taking into account 
individual circumstances, 
e.g. relocation.
 – Participation in the Share 
Incentive Plan and the 
Savings-Related Share 
Option Scheme is limited 
to the maximum award 
levels permitted by the 
relevant legislation.
 – None.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
54 ladbrokesplc.com Fixed remuneration continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Retirement benefits
 – Fixed element of remuneration 
to assist with retirement planning 
which supports the attraction 
and retention of talent. 
 – Executive directors can opt to join 
the Company’s defined contribution 
scheme or take a cash supplement 
in lieu. 
 – The Remuneration Committee keeps 
the cash supplement and/or employer 
defined contribution level under 
regular review.
 – The cash supplement is not included in 
calculating annual bonus or long-term 
incentive quantum.
 – In general, the levels of 
cash supplement and/or 
employer defined contribution 
provided are intended to be 
broadly market typical for 
the role. The Remuneration 
Committee reserves the right 
to make adjustments to these 
levels in the event of market 
movements.
 – Whilst there is no maximum 
pension level, the current level 
is 22.5% of base salary.
 – None.
Variable remuneration
Annual bonus
 – Incentivise performance on 
an annual basis against key 
financial metrics and demanding 
individual objectives.
 – Deferral into shares is intended 
to enhance shareholder 
alignment and reinforce 
retention.
 – Performance is measured over 
one year; bonus is payable after 
the year end.
 – Measures and targets are 
reviewed and determined by the 
Remuneration Committee annually. 
The Remuneration Committee 
reviews the performance against 
these targets after the year end to 
determine the level of bonus pay-out.
 – A portion of any bonus earned 
(currently one-third) is compulsorily 
deferred into an award of shares 
(or equivalents in nil-cost options 
or cash) under the deferred bonus 
plan (DBP). These shares are not 
subject to any further performance 
conditions, will not normally vest for 
a period of at least three years and 
are forfeitable if the participant leaves 
employment before the vesting date 
(unless the Remuneration Committee 
decides otherwise).
 – Participants may receive the value 
(in cash or shares) of dividends paid 
on shares that vest in respect of 
the period between the grant and 
satisfaction of a deferred bonus award.
 – In line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, malus provisions 
apply under which the Remuneration 
Committee may cancel or reduce 
vesting of unvested awards or impose 
further conditions on those awards in 
the event of a material misstatement 
of the Group’s financial results or 
gross misconduct.
 – The annual bonus is operated in 
accordance with the terms of the 
annual bonus plan and DBP rules 
which include the capacity for the 
Remuneration Committee to adjust 
or amend the terms of the awards.
 – 170% of base salary  
for the Chief Executive,  
130% of salary for other  
executive directors.
 – Performance is measured 
against a combination of 
financial measures (currently 
profit-based) and strategic 
and/or individual objectives. 
At least 60% of the bonus 
will be based on financial 
measures and the remainder 
on strategic and/or individual 
objectives. No bonus will be 
awarded if a base level of 
profit is not achieved in the 
bonus year.
 – Strategic and individual 
measures selected may 
vary each year depending 
on business context and 
strategy, and will be weighted 
accordingly to business 
priorities. These objectives 
are reviewed and approved 
by the Remuneration 
Committee at the start 
of the financial year.
 – Between 0% and 100% 
of the maximum award 
applies for achievement 
between base level of 
profit and a personal rating 
of 3 (which is considered 
to be good performance 
measured against the 
Company’s high standards) 
and stretch performance 
targets and a personal rating 
of 5 (which is considered to 
be truly exceptional).
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Governance
Variable remuneration continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
 – Promotes the long-term 
success of the business.
 – Incentivises executives (and the 
broader senior management 
team) to deliver performance 
over the long term. 
 – Helps retain executives.
 – Share based to provide 
greater alignment with 
shareholder interests. 
 – Awards will be structured in the 
form of conditional share awards 
(or equivalents in nil-cost options or 
cash) with vesting dependent on the 
achievement of stretching performance 
measures over at least three years.
 – For awards granted in 2015 onwards 
vested shares will be mandatorily held 
for an additional two years by executive 
directors.
 – Dividends (or equivalents) may accrue 
during the vesting period only on 
shares that vest.
 – In line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, malus provisions 
apply under which the Remuneration 
Committee may cancel or reduce 
vesting of unvested awards or impose 
further conditions on those awards in 
the event of a material misstatement 
of the Group’s financial results or gross 
misconduct.
 – The PSP is operated in accordance 
with the terms of the PSP rules 
which was approved by shareholders 
on 18 May 2007 and include the 
Remuneration Committee’s capacity 
to adjust or amend the terms of the 
awards.
 – The normal award levels as 
a percentage of base salary 
will be 175% for the Chief 
Executive and 150% for other 
executive directors. 
 – The Remuneration Committee 
will have the discretion to 
make higher awards in 
exceptional circumstances 
subject to the individual plan 
limit of 250% of base salary.
 – Awards vest based on 
performance against a 
combination of performance 
measures.
 – At least 50% of the award 
will be based on financial 
measures and a further 
portion of no more than 
50% will be based on 
TSR performance. Any 
balance would be linked to 
performance against specific 
strategic objectives.
 – For ‘threshold’ levels of 
performance up to 25% of 
the award vests, increasing 
on a straight line basis to 
100% of the award for 
maximum performance. 
 – In line with the rules of 
the PSP , the performance 
condition may be replaced 
or varied if an event occurs 
or circumstances arise, 
e.g. a significant regulatory 
change, which causes the 
Committee, acting fairly and 
reasonably, to determine that 
a substituted or amended 
performance condition 
would be appropriate (taking 
into account the interests 
of the shareholders of the 
Company) provided that 
the amended performance 
condition would continue to 
achieve its original purpose.
Notes to the policy table
There have been no changes to the policy table from the policy 
table presented in the 2014 Director’s Remuneration Report.
Performance measures – annual bonus
The annual bonus performance measures are chosen to 
provide an appropriate balance between incentivising executive 
directors to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver 
specific strategic, operational and individual goals. This balance 
allows the Remuneration Committee to reward performance 
effectively against the key elements of our strategy.
The precise bonus targets are set by the Remuneration 
Committee each year to ensure that executive directors are 
appropriately focused on the key objectives for the next 12 
months. In doing so, the Remuneration Committee intends 
to take into account a number of internal and external 
reference points, including the Company’s business plan.
Performance measures – PSP
The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term 
sustainable returns to shareholders. The Remuneration 
Committee strives to achieve this by aligning the performance 
measures under the PSP with the long-term strategy and 
priorities of the Company and considers that strong 
performance under these metrics should result in sustainable 
long-term growth.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a combination 
of financial and strategic measures and a measure of value 
delivered to shareholders is most appropriate when measuring 
long-term sustainable performance at Ladbrokes. The use of a 
scorecard of measures recognises and rewards performance 
against a wide range of relevant measures and helps ensure 
awards are less ‘all or nothing’, and therefore more motivational.
Additional disclosure – legacy arrangements LGP
The LGP was approved by shareholders on 14 May 2010. 
Full details of the LGP were set out in the circular sent to 
shareholders seeking approval for the LGP at the time of 
implementation. As a legacy arrangement which has now 
expired, the LGP is not included within the policy table above 
or in the rest of this policy report. However, we have chosen to 
voluntarily disclose summary details of the LGP here for ease 
of reference. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
56 ladbrokesplc.com  – Purpose and link to strategy – The LGP was a one-off 
long-term incentive plan which was designed to incentivise 
over 140 key senior executives to support revitalisation of 
the business and create significant, sustainable long-term 
shareholder value. The plan rewarded value creation of 
between £400m to £1.3bn for shareholders.
 – Operation – One-off awards were made under this plan  
in 2010 to the then Chief Executive and in 2011 to other 
participants. No further awards will be made under the plan 
as it ended in June 2015. The performance period for all 
awards is five years, which began in June 2010 and ended in 
June 2015. A portion of the award was eligible for vesting at 
the end of year three of the performance period (June 2013). 
In 2013, 40.7% of the maximum award did vest, as a share 
price of 220.7 pence was maintained for a period of 30 
consecutive dealing days. No further vesting occurred at 
the end of year four (June 2014) or at the end of year five 
(June 2015). Participants may receive the value of dividends 
paid on any vested shares.
 – Maximum opportunity – Executive directors were required 
to invest up to 150% of base salary in shares and could 
receive up to a four times matching award in respect of that 
investment. The matching award normally only vested to 
the extent this investment is retained. In the case of the then 
Chief Executive, he was required to invest in c.1 million 
Ladbrokes shares and was eligible to receive a four times 
matching award.
 – Performance measures – Awards were subject to share 
price performance conditions. Any share price target must be 
attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days. 
25% of the award would have vested if a share price of £2.00 
was achieved. 100% of the award would have vested if a 
share price of £2.97 was achieved. Vesting was on a straight 
line basis between the minimum and maximum share price 
targets, i.e. between £2.00 and £2.97. A share price of  
220.7 pence was maintained at the end of year three 
therefore 40.7% of the maximum award vested.
The Remuneration Committee had the authority to amend the 
targets if it is necessary to take account of exceptional factors 
including, for example, corporate events or exceptional 
market or industry factors which would otherwise render 
the targets inappropriate.
Timeframe of remuneration arrangements
The table below shows the timeframe of executive directors’ remuneration arrangements.
Element of remuneration 2016 (Y) Y+1 Y+2 Y+3 Y+4 Y+5
Salary
100% paid
Benefits including 
retirement benefits
Annual bonus
Performance  
period
2/3 paid in cash
1/3 deferred as shares for three-years and subject to malus
PSP
Performance period 100% subject to two-year holding period Award exercisable
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company
The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed to be aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that 
underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Although there are differences in pay between the executive directors and the wider colleague population, all reward arrangements 
are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below:
Remuneration objectives Arrangement(s) used for wider Group
Be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation. – Key personnel participate in PSP with the same performance metrics as 
for executive directors.
 – Two all-employee share incentive schemes are in operation (the Share 
Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme) to 
encourage share ownership.
 – Key Group financial measures under colleague bonus arrangements 
are aligned with those for executive directors to ensure consistency 
across the organisation and delivery of strategic goals. Colleagues also 
have relevant (and therefore motivational) team and individual targets to 
focus the team on key deliverables in their area of business.
 – Use of survey data to ensure all elements of remuneration are aligned 
with market as appropriate.
Support the achievement of organisational goals and be aligned  
with long-term business strategy.
Enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key individuals.
Be positioned competitively against market practice, while paying  
no more than necessary.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Chairman and non-executive directors
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Non-Executive Chairman and non-executive directors (NEDs) fees 
 – Sole element of remuneration, 
paid for fulfilling the relevant role.
 – The Non-Executive Chairman receives 
an all-inclusive fee for the role.
 – The remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Chairman is set by the Remuneration 
Committee. The Non-Executive 
Chairman receives a basic annual fee.
 – NEDs receive a basic annual fee in 
respect of their Board duties. Further 
fees are paid to NEDs in respect of 
chairmanship and membership of 
certain Board committees.
 – Fees are normally based on the 
level of fees paid to Chairmen and 
NEDs serving on boards of similar 
companies, the time commitment 
required of the role and the duties 
involved and take into consideration 
the requirement to attract and retain 
the quality of individuals required by 
the Company.
 – Fees are normally reviewed at least 
once annually.
 – The Board is responsible for 
determining fees for other NEDs, 
although the NEDs are not involved in 
discussions about their own fees.
 – There are currently no clawback 
provisions in place to enable recovery 
of sums paid.
 – Fees are normally paid in cash, 
although the Company retains the right 
to settle all/part of the fees as shares of 
equivalent value.
 – Whilst there is no maximum 
individual fee level, fees 
are set at a level which is 
considered appropriate to 
attract and retain the calibre 
of individual required by the 
Company, but the Company 
avoids paying more than 
necessary for this purpose. 
The Board may determine 
fee increases at any point as 
it considers appropriate in 
line with market movements 
and to take into account the 
time commitment and duties 
involved.
 – Fees are paid for the following 
roles/duties:
 – Non-Executive Chairman;
 – senior independent  
non-executive director;
 – other NEDs;
 – supplementary fee 
for chair of the Audit 
or Remuneration 
Committee*; and 
 – supplementary fee for 
membership of the Audit 
and/or Remuneration 
Committees.*
 – The Chairman and NEDs 
will not be eligible for annual 
bonus, share incentives and 
pensions.
 – Reasonable expenses, e.g. 
travel, accommodation and 
subsistence associated with 
Chairman and NEDs’ duties 
will be reimbursed, including 
any tax due on the benefits.
*  Not paid to Chairman  
or senior non-executive 
independent director
 – None.
Recruitment policy
Principles and approach
In determining remuneration arrangements for new 
appointments to the Board (including internal promotions), 
the Remuneration Committee applies the following principles:
 – The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious 
that any arrangements should be in the best interests of 
Ladbrokes and our shareholders, without paying more 
than is necessary;
 – The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all 
relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, the 
nature of the role, local market practice, the individual’s 
current remuneration package, Ladbrokes’ remuneration 
policy, internal relativities and existing arrangements for 
other executive directors;
 – Salaries will reflect the skills and experience of the individual, 
and may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to 
reflect performance in the role. The Committee also retains 
the right to determine that in the first year of appointment any 
annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it 
may determine; and
 – Typically, the remuneration package for a new appointment 
will be based on (or be transitioned onto) the same elements 
of the remuneration package as the other executive directors, 
in line with the policy table presented above.
It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the 
variable pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy 
table above. However, at recruitment, the Committee would 
retain the discretion to flex the balance between annual and 
long-term incentives and the measures used to assess 
performance for these elements, with the intention that 
a significant portion would be delivered in shares.
58 ladbrokesplc.com At recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional 
circumstances, be delivered via alternative structures, again 
with the intention that a significant portion would be share-
based, but in all circumstances subject to the overriding 
cap of 420% of salary.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate 
remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet 
the individual circumstances when an interim executive director 
is required to fill a role on a short-term basis or if exceptional 
circumstances require that the Chairman or a non-executive 
director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis.
Buy-outs
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee 
may make compensatory payments and/or awards for any 
remuneration arrangements subject to forfeiture on leaving 
a previous employer. 
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of 
any terms attached to the forfeited arrangements. Awards will 
take such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking 
into account all relevant factors such as the nature of the award, 
any performance conditions attached to those awards, the 
likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion 
of vesting/performance period remaining. The Committee’s 
intention is that the value awarded would be equivalent to the 
value forfeited.
Recruitment of the Chairman and non-executive directors
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or non-
executive director, remuneration arrangements will normally 
be in line with those detailed in the relevant table on page 70.
Disclosure
The remuneration structure of any new director will be 
disclosed in a timely manner and, as far as possible, in the 
relevant RNS notification at the time of appointment. In the next 
remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee will explain 
to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements.
Executive director service contracts
The key employment terms and conditions of the current Chief Executive, as stipulated in his service contract, are set out below. 
Notice Period (months) Termination payment Treatment of remuneration
Company policy
No fixed term contracts
Six months by executive and 12 months 
by Company.
In a recruitment scenario, an executive 
director may initially be hired on a 
contract requiring the Company to 
provide 24 months’ notice which then 
reduces, pro-rata over the course of the 
first year of the contract, to requiring 12 
months’ notice to terminate the contract.
May terminate employment by 
making a PILON equivalent to 
the value of base salary and 
benefits (including pension 
allowance) in respect of the 
notice period.
Participation in all incentive 
plans, including the annual 
bonus and the PSP , is  
non-contractual.
Outstanding awards will be 
treated in accordance with 
the relevant plan rules.
Jim Mullen
Effective date of contract  
is 1 April 2015
Six months by executive and nine months 
by Company.
In line with Company policy.
Also contains additional 
specific provisions requiring  
a reduction in PILON in the 
event he finds alternative 
employment during the 
12-month notice period.
In line with Company policy.
For ease of reference, we have included the key terms and conditions for Richard Glynn and Ian Bull 
Richard Glynn 
Effective date of contract was  
22 April 2010
Contract predates current policy
12 months by both sides. Does not contain PILON clause.
His termination payment was 
calculated on a damages 
basis and took into account 
contractual obligations and the 
circumstances of his departure.
In line with Company policy.
Ian Bull
Effective date of contract  
was 4 July 2011
In line with Company policy. In line with Company policy.
Also contains additional 
specific provisions requiring  
a reduction in PILON in the 
event he finds alternative 
employment during the 
12 months’ notice period.
In line with Company policy.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Policy on payment for loss of office
The Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for an  
executive director:
 – The Remuneration Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations: (a) being consistent with the Policy set out in this 
report; or (b) if they are inconsistent having been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with 
relevant legislation;
 – The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules. The following table summarises 
the leaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards;
 – Other payments which may be made as a result of loss of office include legal fees within an agreed maximum limit, 
outplacement counselling within an agreed maximum limit, payment for any outstanding accrued holiday and any other 
payments required by statute; and 
 – The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that there should be no reward for failure. When exercising any discretion 
under the plans referred to below, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the individual’s departure and 
performance in the role.
Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for any other leaver
Annual  
Bonus Plan
 – Ill health and disability.
 – Death.
 – Redundancy.
 – Any other scenario in which the 
Remuneration Committee determines 
good leaver treatment is justified.
Participant must have a minimum of nine 
months’ full service in the relevant year a 
cash bonus will be paid. This amount will 
normally be subject to the achievement 
of the financial and individual objectives 
set at the beginning of the plan year. 
Any payment will be following the end of 
the relevant financial year and will normally 
be pro-rated for time served during the 
year, unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines otherwise.
Any amounts which would have ordinarily 
been deferred into the deferred bonus plan 
may be paid in cash at the same time.
The Remuneration Committee, however, 
has the ability to exercise its discretion to 
pay a bonus as it considers appropriate.
No bonus.
Deferred  
Bonus Plan 
 – Ill health and disability.
 – Death.
 – Redundancy.
 – Any other scenario in which the 
Remuneration Committee determines 
good leaver treatment is justified.
Awards will vest on cessation 
of employment.
Unvested awards lapse 
in full if cessation of 
employment occurs prior 
to the normal vesting date.
Performance  
Share Plan
 – Injury, ill-health or disability.
 – Death.
 – Redundancy.
 – Retirement by agreement with the 
employing company.
 – Transfer of whole or part of the business 
by which the participant is employed 
outside the Group.
 – Any other scenario in which the 
Remuneration Committee determines 
good leaver treatment is justified (other 
than summary dismissal).
Awards will vest at the normal vesting 
date, unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines that awards should vest early.
In either case, awards will vest to the 
extent that performance conditions have 
been satisfied and on a time apportioned 
basis, unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines otherwise.
Unvested awards lapse 
in full if cessation of 
employment occurs during 
the performance period.
All-employee  
share plans
 – Leaver treatment under these plans will be in accordance with HMRC rules.
60 ladbrokesplc.com Corporate events affecting discretionary share plans
Ladbrokes’ discretionary share plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as approved by shareholders 
and amended from time to time in accordance with these rules. In particular, the plan rules provide for adjustments in certain 
circumstances. For example, awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend, 
reorganisation or similar event.
In the event of a change in control or winding up of the Company, existing share awards under these plans will be treated 
as follows:
Plan Treatment in an event of a change of control
Deferred  
Bonus Plan 
Vest in full on the date on which the change in control occurs.
Performance 
Share Plan
Vest in line with the plan rules to the extent the Remuneration Committee determines the performance conditions have 
been satisfied and on a time-apportioned basis, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion to determine otherwise.
Awards under the share plans may vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up of the Company. 
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment
The non-executive directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties 
and responsibilities. They do not have service contracts with either the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below:
Provision Policy
Period – After the initial term, non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
 – Whilst appointed for a three-year term, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all  
non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination – The appointment of a Chairman or a non-executive director is terminable without notice by either the Company 
or the director.
 – Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to any compensation upon leaving office.
Availability of documentation
All executive directors’ service contracts and the letters of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Company’s 2016 Annual General Meeting 
on 5 May 2016 from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
Illustration of our forward-looking remuneration policy
In support of the remuneration philosophy, Ladbrokes’ remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant 
proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the 
creation of sustainable shareholder value. 
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes 
to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The following charts provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for executive directors under three assumed 
performance scenarios. Details relating to Ian Bull’s arrangements which he has until he leaves the Company before the 
end of February 2016 have been included to illustrate the remuneration policy for executive directors other than for the 
Chief Executive. 
In line with the regulations, the illustrations show the potential remuneration levels under Ladbrokes’ forward-looking remuneration 
policy. These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Maximum 
performance
On-target 
performance 
Minimum 
performance  
Chief Executive
£2,424
£656 £656
£893
£875
£656
£656
£393
£219
£1,268
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
£’000s
  PSP  Fixed pay  Annual Bonus
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
£1,623
£503 £503
£520
£600
£503
£503
£229
£150
£882
0
200
800
600
400
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
£’000s
  PSP  Fixed pay  Annual Bonus
Maximum 
performance
On-target 
performance 
Minimum 
performance  
% %
Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum
Fixed pay 100% 52% 27% Fixed pay 100% 57% 31%
Annual bonus 0% 31% 37% Annual bonus 0% 26% 32%
PSP 0% 17% 36% PSP 0% 17% 37%
Total 100% 100% 100% Total 100% 100% 100%
Plan Assumptions used
Fixed pay
All performance 
scenarios
 – Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits (cash allowance in lieu of pension)
 – Base salary – salary effective as at 1 March 2016 
 – Benefits – estimated to be received by each executive director in 2016 (based on 2015 value)
 – Pensions – estimated to be received by each executive director in 2016 (based on 2016 salary)
Variable pay
Minimum 
performance
 – No pay-out under the annual bonus
 – No vesting under the PSP
On-target 
performance 
(see note)
 – 44% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus (cash and deferred elements)
 – 25% vesting under the PSP
Maximum 
performance 
(see note)
 – 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus (cash and deferred elements)
 – 100% vesting under the PSP
Note: PSP awards have been shown at face value (normal PSP opportunity applied to salary at 1 January 2016), with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumption. 
All-employee share plans have been excluded. The Chief Financial Officer chart is based on Ian Bull’s package as the most recent Chief Financial Officer. The scenario chart for the 
Chief Financial Officer does not include the 2015 temporary monthly allowance of £10,000 paid to Ian Bull from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of colleagues throughout the Group when determining 
remuneration arrangements for executive directors. Information relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided in regular 
updates to the Remuneration Committee. This takes the form of a comparison of reward elements across all main workforce groups, 
updates on total reward communications and details of business wide reviews such as annual bonus awards and salary increases.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee pays specific attention to the general level of salary increases and bonus outcomes 
within the wider population.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not directly consult with our colleagues as part of the process of determining executive pay, 
the Committee does receive feedback from colleague surveys and takes this into account when reviewing executive pay. In addition, 
a significant number of our colleagues are shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
62 ladbrokesplc.com Consideration of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration 
strategy, and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to our remuneration policy. 
The Remuneration Committee also considers shareholder feedback received in relation to an AGM at its next meeting following 
the AGM. 
Minor amendments to policy
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to directors,  
to aid in its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval for a revised version of this policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Audited information
The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 67 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration
The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 
December 2015, with prior year figures also shown. 
All figures shown in £’000
Salary and fees
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Cash allowance 
in lieu of pension
(c)
Annual bonus
(d)
Long-term 
incentives
(e)
Other 
(f) Total
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Current executive directors
Jim Mullen
(g)
 375 – 10 – 84 – 98 – – – – – 567 –
Ian Bull 400 400 13 13 110 90 102 – – – 90 – 715 503
Former executive directors
Richard Glynn
(h)
145 580 6 23 33 131 – – – – – – 183 734
Chairman and non-executive directors
(i)
Peter Erskine 232 250 – – – – – – – – 30 – 262 250
John Kelly 77 60 – – – – – – – – 9 – 86 60
Christine Hodgson 52 50 – – – – – – – – – – 52 50
Sly Bailey 50 50 – – – – – – – – – – 50 50
David Martin 60 60 – – – – – – – – – – 60 60
Richard Moross 53 60 – – – – – – – – – – 53 60
Darren Shapland 44 60 – – – – – – – – – – 44 60
Mark Pain 6 – – – – – – – – – – – 6 –
Methodology
(a) Salary and fees – this represents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year. No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive director’s services  
(2014: nil).
(b) Benefits – this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year. Executive director benefits include private healthcare (for the executive and his family), 
and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car. 
(c) Cash allowance in lieu of pension – executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 22.5% of salary. In 2015, Ian Bull received an overpayment 
of £2,250 which will be offset accordingly against his termination payments.
(d) Annual bonus – this reflects the nil bonus awarded in respect of the performance year for 2014. Bonuses of 26% and 25% of salary were awarded to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer respectively for the 2015 performance year. For the Chief Executive, one third of his bonus, equivalent to £32,630, was deferred into shares for three years. As part of the Chief 
Financial Officer’s termination agreement, his entire bonus for the performance year for 2015 was paid in cash. Further details are provided on page 64.
  Under Richard Glynn’s termination arrangements, he was entitled to receive a bonus as if he had been in service for 2015. This table does not include this payment, further details can 
be found on page 66.
(e)   Long-term incentives – this figure represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year. 
  PSP: The 2014 and 2015 figures reflect that no shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 awards under the PSP for Richard Glynn and Ian Bull. Jim Mullen joined Ladbrokes in November 2013 
therefore did not receive an award under the 2013 PSP. Further details in respect of the achievement of performance conditions are provided on page 64.
  LGP: The 2014 and 2015 figures reflect that there was no additional vesting under the second and third performance tests in June 2014 and June 2015. Further details in respect of the 
achievement of performance conditions are provided on page 65. 
(f) Other – Ian Bull was paid a temporary monthly allowance of £10,000 between 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015. Peter Erskine and John Kelly received an expense payment of 
£30,283 and £8,690 representing the reimbursement of the costs of holidays which both had to cancel due to corporate activity associated with the proposed merger with Gala Coral. 
(g) Remuneration for Jim Mullen covers only his period since his appointment as Chief Executive. Jim Mullen was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2015 on a salary of £500,000 p.a.  
He was previously the Managing Director of Ladbrokes Digital. His salary, bonus, benefits and pensions for 2015 have been pro-rated to reflect the period from 1 April 2015 to  
31 December 2015. 
(h) This table does not include payments relating to Richard Glynn’s loss of office which can be found on page 66. 
(i) Peter Erskine’s Chairman fee was £250,000 p.a. which he received until 3 December 2015. John Kelly’s Chairman fee is £285,000 p.a. which he received from his appointment on  
3 December 2015. The senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee received a total fee of £70,000 p.a. from 3 December 2015 onwards; previously 
these roles received £60,000 p.a. Other non-executive directors receive a basic fee of £43,000 p.a. Additional fees are payable for the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at  
a rate of £10,000 p.a. and for membership of the Audit and/or Remuneration Committee at a rate of £7,000 per annum. David Martin’s fee was paid to Arriva plc by mutual agreement up to  
31 December 2015. Peter Erskine retired on 3 December 2015 and Darren Shapland retired on 24 September 2015. John Kelly became the Chairman, Christine Hodgson became the acting 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Mark Pain joined the Board on 3 December 2015 as the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Fees paid to each non-executive director reflect 
time spent on the Board in 2015 and responsibilities. The fees for Richard Moross in 2014 were reported in error as £50,000 and have now been restated as £60,000. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Governance
Performance Share Plan
The PSP value shown in the single figure table relates to the 2013 
award, for which the performance period was 1 January 2013 to 
31 December 2015.
The performance conditions for this award are set out below:
50% of the award – three-year relative TSR performance against 
a peer group of sectoral peer companies.
The peer group for the 2013 award is set out below:
888 Holdings Paddy Power
Boyd Gaming Punch Taverns
Bwin PartyGaming Rank Group
Enterprise Inns Whitbread
Mitchells & Butlers William Hill 
OPAP
The original comparator group consisted of 14 comparators, however Sportingbet and GTech 
were removed for the entire performance period as they were acquired in March 2013 and 
April 2015 respectively.
 
Median 
 
Upper quartile 
0
25
100
Relative TSR growth
% vesting  
Three-year TSR growth vs. sectoral peer growth
50% of the award – three-year EPS growth
 
EPS growth
6% p.a. 
 
10% p.a. 
0
25
100
% vesting  
Three-year EPS growth
Actual 
performance
Vesting as 
% of element
Relative TSR 12 out of 12 companies 0%
EPS growth -35% per annum 0%
Total vesting 0% of maximum
There will be nil vesting of the PSP awards made in 2013.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Additional disclosures in respect 
of the single figure table
Annual bonus
The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to 
executive directors in respect of 2015:
2015 
annual bonus
As % of 
2015 salary
Jim Mullen £97,891 26%
Ian Bull £101,502 25%
60% of the 2015 annual bonus was based on PBIT for the 
year (excluding profit from High Rollers and exceptional items). 
40% of the 2015 annual bonus was based on individual 
objectives, which are primarily financial in nature. Furthermore, 
the individual objectives element of the bonus remains subject 
to a profit underpin. 
In June 2015, the Chief Executive announced a new three-year 
strategy which requires significant up-front investment. Although 
these investments will build a materially stronger business in the 
medium/long term, these do impact the PBIT in the short term. 
Therefore, to ensure that our executive directors and other 
employees are incentivised to implement our strategy, the 2015 
bonus PBIT threshold, on-target and stretch numbers were 
changed from £95m, £110m and £120m to £80.4m, £90m and 
£101.25m respectively which takes into account the strategic 
investment made by Ladbrokes in the business in the second half 
of the year. At threshold PBIT up to 10% of this element of bonus 
can vest, at on-target PBIT up to 40% of this element can vest, 
and at stretch PBIT 100% of this element can vest. Please note 
this is dependent on achieving at least a personal performance 
rating of 3 or above. 
In 2015, operating profit excluding High Rollers was £80.6m which 
is in-between the threshold requirement of £80.4m and target of 
£90m. Therefore for the profit element the Chief Executive 
received £27 ,316 which is 7% of his salary pro-rated for his tenure 
as Chief Executive in 2015. The Chief Financial Officer received 
£20,880 which is 5% of his salary. 
The Chief Executive was also awarded £70,575 which 
is equivalent to 19% of base salary under individual objectives. 
This is because he received a personal performance rating of 
4 out of 5.
This rating takes into account the development and 
implementation of the new long-term strategy and positive 
progress made against this strategy in 2015.
The Chief Financial Officer was also awarded £80,622 which 
is equivalent to 20% of base salary under individual objectives. 
This is because he received a personal performance rating of 
5 out of 5.
This rating takes into account support with the potential merger 
and positive progress of the new long-term strategy in 2015. 
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were able to 
receive payment under the individual objectives as the profit 
underpin of £80.4m was met. The Committee has ensured that 
the bonus payouts reflect the performance outcome of the 
second half of the year. Please note that executive directors only 
receive full vesting under the individual objectives element of the 
annual bonus if a personal performance rating of 5 is received, 
and stretch PBIT targets are achieved.
64 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes’ Growth Plan
The LGP was a one-off long-term incentive plan where awards 
were made under this plan in 2010 to the then Chief Executive 
and in 2011 to other participants. The performance period for all 
awards was five years which began in June 2010 and ended in 
June 2015. A portion of the award was eligible for vesting after 
three years in 2013 (first performance test) with a further portion 
eligible for vesting at the end of year four (June 2014, second 
performance test) and year five (June 2015, third performance 
test) if performance targets had not been fully met at previous 
performance tests. The performance conditions for this award 
are set out below: 
Share price maintained for a period of  
30 consecutive dealing days
Percentage of the 
award vesting
200 pence 25%
Between 200 pence and 297 pence Pro rata
297 pence 100%
Straight line vesting operates between these points.
The first performance test on 29 June 2013 resulted in 40.7% 
vesting of the maximum opportunity as a share price of 220.7 
pence was maintained for a period of 30 consecutive dealing 
days. The second performance test on 29 June 2014 resulted 
in no additional vesting as a share price of above 220.7 pence 
was not maintained for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days 
between 29 June 2013 and 29 June 2014. Therefore, at the 
third performance test on 30 June 2015, a share price of 
above 220.7 pence had to be maintained for a period of 30 
consecutive days between 30 June 2014 and 29 June 2015, 
for any additional vesting to occur. 
Performance out-turn
A share price above 220.7 pence was not maintained at any 
point between 30 June 2014 and 29 June 2015, therefore 
there was no vesting under the third performance test in 2015. 
Scheme interests awarded during the 
financial year
Performance Share Plan awards
For 2015, PSP awards are granted over Ladbrokes shares with 
the number of shares under award determined by reference to 
a percentage of base salary.
Performance for these awards is measured over the three 
financial years from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017. 
They are subject to the following performance conditions.
25% of the award will be based on TSR percentage 
outperformance of six sector peers 
TSR % outperformance of  
the six sector comparators
Percentage of the 
award vesting
Less than median 0%
Median 25%
Median + 10% p.a. 100%
Straight line vesting operates between these points. 
The peer group for the 2015 award is set out below: 
888 holdings Paddy Power 
Betfair Sportech
Bwin Partygaming William Hill
If the peer group for 2015 was to fall below five companies,  
i.e. in the event of takeovers, a peer will be selected from 
a ‘reserve list’ of companies (which originally included for 2015, 
GTech, International Game Technology, Betsson, Rank Group 
and Playtech). This would ensure that the peer group consists 
of a minimum of five companies. The replacement company will 
be effective for the entire performance period. In February 2016, 
Bwin Partygaming was acquired by GVC Holdings and Betfair 
and Paddy Power merged to form Paddy Power Betfair. The 
Committee has decided to replace Bwin Partygaming with GVC 
Holdings over the entire performance period. The Committee 
has also decided that Paddy Power and Betfair both remain in 
the peer group with the TSR of both ‘companies’ adjusted in 
line with changes to Paddy Power Betfair’s share price from 
1 February 2016. Please note that GTech acquired International 
Game Technology in April 2015 with the new entity renamed 
International Game Technology. Therefore both companies 
have been removed from the reserve list.
25% of the award will be based on three-year cumulative 
EPS performance
EPS performance
Percentage of the 
award vesting
Less than 29.0 pence 0%
29.0 pence 25%
37.0 pence 100%
Straight line vesting operates between cumulative EPS 
performance of 29.0 pence and 37.0 pence. Cumulative EPS 
performance excludes exceptional items and High Rollers. 
25% of the award will be based on three-year Free Cash 
Flow (FCF) performance
FCF performance
Percentage of the 
award vesting
Less than £273.9m 0%
£273.9m 25%
£345.3m 100%
Straight line vesting operates between FCF performance of 
£273.9m and £345.3m. 
FCF for the purposes of the Plan is defined as the new cash 
flow from operating activities plus dividends received from joint 
ventures and associates, less income taxes paid, net capital 
expenditure and net interest payments (including bond 
coupons). FCF excludes distribution of dividends, repayment of 
debt and merger and acquisition activity. 
25% of the award will be based on performance against 
responsible gambling measures 
The measures in relation to this element of the award will be 
determined and independently measured and assessed by  
the Social Responsibility Committee through a set of KPIs. 
These KPIs will reflect the GB Gambling Commission’s 
objectives and regulatory and voluntary sector-level changes 
and our own initiatives. 
These KPIs will be assessed over the three-year performance 
period using three annual scorecards and the cumulative 
impact over the same period. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The Remuneration Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee intend to disclose targets and the performance level at the 
end of the performance period due to commercial sensitivity. As with all measures under the 2015 PSP, threshold performance will 
result in 25% of this element of the PSP vesting. 
The following table provides details of the awards made under the PSP in 2015. 
Type of award
Number
of shares
Face value
(£)
Face value
(% of salary)
Threshold vesting
(% of face value)
Maximum vesting
(% of face value)
End of
performance
period
Jim Mullen
Performance
 shares
910,580 £999,999 200%
25% 100%
31 December
 2017 Ian Bull 546,348 £599,999 150%
Face value has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to the date of grant (12 May 2015) of 109.82 pence. 
Vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions as detailed on page 65. 
Share Incentive Plan awards
Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible 
colleagues. During 2015, Ian Bull participated in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP). During 2015 under the SIP, Ian Bull purchased 
811 shares and 811 bonus shares were awarded to him, along with 130 shares in respect of dividends paid by the Company 
on 14 May 2015 and 12 November 2015. 
Payments to past directors
There were no payments to past directors in 2015. 
Payments for loss of office
Richard Glynn left Ladbrokes on 31 March 2015. His service contract, effective from 22 April 2010, provides for a 12-month notice 
period and was structured that any termination payments had to be determined in line with UK damages principles. He received 
the following payments upon his departure:
 – £580,000 and £131,000 for 12 months salary and pension contribution; 
 – £34,000 for 12 months car allowance and private medical insurance;
 – £6,692 in lieu of accrued untaken holiday as at his leaving date;
 – £100,000 for failure to grant a Performance Share Award in March 2015; and  
 – £1,000 for value of expenses in relation to his laptop and mobile phone for 12 months.
He also received life assurance cover (equal to four times salary) for 12 months and a contribution of £10,000 towards his legal 
costs and £40,000 (excluding VAT) for outplacement counselling services. 
Richard Glynn was also allowed to receive a bonus in 2015 as if he had been in service for 2015, and on the basis that his personal 
performance would have been in line with the Remuneration Committee’s ratings for the financial year 2013 and 2014 and the 
financial performance conditions would be applied on the same basis as for other executive directors. Therefore he is entitled 
to £31,687 relating to the profit element of the bonus and £81,867 based on his personal performance rating of 4 (out of 5). 
This equates to £113,554.
His existing unvested share awards held under Ladbrokes’ executive share plans on his departure date were treated upon the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee in accordance with good leaver provisions:
 – 87,173 shares held under the Deferred Bonus Plan for performance in 2012 with a normal vesting date of February 2016 
vested in May 2015;
 – 2013 and 2014 PSP awards of 446,271 and 759,958 shares respectively will vest at the end of the performance period 
(February 2016 and February 2017 respectively), subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and time pro-rating in 
accordance with the plan rules; and
 – The final one third of the shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan of 547,522 shares, vested at the end of the normal 
vesting date of August 2015. Richard Glynn would have been also entitled to any additional shares if there was any improvement 
on share price by the third performance test in June 2015, i.e. a share price of above 220.7p is maintained for 30 consecutive 
days by 29 June 2015. However, there was no further improvement therefore no additional shares vested under this plan.
Richard Glynn was also entitled to continue to hold nil-cost options granted to him in April 2010 under 2010 Share Option Plan 
which vested in April 2013. These options would continue to be exercisable until April 2020 and were exercised in 2015. 
66 ladbrokesplc.com Under the rules of the all-employee Share Incentive Plan and the relevant tax legislation, in 2015 Richard Glynn forfeited 
the 560 ‘bonus shares’ (termed free shares under tax legislation) that he had held for less than one year; and retained 
the remaining 2,079 ‘bonus shares’ which he had held for more than one year. He also retained the 860 ‘salary shares’ 
(termed partnership shares under the legislation) and 114 ‘dividend shares’ which he had held for more than one year. 
Ian Bull will leave Ladbrokes before the end of February 2016. As part of his settlement agreement, he received a payment of 
£42,500 in November 2015 which is the first monthly instalment of his PILON. The remaining five instalments will be paid following 
his departure in February 2016 and will be reduced accordingly for his new employment at Parkdean Resorts.
Statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interests
Directors’ shareholdings and share ownership guidelines
The Company’s shareholding guidelines require executive directors to build up over time a personal shareholding equivalent in 
value to at least one year’s base salary. Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Company’s incentive 
plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met. 
Shares which the executive directors hold outright and/or vested shares under the Company’s share plans count towards the 
requirement. Unvested share awards only count towards the requirement if vesting is not subject to any further performance 
conditions or other conditions such as continued employment. 
On this basis, Ian Bull has met the Company’s shareholding requirement in full. Jim Mullen has not yet met his requirement as 
2015 is his first year in the Chief Executive role and as an executive director.
Director
Shares owned
outright at 
31 December 2015
 or date of cessation
(1)
Interests in share
incentive schemes,
without performance
conditions at 
31 December 2015
(2)
Interests in share
incentive schemes,
subject to
performance
conditions at 
31 December 2015
(3)
Unexercised
interests in
option schemes,
without
performance
conditions at
 31 December 2015
(4)
Shares
owned outright at 
31 December 2014
or later date of
date of appointment
(1)
Actual shareholding
(% of base salary)
Jim Mullen
(5)
37,005 157,348 1,520,185 15,345 37,005 27%
Ian Bull
(6)
827,642 46,582 1,246,199 14,528 676,505 236%
John Kelly 58,041 – – – 28,041
Sly Bailey 10,000 – – – 10,000
Christine Hodgson 15,000 – – – 15,000
David Martin 55,000 – – – 55,000
Richard Moross 5,000 – – – 5,000
Mark Pain
(7)
50,000 – – – –
Previous directors
Richard Glynn
(8)
523,343 – – – 456,751
Peter Erskine
(9)
158,095 – – – 158,095
Darren Shapland
(10)
35,000 – – – 35,000
(1) Includes partnership shares and dividend shares under the SIP.
(2) This relates to shares awarded under the DBP, Restricted Share Plan and bonus shares awarded under the SIP.
(3) This relates to outstanding shares awarded under the PSP.
(4) This relates to options under the SAYE scheme.
(5) Jim Mullen was appointed as a director on 7 May 2015.
(6) During 2015, Ian Bull exercised 208,058 shares which had vested under the LGP and received an additional 44,732 dividend shares. Between 31 December 2015 and 22 February 2016, 
Ian Bull purchased 126 shares under the SIP and was also awarded 126 bonus shares.
(7) Mark Pain was appointed as a director on 3 December 2015.
(8) Richard Glynn ceased to be a director on 31 March 2015. During 2015, Richard Glynn exercised (a) 1,642,564 shares which had vested under the LGP and received an additional 526,140 
dividend shares; and (b) 1,177,103 shares relating to his 2010 Share Award and received an additional 387,459 dividend shares.
(9) Peter Erskine ceased to be a director on 3 December 2015.
(10) Darren Shapland ceased to be a director on 24 September 2015.
For the purposes of determining executive director shareholdings, the individual’s salary at the year end and the three-month 
average share price to 31 December 2015 has been used.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Historical TSR performance and Chief Executive’s remuneration outcomes
As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE250, it is considered an appropriate indication of market movements against which  
to benchmark the Company’s performance. The chart below summarises the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE250 
index over the seven-year period to 31 December 2015 below.
Seven-year TSR performance
  Ladbrokes  FTSE 250
400 31 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
31 Dec
2013
31 Dec
2014
31 Dec
2015
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
The table below summarises the Chief Executive’s single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and long-term 
incentive vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over the seven-year period to 31 December 2015.
Director
Chief Executive 
Office 2009 2010
(1)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
(2)
Chief Executive  
Officer single figure  
of remuneration (£m)
Christopher Bell £0.9m £0.7m
Richard Glynn £1.0m £1.2m £2.5m £4.7m £0.7m £0.2m
Jim Mullen £0.6m
Annual bonus pay-out 
(as a % of maximum 
opportunity) 0% 76% 50% 50% 0% 0% 15%
Long-term incentive 
vesting out-turn
(3)
 
(includes PSP and LGP 
opportunity, shown as a % 
of maximum opportunity) 0% 0% 0% 82% 38% 0% 0%
(1) The above number for Christopher Bell in 2010 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure. Richard Glynn 
was appointed as Chief Executive on 22 April 2010 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
(2) The above number for Richard Glynn in 2015 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure. Jim Mullen was 
appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2015 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end. The annual bonus payout relates to what was paid to Jim Mullen 
in 2015 as Chief Executive.
(3) Increases in total compensation in 2012 and 2013 have been as a result of increased pay-outs under the Company’s long-term incentive plans, as a result of meeting the relevant 
performance targets, e.g. PSP and LGP. Richard Glynn did not receive any changes to salary or cash allowance in lieu of pension since his appointment in April 2010 to his departure 
in March 2015. 
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive
The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits (including cash allowance in lieu of pension) and annual bonus for the 
Chief Executive and that of a representative group of the Company’s colleagues.
For these purposes, we have used all UK-based colleagues as the comparative group, as this represents the most appropriate 
comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Chief Executive.
% change 
in base salary 
2015 vs. 2014
% change in benefits 
(including cash allowance 
in lieu of pension)
2015 vs. 2014
% change in
annual bonus
2015 vs. 2014
Chief Executive -10.3% -14.0% N/A
All UK-based colleagues 2.5% 0% N/A
The % changes for the Chief Executive have been determined with reference to aggregate numbers for Jim Mullen and Richard 
Glynn when undertaking Chief Executive responsibilities. The % change in annual bonus for 2015 vs. 2014 cannot be calculated  
as annual bonus pay-outs in 2014 were zero for the Chief Executive and other UK-based colleagues. 
68 ladbrokesplc.com Relative importance of the spend on pay
The chart below illustrates the current year and prior year 
overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid.
278.4
284.1
+2.0%
-62.4%
Overall expenditure 
on employee pay
 
Dividends
(1)
  
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
£m
81.5
30.6
Relative importance of the spend on pay
  2014  2015
The figures presented have been calculated on the following 
basis:
 – Overall expenditure on employee pay – represents total  
staff costs; and
 –  Dividends – dividends paid (or declared to be paid) in respect 
of the year.
(1) Total dividend per share FY2015: 3.0 pence (FY2014: 8.9 pence)
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016
This section provides an overview of how the Committee is 
proposing to implement the remuneration policy in 2016. 
The Committee is intending to implement the policy as follows 
until the completion of the proposed merger. Prior to completion 
of the proposed merger, the Committee will review the policy 
and its execution and will make any necessary revisions which 
would be communicated to shareholders for their approval. 
Remuneration arrangements after the proposed merger for 
executive directors, including those from Gala Coral, will be in 
line with the applicable policy.
Ian Bull will be leaving at the end of February 2016, therefore 
specific detail on his arrangements have not been included 
below as he is not entitled to a bonus or a PSP award for 2016. 
He will be however receiving a salary, benefits and pensions 
until his departure date in line with implementation of the 
remuneration policy in 2015, and payment in lieu of notice  
as described on page 53. 
Base salary
In determining salary increases for 2016, the Remuneration 
Committee took into consideration business performance, 
affordability and pay and conditions across the Group  
and determined that there will be 5% increase for the  
Chief Executive in 2016.
The table below shows base salaries for 2016:
Base salary from 1 March 2016
Jim Mullen £525,000
Benefits
Benefits are generally set at an appropriate market competitive 
level, taking into account a number of factors including market 
practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay 
comparators.
There will be no changes to the benefits package received 
by executive directors in 2016.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension
The executive directors have elected to receive a cash 
allowance of 22.5% of salary in lieu of pension, and there 
will be no change to cash allowance levels for 2016.
The table below shows cash allowances for 2016: 
2016 cash allowance in lieu of pension £ (% of salary)
Jim Mullen £116,719 (22.5%)
2016 cash allowance has been calculated taking into 
account his salary increase of 5% from 1 March 2016.
Please note that the executive directors do not have a 
prospective right to defined benefit pension arrangements. 
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain  
at 170% of base salary for the Chief Executive in 2016.
The table below provides further information on the 
performance measures against which performance will 
be measured:
Relative weighting (% of maximum bonus opportunity)
Financial – operating profit
(1)
60%
Individual – mainly specific financial targets 40%
(1) Profit before tax, net financial expense and exceptional items.
Profit is the key financial measure for Ladbrokes. Profit attributed 
to High Rollers is excluded from the profit performance 
calculations for annual bonus purposes. The individual objective 
element of the bonus remain subject to a profit underpin.
At this stage, the annual bonus targets are considered 
commercially sensitive. This is because of the close link 
between the selected performance measures and strategy. 
However, in next year’s Annual Report, we commit to providing 
shareholders with as much context as possible on performance 
against those targets and the resulting bonus out-turn rationale, 
within commercial constraints.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Performance Share Plan
It is anticipated that Jim Mullen will receive a 2016 PSP award  
of 175% of his salary (as at 1 January 2016). The performance 
measures will be the same as for the 2015 PSP award, with 
the TSR peer group modified to take M&A activity into account, 
i.e. will consist of 888 Holdings, GVC Holdings, Paddy Power 
Betfair, Sportech and William Hill, and the TSR outperformance 
and responsible gambling targets in line with the 2015 PSP 
award. The three-year cumulative EPS and FCF 2016 targets 
will be as follows: 
EPS performance
Percentage of the 
award vesting
Less than 21.7 pence 0%
21.7 pence 25%
26.4 pence 100%
FCF performance
Percentage of the 
award vesting
Less than £219m 0%
£219m 25%
£310m 100%
Non-executive director remuneration
The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure 
as at 1 January 2016.
2016 fees
Chairman (inclusive of Board member fee) £285,000
Senior independent non-executive director £70,000
Board member £43,000-£55,000
Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman* £15,000
Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman* £10,000
Additional fee for membership of the Audit and/or 
Remuneration Committee* £7,000
* Not payable to Chairman or senior independent non-executive director.
Board members who receive a fee of £55,000 for being a 
Board member will not be entitled to the additional £7,000 for 
being a member of the Audit and/or Remuneration Committee. 
However, they will be entitled to the applicable additional fee 
for being an Audit or Remuneration Committee Chairman. 
On 3 December 2015, in light of the changes to the Board 
membership, it was decided to increase the Chairman’s  
annual fee from £250,000 to £285,000, the senior independent 
non-executive director’s total annual fee from £60,000 to  
£70,000 and offer a total annual fee to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee of £70,000. 
There are no additional fees for membership of the Social 
Responsibility Committee or the Nomination Committee.
External appointments
The Company recognises the benefits of executive directors 
taking on external appointments as non-executive directors, 
subject to the limitations set out in the Policy Report and to 
Committee approval.
With effect 1 September 2014, Ian Bull became a non-executive 
director of St Modwen Properties PLC. For the period from 
1 January 2015 until 31 December 2015, Ian received fees  
of £49,392, which he is allowed to retain.
Consideration by the Committee of matters relating 
to directors’ remuneration
The Ladbrokes Board entrusts the Committee with the 
responsibility for the remuneration policy in respect of executive 
directors and senior executives and ensuring its ongoing 
appropriateness and relevance. In setting the remuneration for 
these groups, the Committee takes into account the pay and 
conditions of the wider workforce as a matter of course.
The table below shows the Committee members during the 
year and their attendance at Committee meetings:
Directors as at  
31 December 2015
Number of meetings 
eligible to attend
Number of meetings 
attended
David Martin 8 8
Sly Bailey
(1)
8 7
Christine Hodgson 8 8
John Kelly
(2)
0 0
Richard Moross
8 8
Former members
Peter Erskine 8 8
(1) Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business 
commitments. 
(2) John Kelly became Chairman and a member of the Committee as of 3 December 2015. 
He attended two meetings during the year by invitation to support his handover as 
Chairman of the Company.
The Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Group 
Head of Reward attend Committee meetings by invitation, other 
than when their personal remuneration is being discussed. The 
Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee. 
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on 
executive remuneration matters from Kepler, a brand of Mercer 
which is part of the MMC group of companies (Kepler). Kepler 
was appointed by the Committee as independent remuneration 
advisers following a tender process in 2014 and was retained 
during the 2015 financial year. Kepler is a signatory to the Code 
of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of 
which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Group’s 
website at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Services 
provided by Kepler included advice on remuneration packages 
for executives and non-executives, assistance with a review of 
the current incentive arrangements in light of the new strategy 
and potential merger and drafting the Director’s remuneration 
report, as well as other ad-hoc advice related to remuneration. 
The fees paid to Kepler in relation to advice provided to 
Committee for 2015 were £98,465. 
Deloitte LLP also provided the Company with a TSR monitoring 
update. Deloitte received £1,750 for their services in 2015.
Deloitte also provides the Company with internal audit and 
miscellaneous tax and consulting services.
Mercer provides advice to pensions trustees in Ireland. 
However, the Committee is satisfied that neither Kepler  
as a part of Mercer nor Deloitte, in providing remuneration 
advice to the Committee, had any connection that impaired 
its independence. 
70 ladbrokesplc.com Shareholder voting
The table below outlines the result of the votes on the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM:
AGM date
Number of
 votes cast For Against Withheld
2015 Annual Report on 
Remuneration
523,171,666 365,015,508
(69.8%)
158,156,158
(30.2%)
84,319,464
The Policy Report was last approved at the 2014 AGM where it received a 98.0% ‘for’ vote.
As discussed in the Chairman’s letter, the Board notes the vote in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and understands 
that it primarily relates to Richard Glynn’s termination arrangements. Ladbrokes has spoken with several shareholders about the 
termination arrangements for Richard Glynn where his contract required that any settlement had to be determined in line with 
UK damages principles. The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that the use of such contracts is no longer best practice; 
therefore the current executive team have contracts where termination arrangements are determined on PILON principles which 
are in line with market practice.
On behalf of the Board
David Martin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
22 February 2016
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Governance
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for  
the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Corporate Governance reports on pages 38 to 71 are 
deemed to be incorporated into this Directors’ report (the 
Report) by reference. Details of the likely future developments  
of the business are described in the Strategic report on pages  
2 to 35. The Strategic report, Directors’ report and other 
sections from the Annual Report which are incorporated by 
reference, collectively comprise the ‘Management Report’  
for the purposes of DTR 4.1.5.
Directors
Biographical details of the directors at the date of the Report 
are shown on pages 36 and 37. Richard Glynn served as a 
director until 31 March 2015, Darren Shapland served as a 
director until 24 September 2015 and Peter Erskine served 
as a director until 3 December 2015.
Details of the directors’ service contracts, their share interests 
and other details of their remuneration by the Company are 
contained in the Directors’ remuneration report.
The Chairman and the independent non-executive directors 
are appointed, subject to re-election, for a specified term of 
approximately three years, renewable by one additional period 
of three years and renewable thereafter at the discretion of 
the Company.
The Board has in place an established procedure for managing, 
and where appropriate approving, any conflicts of interest.
Appointment and replacement of directors
Directors are appointed to, or removed from, the Board 
according to the provisions contained in the Company’s 
Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’) and the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006. A copy of the Articles is available to view 
on the Company’s website www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all directors, with the exception of Ian Bull, 
will stand for election or re-election at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
Each of the directors has been provided with a qualifying 
third-party indemnity from the Company which remain in  
force at the date of the Report. The Company also  
maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles 
of Association
The Company’s Articles may be amended by the members  
of the Company by special resolution (requiring a majority  
of at least 75% of the persons voting on the relevant resolution).
Annual General Meeting
This year’s Annual General Meeting will be held at Deutsche 
Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, 
London EC2N 2DB on 5 May 2016 at 11.00am.
Dividends
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 
2.0 pence per ordinary share, making a total of 3.0 pence for 
the year. Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 
12 May 2016 to shareholders registered on 29 March 2016.
Listing Rule 9.8.4
The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is 
used in connection with certain of the Company’s employee 
share ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust 
not allocated to plan members. There are no other items that 
are required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.4.
Share capital
At 22 February 2016, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with the FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules,  
of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the 
Company’s shares:
Number of 
shares
% of issued 
share capital
Playtech Limited 98,589,095 9.71
The Capital Group of Companies, Inc. 71,234,245 7.00
Old Mutual Plc 61,570,205 6.05
FIL Limited 51,635,952 5.07
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 45,953,525 5.00
None of the interests stated above have changed since  
31 December 2015.
Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note 
27 to the consolidated financial statements which forms part 
of the Report. Rights attributable to the Company’s ordinary 
shares are as set out in the Articles and in applicable company 
law. Holders of the Company’s ordinary shares have the right 
to attend, speak and vote (either in person or by proxy) at a 
general meeting of the Company and the right to participate 
in any distribution of the Company which includes, but is not 
limited to, dividends.
The Company operates a number of employee share plans 
which are detailed in note 28. The voting rights of shares held  
in trust for share plan participants, as beneficial holders, are 
exercised at the direction of the participant.
Directors’ authority to issue and purchase shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015, the 
directors were authorised to allot ordinary shares up to a 
nominal value of £87,167,847 and were further authorised to 
make market purchases of up to 92,295,379 of the Company’s 
ordinary shares. 
No purchases of Company shares were made during the year. 
Details of shares allotted during the year are shown in note 27 
to the consolidated financial statements. To the extent the 
authorities granted by shareholders remain unused they remain 
in effect until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 
or 30 June 2016.
Corporate responsibility
The 2015 Corporate Responsibility (CR) report is available at 
www.ladbrokesplc.com and should be considered in 
conjunction with the highlights disclosed on pages 31 to 35.
The processes described in the section ‘Financial reporting, 
internal control and risk management systems’ on pages 41 to 
43 applied to CR (including human rights issues as appropriate), 
as did the practices described on page 40 for ensuring the 
Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information and 
training and for assisting the directors to update their 
knowledge. In addition to business presentations regularly 
Directors’ report
72 ladbrokesplc.com made to the Board at which CR was considered as appropriate, 
the Board conducts an annual CR review and Board members 
regularly receive CR updates. CR performance is included in 
business unit accountability systems and remuneration 
arrangements. The Remuneration Committee, in determining 
executive remuneration, takes into account CR matters as 
described in the Directors’ remuneration report.
The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2015 and going 
forward primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group 
and the quality of its brands. The promotion of responsible 
gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable was 
of particular importance. CR also impacted on the performance 
of the Group’s employees on whom the Group relies for the 
provision of high-quality services to customers and the health 
and safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
The identification and management of CR issues, the CR 
reporting framework and any associated data has been reviewed 
by the Company’s CR adviser, Carnstone Partners LLP . 
Details of the Group’s disclosure of its greenhouse gas 
emissions are set out in the Strategic report on page 35.
Employee policies
The Board values two-way communication between senior 
management and employees on all aspects of the Company’s 
strategy, Company performance, management effectiveness 
and approach to wellbeing.
There is a rolling three-year internal communications strategy 
and delivery plan which includes interventions such as regular 
management roadshows, virtual strategy briefings, visits to 
operating units, responses to the regular colleague opinion 
survey and updates on performance.
The internal communications channels include a mobile device 
platform, face to face events, a corporate intranet, phone 
broadcasting, SMS alerts, a Company magazine, leadership 
and line manager briefing packs.
The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in 2012 as 
an evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism 
for employee dialogue and engagement.
In addition, those employees who are eligible are also 
encouraged to become involved in the Group’s performance 
through participation in share schemes. Retail colleagues  
also have the opportunity to raise issues with the senior 
management team by submitting emails for consideration to our 
‘speak up’ mailbox, or by calling on one of our ‘speak up’ days.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities 
are recognised in the formulation and development of 
employment policies.
It is the Company’s policy to give full and fair consideration  
to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to 
their particular aptitudes and abilities. If an employee becomes 
disabled, the Company’s objective is the continued provision 
of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative 
position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary. 
Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities  
for training, career development and promotion.
Significant agreements that take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control 
following a takeover bid 
The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc (LGF),  
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and five separate 
banks for the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities  
of up to £350m on a committed basis provide that the banks 
may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.  
On cancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately 
repayable. In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would 
normally arrange substitute facilities. In addition, LGF issued bonds 
in March 2010 and June 2014. The bonds have a ‘Put Event’ that 
allows bondholders to exercise put options when a change of 
control occurs. The put options allow the bondholders to require 
LGF to purchase the bonds at a price of 101 pence. 
Nevada regulator
Shareholders of Ladbrokes are subject to regulation by the 
Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming 
Commission as a result of the Company’s ownership of 
licensed subsidiaries in Nevada, USA and the Company’s 
registration as a publicly traded company operating in Nevada. 
Information regarding Nevada gaming regulatory requirements 
is available at www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors.
Financial risk management
A description of the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity 
and cash flow risk is contained in note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements and forms part of the Report.
Auditor and disclosure of information 
to the auditor
Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of the 
Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information (being information needed by the 
auditor in connection with preparing its report) of which the 
auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps 
that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to 
make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters 
discussed in the connection with the viability statement on page 
30, the directors considers it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors’ report and the Strategic report were approved 
by the Board and have been signed on its behalf by the 
Company Secretary.
By order of the Board.
Adrian Bushnell
Company Secretary
22 February 2016
Ladbrokes plc
Registered Number 566221
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Financial statements
Financial statements
Consolidated financial statements contents
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
70 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
75 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
76 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc
84 Consolidated income statement
85 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
86 Consolidated balance sheet
87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
88 Consolidated statement of cash flows
89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
89 1 Corporate information
89 2 Basis of preparation
89 3 Changes in accounting policies
89 4 Summary of significant accounting policies
96 5 Segment information
97 6 Exceptional items 
98 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense
98 8 Finance expense and income
99 9 Staff costs
100 10 Income tax expense
101 11 Dividends
102 12 Earnings per share
103 13 Goodwill and intangible assets
104 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets
105 15 Property, plant and equipment
106 16 Interest in joint venture
107 17 Interest in associates and other investments
108 18 Trade and other receivables
108 19 Cash and cash equivalents
108 20 Trade and other payables 
109 21 Provisions
109 22 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
109 23 Lease liabilities
110 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies
112 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures
115 26 Net debt
116 27 Issued Share capital
116 28 Employee share ownership plans
117 29 Notes to the statement of cash flows
118 30 Retirement benefit schemes
120 31 Share-based payments
122 32 Commitments and contingencies
123 33 Related party disclosures
128 34 Proposed merger
128 35 Subsequent events
Consolidated financial statements contents
74 ladbrokesplc.com Statement of directors' responsibilities
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 71
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
have prepared the consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the Company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the consolidated and Company financial statements 
respectively;
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
a company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in 
pages 36 to 37 of this Annual Report confirm that, to the best of
their knowledge:
– the consolidated financial statements, which have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and
– the Strategic report and Directors’ report contained in the 
Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Each director in office at the date the directors’ report is 
approved, that:
(a) so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
(b) he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a 
director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
Jim Mullen
Ian Bull 
Directors
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Financial statements
Financial statements
Independent auditors' report to the members 
of Ladbrokes plc 
72 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
– Ladbrokes plc’s Group financial statements and Company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit and 
cash flows for the year then ended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
– the Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report 
and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
– the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
– the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
– the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
– the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then 
ended;
– the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in 
the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced 
Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our audit approach
Overview
– Overall group materiality: £4.7 million which represents 5% of average profit before tax and 
exceptional items over the previous three years (2014: £5.7 million).
– We conducted full scope audits at five reporting units: UK Retail, UK Digital, Australia and two 
reporting units included within Corporate costs.
– Specific audit procedures on revenue and receivables were performed on the High Rollers 
reportable segment.
– Our audit scope addressed over 80% of the Group’s revenue and profit before tax and 
exceptional items.
– Impairment assessments for: Goodwill, and retail licence intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment (‘PPE’).
– Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing nature of the digital gaming sector.
– Accounting for the fair value of contingent consideration relating to business combinations made 
in 2013 (Playtech and Betdaq).
– Recognition and disclosure of tax losses and the provision for uncertain tax positions.
– Nature and presentation of exceptional items.
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Ladbrokes plc
76 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 73
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we 
also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by 
the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment assessments for: Goodwill, retail licence 
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 
(‘PPE’);
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee Report), note 4 (Summary of 
significant accounting policies), note 14 (Impairment testing of 
goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets).
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ requires that Goodwill and other 
indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment 
review at least annually, or more frequently when there is 
evidence of a trigger event. IAS 36 also requires a number of 
specific disclosures in respect of the impairment assessment.
A new Strategy was announced during the first half of the year, 
which included a reassessment of the prospects of the Group, 
in particular the cash generating units that make up the Retail 
segments, together with a plan for greater investment in the 
shorter term.
The impairment reviews performed by management did not 
identify any impairment in respect of goodwill, but did result 
in an impairment charge of £53.2m in respect of retail licence 
intangible assets and PPE which was recorded in the first half 
of the year and reported in the interim results to 30 June 2015.
In respect of each impairment assessment, over goodwill and 
retail licence intangible assets and PPE, a key component of 
our work was to consider the budgets and cash flow forecasts 
prepared by management, as outlined below. This was then 
supplemented by specific procedures in relation to the goodwill 
assessments and in relation to retail licence intangible assets 
and PPE.
Procedures on budgets and cash flow forecasts:
We obtained the annual impairment assessments performed by 
management in respect of goodwill and agreed the cash flow 
forecasts therein to the latest Board approved budgets and 
plans as at 31 December 2015. We evaluated the assumptions 
in the forecasts and plans and considered the evidence in 
support of them, principally in relation to historical trends and 
actual performance in 2015. This included considering trends in 
gross win and margins and changes to the cost base (such as 
Machine Game Duty and marketing costs) and whether the 
expected growth in Digital were appropriately reflected as 
relevant. Our work did not highlight any material issues.
We also compared the actual results for each cash generating 
unit for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the latest Board 
approved budgets and plans to the forecasts prepared with the 
new Strategy prior to June 2015 and found management’s 
forecasting ability to be reliable for the purposes of the 
impairment assessments.
Goodwill
The Group has goodwill of £157.2 million including amounts 
relating to the business combinations of Playtech (£34.9 million) 
and Betdaq (£31.5 million) and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 
(£19.4 million).
Whilst the annual impairment review of goodwill performed by 
management as at 31 December 2015 supported the carrying 
values above, we focused on this area as the preparation of 
these assessments involve a significant degree of judgement 
and the results are sensitive to changes in the future forecasts 
of cash flows and other assumptions such as growth and 
discount rates.
We also considered the discount rates used in the goodwill and 
retail licence intangible assets and PPE impairment assessments 
by comparing them to the cost of capital for the Group. We 
found these to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
In addition to testing the results of the impairment assessments 
performed by management and whether the amount of any 
impairment charge identified was appropriate, we also 
considered the disclosures given in the Annual Report and 
found that these satisfied the requirements of IAS 36.
For the goodwill impairment reviews showing headroom and not 
giving rise to impairments, we also performed sensitivity analysis 
on the level of cash flows, the discount and growth used in the 
impairment assessments and concurred with management’s 
conclusion that a material change in these assumptions would 
be required to trigger an impairment charge.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Financial statements
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
74 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Retail licence intangible assets and PPE
As noted above, an impairment assessment was performed for 
the Retail cash generating units in mid 2015 following the 
announcement of the new Strategy. As a result, management 
determined that an impairment charge of £53.2 million was 
required to reduce the value of these assets to their recoverable 
amount. As at 31 December 2015 the Group has retail licence 
intangible assets with an indefinite life of £383.4 million following 
the impairment noted above.
We focused on the UK Retail, Northern Ireland and Republic of 
Ireland cash generating units in particular as these comprise the 
majority of the Group’s Retail licence intangible assets and PPE 
balances.
Our focus was on the sufficiency of the impairment charge of 
£53.2 million recorded in the interim results for the six months 
ended 30 June 2015 and whether an additional impairment 
charge was required at the year end. 
We obtained the impairment assessments for retail licence 
intangible assets and PPE prepared by management at the 
interim stage and agreed the forecasts to the latest Board 
approved plans at that time and performed procedures 
consistent with those described above.
We evaluated management’s determination of individual cash 
generating units either at a shop or group of shops level and 
evaluated the evidence of player activity in support of grouping 
where relevant. We found the basis for the grouping to be 
supported. We understood the basis of preparation of shop (or 
group of shops) forecasts compared to the overall Retail 
forecasts and found them to be consistent.
Having considered the above we found the impairment charge 
of £53.2m recorded at the interim stage to be appropriate.
We also compared the actual results of UK Retail, Northern 
Ireland and Republic of Ireland for the year ended 2015 and the 
budgets for 2016 to the previous forecasts and plans under the 
Strategy announced in mid 2015 and found that they were 
consistent and that management’s forecasts were reliable for the 
purposes of the impairment assessments and that, accordingly,
there was no indication that further impairments were required 
at 31 December 2015.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the level of cash flows, 
the discount and growth used in the impairment assessments 
and we concurred with management’s conclusion that a 
reasonably possible change in these could trigger impairment 
charges in the future.
Compliance with laws and regulations given the 
developing nature of the digital gaming sector
The international legal and licencing framework for digital gaming 
is territory specific. Regulations are developing and this evolving 
environment makes compliance an increasingly complex area 
with territory specific regulations, responsible gambling and anti-
money laundering obligations.
Given the potential for litigation and licence withdrawal, the risk of 
non-compliance with digital gaming laws and licence regulations 
could give rise to material fines, penalties, legal claims or market 
exclusion.
We evaluated the controls and risk management processes
in operation in respect of compliance with digital licencing 
regulations responsible gambling and anti-money laundering 
obligations covering player registration controls, customer 
deposits and withdrawals.
We assessed how the management monitor legal and regulatory 
developments and their assessment of the potential impact on 
the business.
We also read the Group’s reports on litigation matters provided 
by management. We discussed each of the material cases 
noted in the reports to determine the Group’s assessment of 
the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise. 
Our work included testing to assess the completeness of the 
matters in the Group’s litigation reports in order to assess the 
appropriateness of the provisions recorded by management.
We also read, where required, external legal or regulatory advice 
sought by the Group.
Whilst acknowledging that this is a judgemental area, we found 
that the Group had an appropriate basis of accounting for these 
matters in the financial statements.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
78 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 75
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for the fair value of contingent consideration 
relating to business combinations made in 2013 (Playtech 
and Betdaq)
The Group is required to fair value the contingent consideration 
associated with the business combinations of Playtech and 
Betdaq made in 2013 at each balance sheet date. At 31 
December 2015 the total contingent consideration was £32.3
million with a fair value movement of £0.2 million recognised in 
the income statement for the year.
This is determined through a cash flow forecast model. The 
inputs to these models are subject to judgement regarding the 
determination of EBITDA forecasts, discount rates and a multiple 
specific to the Ladbrokes share price.
We obtained the Playtech and Betdaq contingent consideration 
models prepared by management. We assessed the 
appropriateness of the models by testing the integrity, comparing 
the data in the models to the relevant agreements and testing 
key inputs to third party sources and publically available 
information where appropriate.
The key inputs we focused on were the forecast results for each 
business, the probability range associated with future EBITDA 
forecasts and the discount rate.
We compared the forecast results with the latest Board 
approved budgets and considered the results of the testing 
performed on the same forecasts for the impairment area of 
focus above.
The nature of the valuation of the contingent consideration 
results in a number of scenarios where a reasonably probable 
change in the assumptions may materially impact the fair value. 
We therefore considered management’s proposed disclosures 
with regard to the impact of changes in assumptions and found 
them to be reasonable in light of our procedures.
Recognition and disclosure of tax losses and the provision 
for uncertain tax positions.
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee Report), note 4
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and note 10
(Income tax expense)
The Group’s total tax credit of £48.3 million for the year reflects 
the recognition and use of previously unrecognised tax losses. 
This includes £35.6 million relating to mainly UK adjustments in 
respect of prior years, a further £18.4 million in respect of tax 
losses utilised during the year, offset by a number of individually 
immaterial items.
The Group also has unresolved tax positions in the UK, the 
valuation of which is a judgemental area.
There is significant judgement applied in determining the Group’s 
deferred tax assets relating to tax losses, in terms of both 
recognition and disclosure.
We considered the overall tax figures recorded in the financial 
statements and the related disclosures in the context of the 
Group’s Board approved tax strategy.
With regard to adjustments in respect of prior years we read 
and understood the Group’s correspondence with HMRC and 
considered the advice received by the Group from its third party 
advisers to assess the appropriateness of the related amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements.
We assessed whether there was evidence to determine that 
additional deferred tax assets should be recognised or disclosed, 
taking into account forecast profits and the Board’s approved 
tax strategy.
We also assessed the key judgements with respect to open 
positions and settlements and read correspondence with the 
taxation authorities. We obtained evidence to support the 
provisions and consider these to reflect management’s best 
estimates.
We found that the overall position adopted in the financial 
statements and the related disclosures in respect of tax was 
reasonable.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Financial statements
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
76 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Nature and presentation of exceptional items
Refer to page 46 (Audit Committee Report), note 2 (Basis of
Preparation) and note 6 (Exceptional items)
The financial statements include certain items which are 
disclosed as ‘exceptional’. The most significant of these 
exceptional charges are:
– Impairment loss of £58.3 million;
– Loss on shop closures of £19.8 million; and
– Corporate transaction costs of £17.6 million
Total exceptional items amounted to £99.0 million.
We focused on this area because exceptional items are not 
defined by IFRSs and it therefore requires judgement regarding 
their size and nature by management to identify such items. 
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is 
important to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
We assessed the appropriateness and application of the Group’s 
accounting policy in respect of those items classified as 
exceptional in nature.
We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the 
financial statements by assessing whether the classification was 
in line with the Group’s accounting policy on exceptional items 
set out in note 2 of the financial statements and whether, in our 
view it was reasonable for these items to be separately disclosed 
as exceptional. We also tested the nature of costs included to 
supporting documentation on a sample basis.
We found that the Group’s accounting policy had been followed, 
and that the costs disclosed were appropriate for inclusion.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured into five reportable segments being 
UK Retail, European Retail, Digital, Core Telephone Betting 
and High Rollers. The Consolidated financial statements are a 
consolidation of reporting units that make up the five reportable 
segments and Corporate costs.
We identified five of the Group’s reporting units (UK Retail, 
UK Digital, Australia and two reporting units included within 
Corporate costs) that required an audit of their complete 
financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics. 
In addition we performed specified audit procedures on revenue 
and receivables in the High Rollers reportable segment due to 
risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
All work was undertaken by the Group engagement team with 
the exception of Australia for which a component PwC audit 
team performed the audit work under the instruction and 
direction of the Group engagement team. Our audit scope 
addressed over 80% of the Group’s revenue and profit before 
tax and exceptional items.
The Group consolidation and a number of other areas were 
audited centrally. This included tax, share-based payments and 
pensions.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial 
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect 
of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £4.7 million (2014: £5.7 million).
How we determined it 5% of average profit before tax 
and exceptional items over the 
previous three years.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
We applied this benchmark 
because, in our view, profit 
before tax and exceptional 
items is the metric against 
which the performance of the 
Group is most commonly 
measured and because in our 
view this is the most relevant 
measure of recurring 
performance. For the current 
year, our materiality calculation 
was based on average profit 
before tax and exceptional 
items over the previous three 
years as the Group’s new 
Strategy includes significant 
additional marketing spend 
which impacts profitability in the 
shorter term.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above £250,000 
(2014: £300,000) as well as misstatements below that amount 
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
80 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 77
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 73, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend 
them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
information in the Annual Report is:
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
– otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
the statement given by the directors on page 75, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the Group’s and Company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
the section of the Annual Report on page 46, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to 
the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Financial statements
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
78 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in 
relation to:
the directors’ confirmation on page 42 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
the directors’ explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our 
review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ 
process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; 
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our 
audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 75, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued
82 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 79
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and
– the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness 
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Stuart Newman (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 February 2016
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Financial statements
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 
80 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
2015 2014
For the year ended 31 December Notes
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue 5 1,199.5 – 1,199.5 1,174.6 – 1,174.6
Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation 7 (1,042.2) (27.9) (1,070.1) (957.1) (16.2) (973.3)
Share of results from joint venture and associates 16,17 4.0 – 4.0 (0.2) – (0.2)
Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current 
assets (77.4) (71.4) (148.8) (77.7) (57.2) (134.9)
Profit/(loss) before tax and finance expense 7 83.9 (99.3) (15.4) 139.6 (73.4) 66.2
Finance expense 8 (28.2) (0.1) (28.3) (27.5) (1.1) (28.6)
Finance income 8 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.1 – 0.1
Profit/(loss) before tax 55.8 (99.0) (43.2) 112.2 (74.5) 37.7
Income tax credit/(expense) 10 35.0 13.3 48.3 (5.6) 8.9 3.3
Profit for the year 90.8 (85.7) 5.1 106.6 (65.6) 41.0
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 90.8 (85.7) 5.1 106.6 (65.6) 41.0
Earnings per share on profit for the year
– basic 12 9.4p – 0.5p 11.6p – 4.4p
– diluted 12 9.3p – 0.5p 11.5p – 4.4p
Proposed dividends 11 2.0p – 2.0p 4.6p – 4.6p
The notes on pages 89 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement
84 ladbrokesplc.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 81
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
For the year ended 31 December Notes £m
2015 
£m £m
2014 
£m
Profit for the year 5.1 41.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences (5.8) (3.6)
Total items that will be reclassified to profit or loss (5.8) (3.6)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension scheme 30 3.2 1.6
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension scheme (0.6) 2.7
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted for 
using the equity method (0.6) –
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 2.0 4.3
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax (3.8) 0.7
Total comprehensive income for the year 1.3 41.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 1.3 41.7
Non-controlling interests – –
The notes on pages 89 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Financial statements
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
82 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
At 31 December Notes 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill and intangible assets 13 674.3 742.0
Property, plant and equipment 15 177.9 187.4
Interest in joint venture 16 11.5 9.1
Interest in associates and other investments 17 21.3 18.0
Other financial assets 11.4 7.2
Deferred tax assets 10 0.7 –
Retirement benefit asset 30 76.3 69.5
973.4 1,033.2
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 53.5 57.2
Corporation tax recoverable 47.1 12.0
Derivative financial instruments 0.2 –
Cash and short-term deposits 19 68.4 62.0
169.2 131.2
Total assets 1,142.6 1,164.4
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft 19 – (1.0)
Trade and other payables 20 (242.4) (205.9)
Corporation tax liabilities (4.2) (7.4)
Other financial liabilities 25 – (1.1)
Lease liabilities 23 (4.9) –
Provisions 21 (9.2) (6.4)
(260.7) (221.8)
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 (323.1) (439.3)
Other financial liabilities 25 (35.6) (42.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (52.7) (64.1)
Lease liabilities 23 (4.4) –
Provisions 21 (9.6) (5.0)
(425.4) (550.9)
Total liabilities (686.1) (772.7)
Net assets 456.5 391.7
Shareholders’ equity
Issued share capital 27 297.5 270.5
Share premium 302.9 214.9
Treasury and own shares (112.3) (116.1)
(Accumulated losses)/retained earnings (28.1) 20.1
Foreign currency translation reserve (3.6) 2.2
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 456.4 391.6
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1
Total equity 456.5 391.7
The financial statements on pages 84 to 128 were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by.
Jim Mullen
Ian Bull
Directors
The notes on pages 89 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
86 ladbrokesplc.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 83
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Issued share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Treasury and 
own shares 
£m
Retained
earnings/
(Accumulated 
losses)
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
(1)
£m
Equity 
attributable to 
owners of the 
parent
£m
Non-
controlling
interests 
£m
Total’
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2014 269.5 212.9 (116.7) 55.5 5.8 427.0 1.3 428.3
Profit for the year – – – 41.0 – 41.0 – 41.0
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 4.3 (3.6) 0.7 – 0.7
Total comprehensive income – – – 45.3 (3.6) 41.7 – 41.7
Issue of shares 1.0 2.0 – – – 3.0 – 3.0
Share-based payments charge – – – 2.8 – 2.8 – 2.8
Net movement in shares held in ESOP trusts – – 0.6 (3.3) – (2.7) – (2.7)
Equity dividends – – – (81.4) – (81.4) – (81.4)
Non-controlling interests – – – 1.2 – 1.2 (1.2) –
At 31 December 2014 270.5 214.9 (116.1) 20.1 2.2 391.6 0.1 391.7
At 1 January 2015 270.5 214.9 (116.1) 20.1 2.2 391.6 0.1 391.7
Profit for the year – – – 5.1 – 5.1 – 5.1
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 2.0 (5.8) (3.8) – (3.8)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 7.1 (5.8) 1.3 – 1.3
Issue of shares, net of transaction costs
(2)
27.0 88.0 – – – 115.0 – 115.0
Share-based payments charge – – – 3.1 – 3.1 – 3.1
Net movement in shares held in ESOP trusts – – 3.8 (6.1) – (2.3) – (2.3)
Equity dividends – – – (52.3) – (52.3) – (52.3)
At 31 December 2015 297.5 302.9 (112.3) (28.1) (3.6) 456.4 0.1 456.5
(1) The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries.
(2) The issue of shares has been disclosed net of transaction costs of £2.6m, refer to note 27 for further details.
The notes on pages 89 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Financial statements
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
84 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
For the year ended 31 December Notes
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net cash flows from operating activities 29 136.2 130.5
Cash flows from investing activities:
Interest received 0.1 0.1
Dividends received from associates 17 – 1.2
Purchase of intangible assets (37.9) (39.8)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (28.2) (20.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment – 5.2
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired – (10.4)
Purchase of interest in joint venture 16 (2.8) (4.1)
Net cash used in investing activities (68.8) (67.9)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 113.4 0.8
Purchase of ESOP shares (0.6) (0.6)
Proceeds from borrowings, net of issue costs – 98.7
Finance lease payments (3.1) –
Repayment of borrowings (117.0) (82.0)
Dividends paid 11 (52.3) (81.4)
Net cash used in financing activities (59.6) (64.5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7.8 (1.9)
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (0.4) 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 61.0 62.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 19 68.4 61.0
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and short-term deposits 19 28.3 21.1
Customer funds 40.1 40.9
Bank overdraft – (1.0)
68.4 61.0
The notes on pages 89 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
88 ladbrokesplc.com Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 85
1 Corporate information
Ladbrokes plc (the Company) is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose 
shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
The address of its registered office and principal place of 
business is disclosed in the corporate information section of 
the Annual Report.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 
December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the directors on 22 February 2016. 
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities 
are set out in note 5.
2 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC)
pronouncements as adopted for use in the European Union and 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRSs. The accounting policies set out in this section as 
detailed have been applied consistently year on year.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention unless otherwise stated. The statements are 
also prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling (£), which is the Group’s functional and presentational 
currency. All values are in millions (£m) rounded to one decimal 
place except where otherwise indicated.
To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group 
has defined the following items of pre-tax income and expense 
as exceptional in nature:
– profits or losses on disposal, closure or impairment of non-
current assets or businesses;
– unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments; 
– corporate transaction costs;
– changes in the fair value of contingent consideration; and
– the related tax effect of these items.
Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for 
classification as exceptional by virtue of their nature and size.
The separate disclosure of these items allows a clearer 
understanding of the trading performance on a consistent and 
comparable basis, together with an understanding of the effect 
of non-recurring or large individual transactions upon the overall 
profitability of the Group.
The exceptional items have been included within the appropriate 
classifications in the consolidated income statement. Further 
details are given in note 6.
3 Changes in accounting policies
From 1 January 2015 the Group has applied, for the first time, 
certain standards, interpretations and amendments. These
include Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle and
2011-2013 Cycle and Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 
Contribution – Amendments to IAS 19. 
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on 
the current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect 
future periods. 
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group at 31 December each year. The 
underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for 
the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent 
accounting policies. Control is achieved where the Company is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee and has the ability to affect these returns 
through its power over the investee.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the acquisition method of 
accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the 
Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred from the Group. 
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair 
values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of 
assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions. 
Use of available information and application of judgement are 
inherent in the formation of estimates. Actual results in the future 
may differ from those reported. In this regard, management 
believes that the accounting policies where judgement is 
necessarily applied are those that relate to: the measurement 
and impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets; 
the measurement and accounting for business combinations; 
the measurement of pension and other post-employment benefit 
obligations; the determination of the initial fair value of betting 
and gaming transactions; the recoverable amount of trade 
receivables; income tax and the valuation of financial guarantee 
contracts. The estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate 
is revised.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
86 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Further information about key assumptions concerning the 
future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set 
out below.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets
The Group has determined that betting shop licences have 
indefinite lives (see note 13 for further details).
The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life 
intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis. 
This requires an estimation of the ‘value in use’ of the cash 
generating units to which the goodwill and intangible assets 
are allocated. Estimating a value in use amount requires 
management to make an estimate of the expected future cash 
flows from each cash generating unit and also to choose a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of 
those cash flows. Further details are given in notes 13 and 14.
Business combinations
The Group applies judgement in determining whether a 
transaction is a business combination, which includes 
consideration as to whether the Group has acquired a business 
or a group of assets.
For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of 
the consideration transferred, which includes assumptions about 
the future business performance of the business acquired and 
an appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any 
contingent consideration. Judgement is also applied in 
determining whether any future payments should be classified as 
contingent consideration or as remuneration for future services.
The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any 
separately identifiable intangible assets. These estimates also 
require inputs and assumptions including future earnings, 
customer attrition rates and discount rates. The Group 
engages external experts to support the valuation process, 
where appropriate.
The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business 
combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using 
updated inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial 
forecasts for the relevant business. Judgement is applied as to 
whether changes should be applied at the acquisition date or as 
post-acquisition changes. Further details of these judgements 
are given in note 33. Fair value movements and the unwinding 
of the discounting is recognised within operating expenses.
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post-
employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations. 
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about 
discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to 
the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject 
to significant uncertainty. Further details are given in note 30.
Betting and gaming transactions
Betting and gaming transactions are measured at the fair value 
of the consideration received or receivable from customers.
This is normally the nominal amount of the consideration but 
on certain occasions, the fair value is estimated using valuation 
techniques, taking into account the credit profile of customers 
in determining the collectability of the consideration. In addition, 
where there are indicators that any trade receivable is impaired 
at the balance sheet date, management makes an estimate of 
the asset’s recoverable amount. Further details are given in 
note 18.
Income tax
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions. 
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax 
that may be payable, and in respect of determining the level 
of the future taxable profits of the Group that support the 
recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets. Further 
details are given in note 10.
Provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions are established 
on an individual rather than portfolio basis, considering whether, 
in each circumstance, the Group considers it more likely than 
not that the uncertainty will crystalise.
Financial guarantee contracts
The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related 
indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default 
of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the 
counterparties. Further details are given in note 25.
Investments in joint ventures 
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest 
on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group 
and one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement. 
Management has assessed whether it has joint control of the 
arrangement. Joint control exists only when decisions about the 
relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties
that collectively control the arrangement. In assessing this joint 
control no significant judgements have been necessary.
The Group’s share of results of joint ventures is included in the 
Group consolidated income statement using the equity method 
of accounting. Investments in joint ventures are carried in the 
Group consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the entity less any 
impairment in value. The carrying value of investments in joint 
ventures includes acquired goodwill.
If the Group’s share of losses in the joint venture equals or 
exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not 
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do 
so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Further 
details are given in note 16.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
90 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 87
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Investments in associates
Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-
term interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the 
financial and operational policies but does not have control or 
joint control over those policies.
The Group’s share of results of associates is included in the 
Group’s consolidated income statement using the equity 
method of accounting. Investments in associates are carried 
in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
entity less any impairment in value. The carrying value of 
investments in associates includes acquired goodwill. Further 
details are given in note 17.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the separately identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate 
at the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually 
for impairment and as such, is stated at cost less any provision 
for impairment of value. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement and is not 
subsequently reversed. On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is 
allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment 
testing. Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and 
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or 
loss on disposal of the operation. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and 
those acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised 
separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured 
reliably on initial recognition. The costs relating to internally 
generated intangible assets, principally software costs, are 
capitalised if the criteria for recognition as assets are met. Other 
expenditure is charged in the year in which the expenditure is 
incurred. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be 
either finite or indefinite. Where amortisation is charged on 
assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the consolidated 
income statement through the ‘depreciation, amortisation and 
amounts written off non-current assets’ line item. Useful lives 
are reviewed on an annual basis. 
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for 
impairment annually at the cash generating unit level. 
A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible 
assets is as follows: 
Licences Software
Customer 
relationships Brand 
Domain
names
Useful lives indefinite finite finite finite finite
Method used not 
depreciated
or revalued
2-5
years straight 
line
1-15.5 
years
straight line
3-10 
years straight 
line
10 
years
straight line
Internally 
generated or 
acquired
acquired acquired and 
internally 
generated
acquired acquired acquired 
Impairment 
testing/
recoverable 
amount 
testing
annually and 
where an 
indicator of 
impairment 
exists
useful lives 
reviewed at 
each financial 
year end
where an 
indicator of 
impairment 
exists
where an
indicator of 
impairment
exists
where an
indicator of 
impairment
exists
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, with any gain 
or loss arising (calculated as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) included 
in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
Property, plant and equipment
Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value. Buildings, 
plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment in value. Depreciation is 
calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of 
each asset to its residual value over its useful economic life as 
follows: Buildings – 50 years or estimated useful life of the 
building, or lease, whichever is less, to estimated residual value.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – four to 10 years as considered 
appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment annually as to whether there are events or changes 
in circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not 
be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where the 
carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, 
the assets or cash generating units are written down to their 
recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of 
fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined 
for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement in the ‘depreciation and amounts written off non-
current assets’ line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising (calculated as the 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the item) included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year of disposal.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
88 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Leases
Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks 
and rewards associated with ownership of the leased item 
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value 
of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned 
between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability 
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly 
against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter 
of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and 
risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are 
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement 
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the 
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash 
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in 
use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or groups of assets.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in 
hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than 
three months and customer balances, net of outstanding bank 
overdrafts.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party 
to the contracts that give rise to them.
The Group classifies financial assets at inception as loans and 
receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or 
available-for-sale financial assets.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. On initial recognition, loans and receivables are 
measured at fair value net of transaction costs. Subsequently, 
the fair values are measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest method, less any allowance for impairment.
Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost. 
The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis 
and where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate 
of the asset’s recoverable amount.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise 
derivative financial instruments. Financial assets through profit 
or loss are measured initially at fair value with transaction costs 
taken directly to the consolidated income statement. 
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and 
losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Available for sale financial assets comprise equity investments 
that are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at 
fair value through profit or loss. Available for sale financial assets 
are measured initially at fair value. Subsequently, the fair values 
are remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, interest 
bearing loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, ante-
post bets, guarantees and derivative financial instruments. On 
initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value 
plus transaction costs where they are not categorised as 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include contingent 
consideration, derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets 
and guarantees.
Trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and include 
amounts due to clients representing customer deposits and 
winnings, which is offset by an equal and opposite amount 
within cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken 
directly to the consolidated income statement. Subsequently, 
the fair values are remeasured and gains and losses from 
changes therein are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement.
All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised 
at fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method.
The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties 
in respect of lease obligations of certain of the Group’s former 
subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division. Financial 
guarantee contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are 
measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the 
guarantees being called upon and the related cash outflows 
from the Group.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash 
flows from the assets has expired or when the Group has 
transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from 
the financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the 
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party, 
and either:
– substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have 
been transferred; or
– substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been 
retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is 
discharged, cancelled or expires.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
92 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 89
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross 
currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate 
swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency fluctuations. Derivative financial instruments 
are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value. The gains 
or losses on remeasurement are taken to the consolidated 
income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where 
their fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value 
is negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different 
transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same 
counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend 
to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance 
sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect 
is material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a 
finance expense.
Foreign currency translation
The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and 
the functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds 
Sterling (£).
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds
Sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. Non-monetary items that are 
measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction. 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the fair 
value was determined.
The main functional currencies of overseas subsidiaries is the 
Euro (€) and the Australian Dollar ($). At the reporting date, the 
assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated 
into Pounds Sterling (£) at the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date and their income statements are translated 
at the average exchange rates for the year. The post-tax 
exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken
directly to a separate component of equity. On disposal of a 
foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in 
equity relating to that particular foreign entity is recognised in 
the consolidated income statement.
The following exchange rates were used in 2014 and 2015:
2015 2014
Currency Average Year end Average Year end
Euro (€) 1.37 1.36 1.25 1.28
Australian Dollar ($) 2.03 2.03 1.83 1.90
Income tax
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all 
temporary differences at the balance sheet date, between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences:
– except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit; and
– associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary
differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused 
tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will 
be available against which the deductible temporary differences 
and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses 
can be utilised:
– except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor the tax profit; and
– in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax 
assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
the deductible temporary differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all 
or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income 
tax are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the 
consolidated income statement. The impact of the change in 
the current year is described in note 10.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income 
statement.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
90 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
amount of sales tax except:
– where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and 
services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in 
which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost 
of acquisition of the asset or as 
– part of the expense item as applicable; and
– receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales 
tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the 
taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables 
in the consolidated balance sheet.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group’s defined benefit pension plan, the Ladbrokes 
Pension Plan holds assets separately from the Group. The 
pension cost relating to this plan is assessed in accordance 
with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. 
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income in the period in which 
they arise.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent 
that the benefits have already vested and otherwise is amortised 
on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits 
vest. The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance 
sheet represents the fair value of scheme assets less the value 
of the defined benefit obligations as adjusted for unrecognised 
past service cost.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution schemes are 
charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to 
which the contributions relate.
In accounting for the Group’s defined benefit pension plan, it is 
necessary for management to make a number of estimates and 
assumptions each year. These include the discount rates, future 
changes to salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life 
expectancy. In making these estimates and assumptions,
management considers advice provided by external advisers, 
such as actuaries. Where actual experience differs to these 
estimates, actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in 
equity. Refer to note 30 for details of the values of assets and 
obligations and key assumptions used.
Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be 
utilised during the life of the plan to address member benefits, 
the Group recognises its pension surplus in full on the basis that 
it does not consider there to be substantive restrictions on the 
return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the 
plan after all member obligations have been met. The related tax 
is accounted on an income basis.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Treasury shares
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are 
deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or 
loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s 
own equity instruments.
ESOP trusts
Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP 
trusts these shares are shown as a reduction in equity. 
Any consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale 
of these shares is shown in the reconciliation of movements 
in shareholders’ funds and no gain or loss is recognised 
within the consolidated income statement or the statement 
of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or 
cancellation of these shares.
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid 
at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements 
until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Revenue
The Group reports the gains and losses on all betting and 
gaming activities as revenue, which is measured at the fair value 
of the consideration received or receivable from customers less 
free bets, promotions, bonuses and other fair value adjustments. 
Gross win includes free bets, promotions and bonuses.
For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Core Telephone 
Betting, mobile betting, High Rollers, Digital businesses 
(including sportsbook, betting exchange, casino, games, other 
number bets), revenue represents gains and losses, being the 
amounts staked and fees received, less total payouts. Open 
betting positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses 
arising on these positions are recognised in revenue.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income 
(rake) earned from poker games completed by the year end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income 
arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the year,
including sales of refreshments, net of VAT.
Finance expense and income
Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial 
instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate 
method. Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that 
are an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial 
instrument, including issue costs, and the amortisation of any 
other differences between the amount initially recognised and 
the redemption price. All finance expenses are recognised over 
the availability period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
94 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 91
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Net gains and losses in respect of mark to market adjustments 
on financial instruments carried at fair value, foreign exchange 
adjustments and net gains and losses on financial guarantees 
are included in exceptional items in the consolidated income 
statement.
Share-based payment transactions
Certain employees (including directors) of the Group receive 
remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange 
for shares or rights over shares (equity settled transactions).
The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference 
to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. Further 
details of which are given in note 31. In valuing equity settled 
transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, 
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 
Ladbrokes plc (market conditions).
The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit in 
equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are 
fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award (vesting date). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity settled transactions at each 
reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, 
in the opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based 
on the best available estimate of the number of equity 
instruments, will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market 
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether 
or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per 
share as shown in note 12.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an 
employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable 
options to executives and senior employees. 
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are 
treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet 
as a deduction from equity. Refer to consolidated statement of 
changes in equity.
Future accounting developments
The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet 
effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial 
statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt 
these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. 
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the 
following set out below:
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, 
measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities 
was issued in July 2015. IFRS 9 retains and establishes three 
primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised 
cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L. The 
basis of the classification depends on the business model and 
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. 
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured 
at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at 
inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling. 
There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces 
the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial 
liabilities there were no changes to classification and 
measurement except for the recognition of changes in own 
credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities 
designated at fair value through profit or loss. The standard is 
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group is yet to assess 
IFRS 9’s full impact.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with 
revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting
useful information to users of financial statements about the 
nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash 
flows arising from an entity's contracts with customers. IFRS 15 
will only impact revenue that is it not governed by IAS 39. 
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a 
good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and 
obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard 
replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’
and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier 
adoption is permitted. The Group is assessing the impact of 
IFRS 15.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ sets out the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. The 
objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant 
information in a manner that faithfully represents those 
transactions. IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease 
liability reflecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ 
for virtually all lease contracts. This information gives a basis for 
users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases 
have on the financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows of the entity. The standard replaces IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and 
related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier 
adoption is permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15 at or before 
the date of initial application of IFRS 16. The Group is assessing 
the impact of IFRS 16.
IFRS 9, 15 and 16 are yet to be EU endorsed.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not 
yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact 
on the Group.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
92 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
5 Segment information
The Group’s operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors (who are collectively considered to
be the Chief Operating Decision Maker) to make strategic decisions, and allocate resources.
The performance of the Group’s segments is assessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided. IFRS 8 
requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and 
allocating resources, and the Group’s operating segments are aggregated into the five reportable segments detailed below:
– UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain.
– European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Ireland (Northern and Republic of), Belgium and Spain (JV) shop 
estates.
– Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations which includes Ladbrokes.com, Ladbrokes 
Australia, Betdaq, Belgium online and Spain (JV) online.
– Core Telephone Betting: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone, excluding High Rollers.
– High Rollers: comprises activities primarily relating to bets taken on the telephone from High Rollers. 
The Board continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, profit before tax and 
net finance expenses. This measurement basis excludes the effect of exceptional items (income or expenditure) from the operating 
segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. 
2015
UK 
Retail 
£m
European 
Retail 
£m
Digital 
£m
Core 
Telephone
Betting 
£m
High 
Rollers
£m
Total 
£m
Segment revenue 827.4 119.8 242.8 5.5 4.0 1,199.5
Segment profit/(loss) before exceptional items 116.1 14.5 (23.8) (2.2) 3.3 107.9
Exceptional items (note 6) (27.5) (49.9) (3.7) (0.2) – (81.3)
Segment profit/(loss) 88.6 (35.4) (27.5) (2.4) 3.3 26.6
Corporate costs
(1)
(42.0)
Profit before tax and net finance expense (15.4)
Net finance expense (27.8)
Profit before tax (43.2)
Income tax credit 48.3
Profit for the year 5.1
Other disclosures:
Share of results from joint venture and associates
(2)
4.3 1.0 (0.9) – – 4.4
Depreciation and amortisation
(2)
(37.6) (7.1) (31.2) (0.3) – (76.2)
Capital expenditure
(2)
37.0 8.7 28.8 – – 74.5
(1) Corporate costs include exceptional items.
(2) Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable 
segments of £0.4 million loss, £1.2 million, and £1.2 million, respectively.
2014
UK 
Retail 
£m
European Retail 
£m
Digital 
£m
Core Telephone 
Betting 
£m
High 
Rollers 
£m
Total 
£m
Segment revenue 811.5 122.1 215.1 10.2 15.7 1,174.6
Segment profit/(loss) before exceptional items 119.3 13.0 14.0 2.0 14.2 162.5
Exceptional items (note 6) (41.4) (6.9) (29.4) – – (77.7)
Segment profit/(loss) 77.9 6.1 (15.4) 2.0 14.2 84.8
Corporate costs
(1)
(18.6)
Profit before tax and net finance expense 66.2
Net finance expense (28.5)
Profit before tax 37.7
Income tax expense 3.3
Profit for the year 41.0
Other disclosures:
Share of results from joint venture and associates
(2)
1.2 0.1 (1.7) – – (0.4)
Depreciation and amortisation
(2)
(39.3) (7.7) (29.5) (0.4) – (76.9)
Capital expenditure
(2)
20.0 6.9 31.9 0.2 – 59.0
(1) Corporate costs include exceptional items.
(2) Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable 
segments of £0.2 million profit, £0.8 million, and £0.7 million, respectively.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
96 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 93
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
5 Segment information continued
Geographical information
Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows:
2015 2014
Revenue 
£m
Non-current 
assets
(1)
£m
Revenue 
£m
Non-current
assets
(1)
£m
United Kingdom 1,030.7 716.7 998.3 785.8
Rest of the world 168.8 179.7 176.3 177.9
Total 1,199.5 896.4 1,174.6 963.7
(1) Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
6 Exceptional items
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Impairment loss
(1)
(58.3) (44.5)
Loss on closure
(2)
(19.8) (30.7)
Corporate transaction costs
(3)
(17.6) (0.5)
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration
(4)
(0.2) 3.1
European indirect tax liability
(5)
3.5 (5.7)
Examinership costs
(6)
(3.8) –
Early termination of contract
(7)
(3.1) –
Exceptional finance income/(charge) 0.3 (1.1)
Digital – exit costs – (3.8)
Net pension curtailment gain – 4.8
Profit on sale and leaseback – 3.9
Total before tax (99.0) (74.5)
Exceptional tax credit 13.3 8.9
Exceptional items after taxation (85.7) (65.6)
(1) Impairment loss of £58.3 million comprises a £51.8 million impairment of shop licences, impairment of £1.4 million of shop assets and a £5.1 million asset 
impairment of which £4.9 million relates to software. The total £53.2 million shop impairment has arisen as a result of the annual licence impairment review 
and includes a £13.5 million charge in UK Retail and a £39.7 million charge in European Retail (Ireland). The £5.1 million asset impairment relates to assets
no longer in use.
(2) The £19.8 million loss on closure includes a £13.4 million loss on closure of UK Retail shops and a £6.4 million loss on closure of European Retail shops. 
These include a loss on disposal of intangible assets of £7.8 million, a loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment of £5.3 million and cost accruals 
of £6.7 million.
(3) The Group incurred corporate transaction costs of £17.6 million in relation to the proposed merger with the Coral Group.
(4) The fair value of the contingent consideration in respect of the business combinations with Playtech and Betdaq has been remeasured at 31 December 
2015. This resulted in an overall charge to the income statement of £0.2 million.
(5) At 31 December 2014 a provision was made for a liability arising from European indirect tax changes. A subsequent settlement has been agreed which 
has resulted in an exceptional credit of £3.5 million.
(6) Legal and redundancy costs of £3.8m in relation to the Examinership in Republic of Ireland. 
(7) Early settlement of a contractual agreement with an affiliate in Australia. 
Operating expenses include corporate transaction costs, the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration, the provision for 
gaming European indirect tax liability, Examinership costs, the early termination of contract and £6.7 million of costs relating to the 
shop closures. 
In addition to the defined exceptional items set out in note 2 the Group considered the credits arising on the reversal of the provision 
for European indirect tax liability, Examinership costs and early termination of contract to be of sufficient materiality to be separately 
identified and of a nature unrelated to the underlying trading performance of the Group in the year. 
The cash flow effect of the exceptional items was an outflow of £25.1 million in the year. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
94 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
7 Profit before tax and net finance expense
Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items has been arrived at after charging:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Gross profits tax, Betting tax and Machine Games Duty 183.6 160.0
Point of consumption tax 28.1 2.1
Salaries and payroll-related expenses (note 9) 284.3 278.4
Property expenses 131.3 137.1
Content and levy expenses 124.3 125.7
Marketing expenses 103.8 82.4
Software and geographical partners 23.4 18.5
Other operating expenses 163.4 152.9
Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation 1,042.2 957.1
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Audit and audit-related services:
Audit of the parent Company and Group financial statements 0.4 0.3
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.3
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 –
0.7 0.6
Non-audit services:
Tax advisory services 0.1 –
Corporate finance services
(1)
1.6 –
Other non audit services 0.3 0.5
2.0 0.5
Total fees 2.7 1.1
(1) Fees for corporate finance services relate to due diligence and investment circular work in connection with the proposed merger with certain businesses of 
the Coral group. 
8 Finance expense and income
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (1.4) (3.3)
Bonds at amortised cost (23.1) (20.6)
Finance charges payable under finance leases (0.2) –
Fee expenses (3.5) (3.6)
Total finance expense (28.2) (27.5)
Interest receivable 0.1 0.1
Total finance income 0.1 0.1
Net finance expense before exceptional items (28.1) (27.4)
Exceptional finance expense (0.1) (1.1)
Exceptional finance income 0.4 –
Net finance expense after exceptional items (27.8) (28.5)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
98 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 95
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
9 Staff costs
The average weekly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
UK Retail 11,955 11,823
European Retail 1,276 1,404
Digital 766 696
Telephone Betting 134 123
Central services 100 95
14,231 14,141
The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2015 was 14,340 (2014: 13,954).
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 256.3 251.1
Social security costs 20.1 20.2
Pension costs (note 30) 3.8 4.3
Share-based payments (note 31) 4.1 2.8
284.3 278.4
In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group. Eligibility for benefits is normally 
determined primarily according to an employee’s length of service and level of responsibility. The amounts of some benefits are 
proportionate to individual salary.
Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits. The latter can cover private healthcare 
for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover. Company cars, 
including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are:
(i) Pensions
Ladbrokes Pension Scheme (LPS)
Under the auto-enrolment legislation, employees meeting the statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the 
LPS, a defined contribution scheme. The contributions paid by the Group and employees meet those statutorily required. 
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to match their 
contributions up to specified limits. For the majority of employees the maximum match is 6% of base salary. The maximum 
match is higher for some employees, depending upon grade and pensionable service.
Ladbrokes Pension Plan (LPP)
This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and closed to benefit built up from 31 August 2015, at which date all 
active members were offered membership of the LPS. Members contributed on average six per cent of pensionable salary per 
annum (executives contributed on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum). Calculated to 31 August 2015, 
members and Executive Section members received deferred pension benefits (including contingent death benefits) under the 
LPP based on their service, accrual rates and Final Pensionable Salary linked to their pension histories. Benefit generally accrued
to provide a target pension of half (for joiners before June 2002: two thirds) of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining 
age 65 with at least 40 years’ membership. A spouse’s pension is payable following death. See note 30 for further details.
LPP – Executive Section
Members contribute on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum. Benefit accrued to provide a target pension 
from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years’ membership 
(for joiners before June 2002, employees attaining age 60 with at least 20 years’ service). A spouse’s and children’s pensions are 
payable following death.
LPP incorporated an Earnings Cap on Pensionable Salary. Executive directors and senior executives, for whom this applies, had
a choice between:
(i) membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in excess of 
the Earnings Cap; or
(ii) a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
(ii) Share-based payments
Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 51 to 71
that forms part of the Annual Report 2015.
Details of options granted in 2015 and outstanding at 31 December 2015 are shown in note 31. Details of directors’ 
remuneration can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 63.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
96 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
10 Income tax expense
Analysis of (credit)/charge for the year:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current income tax:
– UK (0.7) 8.7
– overseas 0.5 2.2
– adjustments in respect of previous years
(1)
(35.6) (13.4)
Deferred tax:
– relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (5.5) (3.8)
– tax rate reduction – –
– adjustments in respect of previous years
(1)
(7.0) 3.0
Income tax credit reported in the income statement (48.3) (3.3)
Deferred tax charged/(credited) directly to other comprehensive income 0.6 (2.7)
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense 
for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax (43.2) 37.7
Corporation tax (credit)/charge thereon at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (8.7) 8.1
Adjusted for the effects of:
– Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 8.3 (0.7)
– Recognition of tax losses (8.1) (10.4)
– Non-deductible expenses 3.7 3.6
– Non-deductible expenses included in exceptional items 6.8 7.0
– Tax rate reduction (7.0) –
– Other (0.7) (0.5)
Adjustments in respect of prior years
– Resolution of historical tax matters and utilisation of previously unrecognised losses against 
profits of previous years
(1)
(29.3) (9.4)
– Adjustment of deferred tax in respect of previous years (7.0) 3.0
– Overseas current tax adjustments
(2)
(4.3) –
– Other prior year movements
(1)
(2.0) (4.0)
Income tax credit (48.3) (3.3)
Reported as:
– (credit)/expense in consolidated income statement (before exceptional items) (35.0) 5.6
– credit in consolidated income statement (tax on exceptional items) (note 6) (13.3) (8.9)
Income tax credit (48.3) (3.3)
(1) The 2015 prior year adjustment arises from a decision to recognise the offset of historic losses. This, together with the recognition of current year losses 
and other movements has resulted in a c£40 million tax receivable. The greater part of this will be received in 2016.
(2) This relates to a reassessment of a provision.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
100 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 97
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
10 Income tax expense continued
Deferred tax
Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following:
Consolidated 
balance sheet
Consolidated 
income statement
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.4 0.3 0.1 (0.1)
Licences 47.4 61.1 (13.7) 4.9
Fair value adjustments on acquisitions
(1)
6.6 9.2 (2.4) (5.2)
Retirement benefit asset
(1)
13.7 13.8 (0.7) 2.9
Deferred tax liabilities 68.1 84.4
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (10.2) (3.7) (6.5) (3.7)
Losses (3.6) (13.6) 10.0 –
Share-based payments (1.2) (2.4) 1.2 0.4
Other temporary differences (1.1) (0.6) (0.5) –
Deferred tax assets (16.1) (20.3)
Deferred tax credit (12.5) (0.8)
Amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet:
Deferred tax liabilities 52.7 64.1
Deferred tax assets (0.7) –
Net deferred tax liability 52.0 64.1
(1) The movement in the deferred tax liabilities in relation to the fair value adjustments on acquisitions and the retirement benefit asset include a £0.2 million 
movement in relation to foreign exchange and a £0.6 million movement charged directly to other comprehensive income, respectively.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had £33.6 million (2014: £76.5 million) of unrecognised deferred tax assets, relating to 
losses, the utilisation of which is not likely at the current time. This is because the losses are within loss making holding 
companies which are not anticipated to make future profits. There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries.
The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014. This was further reduced to 20% from 
1 April 2015. Accordingly, the Company’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 20.25%. It was also 
announced that the standard rate of UK Corporation Tax will be reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017, with a further 
reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 18%. Although the 
reduction to 18% is effective from 1 April 2020, this was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
11 Dividends
Pence per share
2015 
pence
2014 
pence
Interim dividend paid 1.0 4.3
Final dividend proposed 2.0 4.6
3.0 8.9
A final dividend of 2.0 pence (2014: 4.6 pence) per share, amounting to £20.4 million (2014: £42.1 million) in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2015 was declared by the directors on 22 February 2016. The total amount payable in respect of the final 
dividend is based on the expected number of shares in issue on 24 March 2016. The 2015 interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share 
(£10.2 million) was paid on 12 November 2015.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
98 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
12 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company 
of £5.1 million (2014: £41.0 million) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 966.4 million 
(2014: 921.4 million).
At 31 December 2015, there were 1,018.3 million 28
1/3
pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares (1,050.0 million 
including treasury shares). At 31 December 2014, 922.9 million 28
1/3
pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 
(954.6 million including treasury shares).
At 31 December 2015, 6.2 million (2014: 5.8 million) shares were deemed anti-dilutive for the purpose of calculating adjusted 
earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items is included as it provides a better understanding of the 
underlying performance of the Group. Exceptional items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in note 6.
Profit from operations and Group
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit attributable to shareholders 5.1 41.0
Exceptional items net of tax (note 6) 85.7 65.6
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 90.8 106.6
Weighted average number of shares (millions)
2015 2014
Shares for basic earnings per share 966.4 921.4
Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 5.8 2.5
Shares for diluted earnings per share 972.2 923.9
Before exceptional items After exceptional items
Earnings per share (pence)
2015 2014 2015 2014
Basic earnings per share 9.4 11.6 0.5 4.4
Diluted earnings per share 9.3 11.5 0.5 4.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
102 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 99
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
13 Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Licences 
£m
Software 
£m
Customer 
relationships, 
brand and 
domain 
names 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 138.6 540.2 196.1 50.0 924.9
Exchange adjustment (3.5) (3.3) 0.1 (1.3) (8.0)
Additions 11.3 0.4 42.9 – 54.6
Additions from business combinations 8.0 – – 4.6 12.6
Disposals – (12.8) – – (12.8)
Reclassifications 4.8 (4.8) – – –
At 31 December 2014 159.2 519.7 239.1 53.3 971.3
Exchange adjustment (2.0) (2.4) (0.2) (0.4) (5.0)
Additions – 0.6 40.8 – 41.4
Disposals – (12.3) (0.6) – (12.9)
Reclassifications – (0.4) (1.6) – (2.0)
At 31 December 2015 157.2 505.2 277.5 52.9 992.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 – 54.1 91.1 9.0 154.2
Exchange adjustment – (0.4) (0.1) – (0.5)
Amortisation charge – 0.2 28.4 5.2 33.8
Impairment charge – 18.7 23.1 – 41.8
At 31 December 2014 – 72.6 142.5 14.2 229.3
Exchange adjustment – (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) (0.5)
Amortisation charge – 0.2 32.4 5.2 37.8
Impairment charge – 51.8 6.3 – 58.1
Disposals – (3.6) (3.2) – (6.8)
Reclassifications – 1.0 (0.4) – 0.6
At 31 December 2015 – 121.8 177.4 19.3 318.5
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 159.2 447.1 96.6 39.1 742.0
At 31 December 2015 157.2 383.4 100.1 33.6 674.3
Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net assets of business combinations including the deferred tax 
liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions. 
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences. The acquired betting shop licences are not amortised as they are 
considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons:
– Ladbrokes is a leading operator in well-established markets;
– there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services;
– existing law acts to restrict entry; and
– Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software together with 
software acquired as part of business combinations. 
The customer relationships intangible assets relate to the Group’s acquisition of its former partner in the Nordic region, acquisitions 
in the prior years of Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty and Betstar Pty. 
Brand and domain names intangible assets relate to the Group’s acquisitions prior years of Betdaq, Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 
and Betstar Pty.
Refer to notes 6 and 14 for details of the impairment charge.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
100 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets
Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying 
amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts (being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use).
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units (CGUs) expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. If the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the group of 
CGUs and any goodwill allocated to that group of CGUs would be regarded as not impaired. The carrying amounts of goodwill by 
segment are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Goodwill
UK Retail 35.4 35.4
European Retail 11.6 12.7
Digital 110.2 111.1
157.2 159.2
No impairments were identified in both years.
Licences
Licences have been allocated to the individual UK and European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets. Each
CGU represents the lowest level within the Group at which the licences are monitored for internal management purposes which in
the majority of instances is an individual shop. Where the cash flows of one or more shops are not entirely independent, these are
grouped to form a CGU. The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2015 was £383.4 million (2014: £447.1 million) allocated as
£264.4 million to UK Retail (2014: £284.5 million) and £119.0 million to European Retail (2014: £162.6 million).
Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. These are based on budgets approved by the 
Board for the next four years extrapolated thereafter using a 2% growth rate (2014: 1%) for UK Retail and Digital and 1-2% growth 
rate for European Retail (2014: 1%). This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The key assumptions taken into account by management are the net cash flows (which are impacted by amounts staked and gross 
win margin) and the discount rate applied. The estimated amounts staked and gross win margin are based upon historic experience, 
management’s best estimate of future trends and performance taking account of industry sources. The pre-tax discount rate applied 
to cash flow projections for CGUs in UK Retail is 10.9% (2014: 10.8%), in European Retail is between 9.9% and 10.9% (2014: 
between 9.4% and 10.4%) and in Digital is 8.5% (2014: 9.6%).
The recoverable amounts of certain individual UK Retail CGUs were below their carrying amounts at 31 December 2015 and 
accordingly an impairment loss of £21.1 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 
31 December 2015 (2014: £26.8 million) offset by impairment reversals of £7.6 million within the ‘Depreciation, amortisation and 
amounts written off non-current assets’ line as an exceptional item. In respect of European Retail shop licences there has been 
a charge of £40.2 million for year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £13.1 million) offset by impairment reversals of £0.5 million 
(2014: £10.0 million). 
The recoverable amount of individual CGUs is sensitive to changes in cash flows, growth rates or discount rate. Change in the cash 
flow projections or the discount rate would trigger a further impairment loss. For example, an increase of 0.5% in the pre-tax 
discount rate would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately £3.9 million (2014: £7.9 million) for UK Retail and 
£3.6 million (2014: £3.2 million) for European Retail, or a reduction in projected cash flows of 5% would have resulted in an additional 
impairment loss of approximately £3.8 million (2014: £4 million) for UK Retail and £4.4 million (2014: £3.3 million) for European Retail. 
An assumption of no growth after 2019 would have resulted in an increase in impairment loss of approximately £11.1 million for UK 
Retail and £9.5 million for European Retail. For Digital, no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in an 
impairment.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
104 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 101
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
15 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 141.5 453.7 595.2
Exchange adjustment (1.0) (3.5) (4.5)
Additions 2.8 13.6 16.4
Disposals (6.1) (9.9) (16.0)
Reclassifications 3.2 (3.2) –
At 31 December 2014 140.4 450.7 591.1
Exchange adjustment (0.8) (3.5) (4.3)
Additions 3.2 31.1 34.3
Disposals (4.7) (13.2) (17.9)
Reclassifications 3.8 (1.8) 2.0
At 31 December 2015 141.9 463.3 605.2
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 89.3 281.4 370.7
Exchange adjustment (0.5) (2.3) (2.8)
Depreciation charge 12.0 31.9 43.9
Disposals (3.3) (7.5) (10.8)
Impairment charge 1.0 1.7 2.7
At 31 December 2014 98.5 305.2 403.7
Exchange adjustment (0.6) (2.1) (2.7)
Depreciation charge 10.2 29.4 39.6
Disposals (2.9) (10.0) (12.9)
Impairment charge 0.1 0.1 0.2
Reclassifications – (0.6) (0.6)
At 31 December 2015 105.3 322.0 427.3
Net book value
At 31 December 2014 41.9 145.5 187.4
At 31 December 2015 36.6 141.3 177.9
At 31 December 2015, the Group had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of any property, plant and 
equipment (2014: £nil). 
Included within fixtures, fittings and equipment are assets in the course of construction, which are not being depreciated, of 
£2.4 million (2014: £3.9 million). This comprises mainly shop refurbishment programmes in the UK.
Land and buildings includes an investment property with a net book value of £2.4 million (2014: £2.4 million). 
Leased assets
Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cost 12.2 –
Accumulated depreciation (1.0) –
Net book value 11.2 –
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
102 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
16 Interest in joint venture
Share of joint 
venture’s net 
assets 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 6.5
Exchange adjustment 0.1
Additions 4.1
Share of loss after tax (1.6)
At 31 December 2014 9.1
Exchange adjustment (0.5)
Additions 2.8
Share of profit after tax 0.1
At 31 December 2015 11.5
The joint venture is the Group’s investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA, an online and retail gaming business in Spain,
in which it holds a 50% equity interest (note 33). Summarised financial information in respect of the joint venture’s net assets is 
set out below:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current assets 30.0 24.4
Cash and cash equivalents 7.8 5.2
Other current assets 2.2 1.6
Current assets 10.0 6.8
Current financial liabilities – –
Other current liabilities (16.8) (12.8)
Current liabilities (16.8) (12.8)
Non-current financial liabilities – –
Other non-current liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Non-current liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Joint venture’s net assets 23.0 18.2
Group’s share of joint venture’s net asset (50%) 11.5 9.1
Summarised statement of comprehensive income 
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue 54.6 35.2
Finance income – –
Depreciation and amortisation (4.2) (3.8)
Other operating expenses (50.2) (36.0)
Finance expense – –
Income tax expense – 1.4
Profit/(loss) for the year 0.2 (3.2)
Other comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive profit/(loss) 0.2 (3.2)
Group’s share of the total comprehensive profit/(loss) 0.1 (1.6)
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA is a private 
company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
106 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 103
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
17 Interest in associates and other investments
Share of 
associates’ 
net assets 
£m
Other 
investments 
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 16.8 0.7 17.5
Share of profit after tax 1.4 – 1.4
Additions – 0.3 0.3
Dividends received (1.2) – (1.2)
At 31 December 2014 17.0 1.0 18.0
Exchange adjustment – – –
Share of profit after tax 3.9 – 3.9
Share of other comprehensive loss (0.6) – (0.6)
At 31 December 2015 20.3 1.0 21.3
Associates
Summarised financial information in respect of the associates is set out below:
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Associates’ current assets 103.5 65.8
Associates’ non-current assets 53.7 77.7
Associates’ current liabilities (66.3) (65.5)
Associates’ non-current liabilities (2.8) (5.3)
Associates’ net assets 88.1 72.7
Group’s share of associate net assets 20.3 17.0
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Associates’ revenue for the year 230.9 234.4
Associates’ profit for the year 17.8 5.9
Associates’ other comprehensive income (2.5) (0.3)
Associates’ total comprehensive income 15.3 5.6
Group’s share of associates’ total comprehensive income 3.3 1.4
Further details of the Group’s associates are listed in note 33.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (SIS), an associate of the Group, is 31 March. 
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015. SIS is a private company and there 
is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Other investments
Other investments of £1.0 million consist of investments in ordinary shares, which therefore have no fixed maturity rate or 
coupon rate.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
104 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
18 Trade and other receivables
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Trade receivables 5.2 7.5
Other receivables 10.8 5.5
Prepayments 37.5 44.2
53.5 57.2
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms. Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on 
an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers. Impaired receivables, 
including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account. Impaired receivables are derecognised 
when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
At 31 December 2015, trade receivables with an initial fair value of £1.0 million (2014: £0.6 million) were provided for in full. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 0.6 2.3
Increases in provision 0.6 –
Utilised (0.2) (1.7)
At 31 December 1.0 0.6
At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due but not impaired
Total 
£m
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired 
£m
<30 
days 
£m
30-60 
days 
£m
60-90 
days 
£m
90+ 
days 
£m
2015 5.2 3.1 0.1 – – 2.0
2014 7.5 2.7 2.2 0.4 0.2 2.0
19 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 28.3 21.1
Customer funds 40.1 40.9
Bank overdraft – (1.0)
Total cash and cash equivalents 68.4 61.0
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or 
less, customer funds and overdrafts. The customer funds are matched by liabilities of an equal value.
20 Trade and other payables
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade payables 48.4 52.7
Other payables
(1)
40.2 35.4
Other taxation and social security
(1)
70.3 43.4
Accruals 83.5 74.4
242.4 205.9
(1) In 2015 other taxation and social security has been represented to include betting and gaming duty. In 2014 this was included in other payables 
(£30.8 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
108 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 105
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
21 Provisions
Vacant 
property
provision
(1)
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 3.6 0.2 3.8
Provided 9.7 0.2 9.9
Utilised (2.3) – (2.3)
Released – – –
At 31 December 2014 11.0 0.4 11.4
Provided 9.5 1.7 11.2
Utilised (3.6) – (3.6)
Released – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 16.9 1.9 18.8
(1) The periods of vacant property commitments range from one to 14 years (2014: one to 12 years).
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2015, £9.2 million (2014: £6.4 million) is current and £9.6 million (2014: £5.0 million) 
is non-current.
22 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Non-current 
Bank facilities – 117.0
7.625% bonds due 2017 224.2 223.6
5.125% bonds due 2022 98.9 98.7
323.1 439.3
Committed bank facilities, which are denominated in Pounds Sterling, mature on 13 June 2019. There were no drawings under 
these facilities at 31 December 2015 (2014: £23.0 million expiring on 1 December 2016, £94.0 million expiring on 13 June 2019). 
Drawings under these facilities had an average interest rate of 2.5% in 2015 (2014: 2.4%). 
£55.0 million of committed bank facilities were cancelled in the year. This leaves the total of £350.0 million of committed bank 
facilities (2014: £405.0 million) at 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December 2015, the committed bank facilities maturities are £350.0 million (2014: £350.0 million) on 13 June 2019 and 
£nil (2014: £55.0 million) on 1 December 2016.
The Group has total undrawn committed bank facilities of £346.8 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £283.0 million).
The Group had a £nil (2014: £0.4 million) overdraft denominated in Euros at 31 December 2015. All of the Group’s remaining 
borrowings in 2015 and 2014 were denominated in Pounds Sterling.
23 Lease liabilities
Commitments in relation to finance leases are payable as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Within one year 4.9 –
Later than one year but not later than five years 4.8 –
Later than five years – –
Minimum lease payments 9.7 –
Future finance charges (0.4) –
Total lease liabilities 9.3 –
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
106 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
23 Lease liabilities continued
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Within one year 4.9 –
Later than one year but not later than five years 4.4 –
Later than five years – –
Minimum lease payments 9.3 –
24 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, 
foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Group’s treasury exposures to 
reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and 
cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments. The main purpose of these financial instruments 
is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade 
payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations. At 31 December 2015 and at 31 December 2014 the Group had no 
significant derivatives.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken 
other than betting and gaming transactions. The Group’s exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for 
managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all 
financial instruments.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Group’s policy for the year ended 31 December 2015 was to maintain a minimum of 25% (2014: 25%) of total borrowings at 
fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates. At 31 December 2015, £323.1 million 
or 100% (2014: £322.3 million or 73.4%) of the Group’s gross borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is repriced at intervals of less than six months. Interest on financial instruments at 
fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year
when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity
Effect on:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
100 basis points increase 1.1 0.1 – –
200 basis points increase 2.2 0.2 – –
The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, 
subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end. Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not 
have a material impact on income and equity for the year. As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
Foreign currency risk
Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The Group had no other foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2015 (2014: £0.4 million overdraft denominated in Euros). 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
110 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 107
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
24 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk
The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties 
and customers.
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, 
receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior 
management on an individual basis.
The Group’s High Rollers division consists of individuals who place sizeable stakes. The Group manages this activity and the 
associated risk exposure by utilising senior management expertise to manage the levels of stakes placed. Of the £5.2 million 
(2014: £7.5 million) trade receivables balance, £1.9 million (2014: £3.2 million) relates to the Group’s Core Telephone Betting and 
High Rollers divisions.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan 
to a joint venture, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the 
carrying amount of these instruments. Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those 
transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group. This risk is partly 
mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees. For 
further detail of these guarantees refer to note 25.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a 
range of maturities. The Group’s policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed 
borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements. At 31 December 2015, there were undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities of £346.8 million (2014: £283.0 million). Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 3.5 years 
(2014: 4.1 years).
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows. 
Cash flows in respect of financial guarantee contracts reflect the probability weighted cash flows. The maximum exposure is 
described in note 25.
2015
On demand 
or within 
1 year 
£m
1-2 years 
£m
2-5 years 
£m
> 5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22.3 238.7 15.4 107.7 384.1
Other financial liabilities 2.1 0.4 47.3 6.3 56.1
Trade and other payables 242.0 – – – 242.0
Total 266.4 239.1 62.7 114.0 682.2
2014
On demand 
or within 
1 year 
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total 
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 26.1 48.1 349.3 112.8 536.3
Other financial liabilities 4.1 11.2 46.5 8.7 70.5
Trade and other payables 205.5 – – – 205.5
Total 235.7 59.3 395.8 121.5 812.3
Capital risk management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit quality that enables the Group to 
raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise 
shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. 
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, adjusted borrowings, return 
capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio (before exceptional items). The target range is less than 2.0
(2014: less than 2.0) times net debt to EBITDA ratio. The ratio at 31 December 2015 was 1.9 times (1.9 adjusted to remove 
profit from High Rollers) and at 31 December 2014 was 1.9 times (2.1 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers).
The Group’s funding policy is to raise funds centrally to meet the Group’s anticipated requirements. These are planned so 
as to mature at different stages in order to reduce refinancing risk. The Board reviews the Group’s capital structure and 
liquidity periodically.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
108 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures 
Other financial liabilities
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Contingent consideration 32.3 32.1
Financial guarantee contracts 3.2 4.8
Deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued – 1.1
Other 0.1 5.6
35.6 43.6
Of the total other financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 £nil (2014: £1.1 million) is current and £35.6 million (2014: £42.5 million) 
is non-current.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial instruments into their relevant categories:
31 December 2015
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Loans at 
amortised 
cost 
£m
Assets/
(liabilities) 
at fair value 
through
profit loss
£m
Available
for sale 
financial 
assets 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets
Non-current:
Other financial assets 1.4 – – 3.4 4.8
Current:
Trade and other receivables 16.0 – – – 16.0
Derivatives – – 0.2 – 0.2
Cash and short-term deposits (including customer funds) 68.4 – – – 68.4
Total 85.8 – 0.2 3.4 89.4
Liabilities
Current:
Trade and other payables – (236.7) (5.3) – (242.0)
Obligations under finance leases – (4.9) – – (4.9)
Non-current:
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – (323.1) – – (323.1)
Other financial liabilities – – (35.5) – (35.5)
Obligations under finance leases – (4.4) – – (4.4)
Total – (569.1) (40.8) – (609.9)
Net financial assets/(liabilities) 85.8 (569.1) (40.6) 3.4 (520.5)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
112 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 109
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued
31 December 2014
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Loans at 
amortised 
cost 
£m
Assets/
(liabilities) 
at fair value 
through
profit loss
£m
Available
for sale 
financial 
assets 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets
Non-current:
Other financial assets 1.4 – – 3.4 4.8
Current:
Trade and other receivables 13.0 – – – 13.0
Cash and short-term deposits (including customer funds) 62.0 – – – 62.0
Total 76.4 – – 3.4 79.8
Liabilities
Current:
Bank overdraft – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Trade and other payables – (200.2) (5.3) – (205.5)
Other financial liabilities – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Non-current:
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – (439.3) – – (439.3)
Other financial liabilities – (5.6) (36.9) – (42.5)
Total – (646.1) (43.3) – (689.4)
Net financial assets/(liabilities) 76.4 (646.1) (43.3) 3.4 (609.6)
Fair value of financial instruments
Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value. 
The fair value of cash at bank and in hand approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity. The fair value of the 
£225 million 7.625% bond at 31 December 2015 was £239.7 million (2014: £244.3 million) and is classified as a level 1 fair value 
measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities. 
The fair value of the £100 million 5.125% bond at 31 December 2015 was £98.3 million (2014: £100.2 million) and is classified as a 
level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for 
identical liabilities. The amortised cost of interest bearing loans and borrowings, with the exception of the £225 million 7.625% bond 
and the £100 million 5.125% bond, and the carrying value of all other assets and liabilities approximates to fair value.
Fair value hierarchy
The following tables illustrate the Group’s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after initial recognition at 31 December
2015 and 31 December 2014:
2015
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets measured at fair value
Derivatives – 0.2 – 0.2
Other financial assets – – 3.4 3.4
Total – 0.2 3.4 3.6
Liabilities measured at fair value 
Ante-post liabilities – – (5.3) (5.3)
Other non-current financial liabilities – – (35.5) (35.5)
Total – – (40.8) (40.8)
Net liabilities measured at fair value – 0.2 (37.4) (37.2)
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
110 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued
2014
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets measured at fair value
Other financial assets – – 3.4 3.4
Liabilities measured at fair value 
Ante post liabilities – – (5.3) (5.3)
Other current financial liabilities – – (1.1) (1.1)
Other non-current financial liabilities – – (36.9) (36.9)
Total – – (43.3) (43.3)
Net liabilities measured at fair value – – (39.9) (39.9)
Included within other financial assets is the Group’s investment in TBHG, a financial asset measured at initial fair value of £3.4 million 
on 28 February 2013 which was acquired in connection with the business combination with Betdaq. There have been no changes in 
the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2015.
Included in trade and other payables are £5.3 million of ante-post liabilities (2014: £5.3 million). Ante post liabilities are valued 
using methods and inputs that are not based upon observable market data. There are no reasonably probable changes to 
assumptions or inputs that would lead to material changes in the fair value determined, although the final value will be determined 
by future sporting results. The principal assumptions relate to anticipated gross win margins on unsettled bets. 
Included within other non-current financial liabilities is contingent consideration associated with business combinations of 
£32.3 million (2014: £32.1 million), classified as level 3 financial instruments, as its fair value is measured using techniques where 
the significant inputs are not based on observable market data. The fair values are remeasured at each reporting date and gains 
and losses from changes therein are recorded in the consolidated income statement within exceptional items (note 6). 
Betdaq
Betdaq contingent consideration is linked to the performance of the business over a four year period and is capped at €535.0 
million. The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the balance sheet 
date. The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are the EBITDA projections of the Betdaq business for 2016, the predicted 
Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2016 (9.8x) and the discount rate applied (13.5%). All of these assumptions have been applied on 
a probability-weighted basis. 
The contingent consideration is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections 
would result in an increase in contingent consideration of £1.5 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an 
increase in contingent consideration of less than £0.1 million. A decrease in the EBITDA multiple of 2x would result in a decrease in 
contingent consideration of £0.2 million.
Playtech
The fair value of the contingent consideration in relation to Playtech has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the 
balance sheet date. The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections of the Digital business for 
2017, which are based on the projections in place at the time of the acquisition and then updated with an estimated uplift for the 
benefits of the transaction, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2017 (9.8x); and the discount rate applied (a range of 
13.7% to 20.7%, depending on the year). All of these assumptions have been applied on a probability-weighted basis.
The contingent consideration is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections 
would result in an increase in contingent consideration of £12.6 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an 
increase in contingent consideration of £1.3 million. An increase of 1x in the EBITDA multiple would increase the contingent 
consideration by £3.5 million.
Other
Also included within other non-current financial liabilities are financial guarantee contracts of £3.2 million (2014: £4.8 million), 
classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based 
on observable market data. Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of 
changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
114 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 111
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued
Financial guarantee contracts
The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels 
division. The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation (HHC), at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation 
to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees. The guarantees expire between 2017 and 
2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements. 
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all years up to 2042 is £560.8 million 
(2014: £679.6 million), with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount. Included in the maximum liability exposure 
is £402.1 million (2014: £434.8 million) in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and £158.7 million 
(2014: £244.8 million) in relation to the minimum contractual based element. The maximum liability represents the total of 
all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2015 is £210.3 million (2014: £258.7 million). Included in the 
net present value of the maximum exposure is £141.4 million (2014: £149.1 million) in relation to the turnover based element of 
the hotel rentals and £68.9 million (2014: £109.6 million) in relation to the minimum contractual based element. 
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities 
payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants 
being identified. 
At 31 December 2015 the Group has recognised a financial liability of £3.2 million (2014: £4.8 million) in respect of these guarantees. 
The liability has reduced in 2015 as a result of the Group being released from its obligations for one of its hotels, the liability of which 
was due to expire in 2029. The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate. A rate of 1.5% has been used at 
31 December 2015 (2014: 1.5%). The £1.6 million credit has been included within the Group’s corporate costs. The table below 
provides a breakdown of the movement in the liability since 1 January 2015:
Liability 
£m
At 1 January 2015 4.8
Reduction due to release from one hotel guarantee (1.6)
At 31 December 2015 3.2
A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by £1.0 million. A 1.0 percentage point 
increase in the discount rate would reduce the financial liability by £0.2 million.
26 Net debt
The components of the Group’s net debt are as follows:
Notes
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Current assets
Cash and short-term deposits
(1)
19 28.3 21.1
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 19 – (1.0)
Current obligations under finance leases 23 (4.9) –
Non-current liabilities
Non-current obligations under finance leases 23 (4.4) –
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 (323.1) (439.3)
Net debt (304.1) (419.2)
(1) Customer funds are not included in the Group’s net debt.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
112 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
27 Issued share capital
Number of 28 ⅓p
ordinary shares
Total
£m
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 2014 951,165,221 269.5
During the year 3,460,108 1.0
At 31 December 2014 954,625,329 270.5
Issued during the year
(1), (2)
95,387,740 27.0
At 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 297.5
(1) During the year, the following fully paid shares of 28 ⅓ pence each were issued: 387,459 shares on allocation of shares under the 2010 Share Award Plan, 
2,259,944 shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, 61,734 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme,
299,923 shares under the OWN Plan.
(2) In addition to the above, the Group completed a placing of 92,378,680 new ordinary shares at 125 pence each on 24 July 2015. The net proceeds of the 
placing was £112.9 million – consisting of the gross proceeds of £115.5 million net of the associated transactions costs of £2.6 million. The net proceeds 
of the placing were allocated as £26.2 million to the share capital account and £86.7 million to the share premium account.
Number of 28 ⅓p
ordinary shares
Shares issued at 31 December 2014 954,625,329
Treasury shares (31,760,568)
Shares issued at 31 December 2014 excluding treasury shares 922,864,761
Shares issued at 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069
Treasury shares (31,760,568)
Shares issued at 31 December 2015 excluding treasury shares 1,018,252,501
28 Employee share ownership plans
The Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust (LSOT) is used in connection with the Group’s Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth 
Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan (together ‘the Plans’) (refer to note 
31 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions). The LSOT may also be used in connection with the 
Group’s other share-based plans, including the 1978 and 1983 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme. 
The trustee of the LSOT, Computershare Trustees (CI) Limited, subscribes for the Group’s shares or purchases them in the open 
market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by 
the Group.
The Ladbrokes Share Incentive Plan (LSIP) is currently used in connection with the Group’s OWN share plan (the OWN plan) and 
Freeshare share plan (Freeshare) (refer to note 31 for further details). The trustee of the LSIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, 
purchases the Company’s shares in the open market, as required, using: 
(i) Deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan; and 
(ii) Dividends paid on the shares held by the LSIP. Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants’ 
salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Group to the LSIP for every one share purchased by the employee.
All expenses of the LSOT and LSIP are settled directly by the Group and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated movement 
in shareholders’ funds.
LSOT LSIP Total
Shares 
held
Number 
Cost of 
shares 
£m
Shares 
held
Number 
Cost of 
shares 
£m
Shares 
held
Number 
Cost of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 2015
(1)
7,661,052 10.4 865,143 0.4 8,526,195 10.8
Shares purchased/allotted 600,000 0.6 486,021 0.3 1,086,021 0.9
Vested in year (3,882,972) (4.3) (305,734) (0.3) (4,188,706) (4.6)
At 31 December 2015 4,378,080 6.7 1,045,430 0.4 5,423,510 7.1
Market value of shares in trusts 5.2 1.3 6.5
(1) Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Group in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees (CI) Limited 
under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
116 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 113
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
29 Notes to the statement of cash flows
Reconciliation of profit to net cash inflow from operating activities:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax and net finance expense (15.4) 66.2
Adjustments for:
Non cash exceptional items 74.2 65.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 39.6 43.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 37.8 33.8
Share based payments charge 4.1 2.8
Increase in other financial assets (3.8) (1.3)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 3.4 (3.7)
Decrease in other financial liabilities (3.1) (11.3)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 38.6 (27.9)
Decrease in provisions (1.4) –
Contributions to retirement benefit scheme (3.6) (8.9)
Share of results from joint venture (0.1) 1.6
Share of results from associates (3.9) (1.4)
Other items (1.2) (0.2)
Cash generated by operations 165.2 159.0
Income taxes paid (2.3) (2.1)
Finance expense paid (26.7) (26.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities 136.2 130.5
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
114 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
30 Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes
The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement of £3.8 million (2014: £3.1 million) represents contributions payable 
to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s only significant defined benefit retirement plan is the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, which is a final salary pension plan for 
UK employees. This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and closed to future accrual on 31 August 2015.
At retirement each member’s pension is related to their pensionable service and final pensionable salary. The weighted average 
duration of the expected benefit payments from the Plan is around 17 years.
The Plan’s assets are held separately from those of the Group. The Plan is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is managed 
by an independent set of Trustees. The Plan is subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustees to agree a funding 
strategy and contribution schedule at least every three years. Under the current contribution schedule in place, the Group pays 
contributions to the Plan of £0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan and will pay £0.125 million each month 
from April 2016 to June 2017.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to 
recover any deficit that arises.
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2013 were updated to 31 December 2015 by an independent qualified 
actuary in accordance with IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits. The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost 
have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19 (Revised). Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Present value of funded obligations (283.2) (296.3)
Fair value of plan assets 359.5 365.8
Net asset 76.3 69.5
Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 76.3 69.5
The Group has considered the appropriate accounting treatment in respect of the pension plan surplus, taking into account the
current agreement with the Trustees to pay contributions into the Plan. The Group has concluded that under current accounting
rules recognition of the surplus as an asset is appropriate on the grounds that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of 
a current (or projected future) surplus at the end of the life of the Plan.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs 
Current service cost (excluding employee element) 1.6 2.8
Administrative expenses 1.0 1.0
Net interest on net asset (2.6) (2.6)
Pension curtailment gain
(1)
– (7.1)
Total (credit) recognised in the income statement in staff costs – (5.9)
(1) The pension curtailment gain was included within exceptional items in the income statement.
The actual return on plan assets over the year was a gain of £4.1 million (2014: gain of £48.2 million). 
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Actual return on assets less interest on plan assets (8.6) 33.8
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligation due to changes in financial assumptions 8.6 (30.6)
Changes in demographic assumptions – (3.9)
Experience adjustments on benefit obligation 3.2 2.3
Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 1.6
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
118 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 115
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
30 Retirement benefit schemes continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January (296.3) (268.8)
Current service cost (excluding employee element) (1.6) (2.8)
Employee contributions (0.5) (0.7)
Interest on obligation (10.1) (11.8)
Actuarial gains/(losses) due to changes in financial assumptions 8.6 (30.6)
Changes in demographic assumptions – (3.9)
Experience adjustments on obligations 3.2 2.3
Benefits paid 13.5 12.7
Pension curtailment gain – 7.3
At 31 December (283.2) (296.3)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 365.8 321.9
Interest on plan assets 12.7 14.4
Administration expenses (1.0) (1.0)
Actual return less interest on plan assets (8.6) 33.8
Contributions by the sponsoring companies 3.6 8.9
Employee contributions 0.5 0.7
Benefits paid (13.5) (12.7)
Running costs relating to pension scheme curtailment – (0.2)
At 31 December 359.5 365.8
The Group expects to contribute £1.8 million to its defined benefit plan in 2016.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2015 
%
2014 
%
Equities and Diversified Growth Funds 65 62
LDI (%) 19 24
Cash 16 14
100 100
The Plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the 
holdings in an insurance policy. At 31 December 2015 these represented c.0.2% of the Plan’s total assets. 
The Plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group. Although, as the 
Plan holds pooled investment vehicles, there may at times be indirect employer related investment. At 31 December 2015 these
represented less than 0.1% of the Plan’s total assets.
The investment strategy is set by the Trustees of the Plan in consultation with the Group. The current long-term strategy is to invest 
in a matching portfolio sufficient to meet the next 15 years of cash flows with the remaining assets invested in return seeking funds.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages where appropriate):
2015
% p.a.
2014
% p.a.
Discount rate 3.7 3.5
Price inflation (CPI/RPI) 2.0/3.0 2.0/3.0
Future salary growth n/a 3% p.a. in 2015
Future pension increases – LPI 5% (CPI)
– LPI 3% (RPI)
– LPI 2.5% (CPI)
2.1
2.3
1.7
2.1
2.3
1.7
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
116 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
30 Retirement benefit schemes continued
The post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2012 
projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience. The assumption used 
implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2015 is 87.0 (2014: 86.9) years for males and 89.2 (2014: 89.1) years 
for females. For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed (90.1 (2014: 90.1) for males and 91.2 (2014: 91.1) 
for females). 
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income 
statement in respect of the Plan. For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the
impact on the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2015:
2015 
%
2014 
%
– 0.5% p.a. decrease in the discount rate 8.1 8.3
– 0.5% p.a. increase in price inflation 5.0 5.2
– One year increase in life expectancy 2.6 2.4
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other
changes in market conditions at the accounting date. This is unlikely in practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to 
occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
31 Share-based payments
The Group has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Restricted Share Plan; the Deferred 
Bonus Plan; the Performance Share Plan; the Ladbrokes Growth Plan; the International Share Option Scheme; the 1978 Share 
Option Scheme; Sharesave; the OWN Plan; and Freeshare. The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in 
more detail below:
(i) Restricted Share Plan
Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan will vest after three years and are not subject to performance conditions, other than 
service conditions.
(ii) Deferred Bonus Plan
For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years. For other 
employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
(iii) Performance Share Plan
An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement 
of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period. The awards have two separate performance conditions; 
half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
(iv) Ladbrokes Growth Plan
Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions. Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 
30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period. Up to one third of the award may vest at the end 
of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time. A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets 
have been met at that time. The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the 
performance targets.
(v) International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme
The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period. Vested options lapse if they have not been 
exercised within 10 years of the date of grant. All options have an EPS growth based performance condition. Options have not been
granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
(vi) 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘Sharesave’)
Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value. The scheme operates with a savings period of either three 
or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
(vii) OWN Plan
Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to £75 per month to acquire shares. For every one share purchased, the Group 
provides a match of one additional share.
(viii) Freeshare
Under Freeshare, an award of up to £250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one year’s service. Freeshares 
have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
120 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 117
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
31 Share-based payments continued
The following table sets out the number of share awards outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, 
lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted 
Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Ladbrokes Growth Plan and 2010 Share Award Plan.
Restricted Share 
Plan
Deferred Bonus 
Plan
Performance 
Share Plan
Ladbrokes
Growth Plan
2010 Share Award 
Plan Total
Outstanding at 1 January 2015
(1)
1,894,388 842,380 14,113,998 11,035,680 1,177,103 29,063,549
Granted 3,331,890 – 6,769,395 – – 10,101,285
Reinstated – – 29,145 353,828 – 382,973
Dividend equivalent awards – – – 795,945 387,459 1,183,404
Lapsed (380,441) (39,570) (6,575,355) (8,096,077) – (15,091,443)
Vested/Exercised (368,552) (729,753) – (3,902,508) (1,564,562) (6,565,375)
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 4,477,285 73,057 14,337,183 186,868 – 19,074,393
(1) The number of awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 for the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and the Ladbrokes Growth Plan were 
incorrectly stated in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. The outstanding awards at 1 January 2015 for these three plans as disclosed above have 
therefore been restated. 
Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan:
2015 2014
Number 6,769,395 6,826,422
Weighted average fair value £0.96 £0.93
The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date 
and the vesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a 
Monte Carlo simulation.
The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options granted, exercised and lapsed during 
the year in respect of the 1978 and International Share Option Schemes and also Sharesave:
1978 and 
International 
Schemes Sharesave
2015 
Number
2015 
WAEP – £
2014 
Number
2014 
WAEP – £
Outstanding at 1 January 1,788,414 3,985,947 5,774,361 1.85 5,629,931 2.01
Granted – 3,255,308 3,255,308 0.92 2,298,754 1.17
Reinstated – 784 784 0.92 – –
Exercised – (61,734) (61,734) 1.13 (480,142) 1.20
Lapsed (687,213) (2,076,856) (2,764,069) 1.54 (1,674,182) 2.18
Outstanding at 31 December
(2)
1,101,201 5,103,449 6,204,650 1.51 5,774,361 1.69
Exercisable at 31 December 1,101,201 571,777 1,672,978 2.71 2,177,898 2.82
(2) Of the 6,204,650 share options outstanding at 31 December 2015, 1,877,285 (31 December 2014: 5,436,956) are at a price above the year end share 
price of 119.7 pence (31 December 2014: 110.5 pence). The total value of these shares is £4.9 million (2014: £10.2 million).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £1.11 (2014: £1.35). The 
weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 25.0 pence (2014: 33.0 pence). The weighted average remaining 
contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2015 is between two and three years (2014: between two and 
three years). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £0.91 – £3.60 (2014: £1.10 – £3.60).
At 31 December 2015, there were 2,743,200 options outstanding with an exercise price below £1.00, 2,368,579 options 
outstanding with an exercise price between £1.01 and £2.00, 6,752 options outstanding with an exercise price between £2.01
and £3.00, and 1,086,119 options outstanding with an exercise price between £3.01 and £3.60.
At 31 December 2014, there was no options outstanding with an exercise price below £1.00, there were 3,994,227 options 
outstanding with an exercise price between £1.10 and £2.00, 589,271 options outstanding with an exercise price between £2.01 
and £3.00, and 1,190,863 options outstanding with an exercise price between £3.01 and £3.60.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
118 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
31 Share-based payments continued
The key inputs into the valuation models were as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average share price (£) 1.11 1.35
Weighted average exercise price (£) 0.92 1.17
Expected volatility (%) 32.0 32.0
Expected life (years) 2.2 2.10
Risk free rate (%) 0.79 1.10
Expected dividend yield (%) 7.3 5.9
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £4.1 million (2014: £2.8million) relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
32 Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating 
lease agreements. These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings. The terms of the leases vary significantly but can 
broadly be summarised as follows:
Lease terms
Shop leases are typically agreed on five year exit cycles (either expiry or break), with a maximum term length of 15 years. Some 
leases are shorter in duration or with earlier exits.
Determination of rent payments
Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal
The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options 
have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor at market 
rates.
Restrictions
There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing 
lease arrangements.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Minimum lease payments 68.9 68.3
Analysis of minimum lease payments by division:
2015
£m
2014 
£m
UK Retail 58.8 57.4
European Retail 8.8 9.8
Digital 1.3 1.1
Total 68.9 68.3
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Within one year 60.5 64.9
After one year but not more than five years 147.8 168.7
After five years 58.0 88.8
Total 266.3 322.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
122 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 119
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
32 Commitments and contingencies continued
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor
The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate. These non-cancellable leases have 
remaining lease terms of between one and nine years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the year:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Minimum lease receipts 2.9 2.4
Future minimum annual rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Within one year 0.3 0.6
After one year but not more than five years 1.0 0.9
After five years 0.5 0.4
1.8 1.9
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries 
amounting to £325.0 million (2014: £442.0 million). There have been no loan guarantees given by subsidiaries in the normal course 
of business to other subsidiary companies (2014: £nil). Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries with a value of
£5.9 million (2014: £8.5 million) and the joint venture with a value of £8.9 million (2014: £7.7 million).
33 Related party disclosures 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries. The companies listed 
below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December.
Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom
% equity interest
Company 2015 2014
Arbiter & Weston Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Bartletts Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Birchgree Limited
(1), (3), (4)
100.0 100.0
Chequered Racing Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Competition Management Services Co. Limited
(4)
97.5 97.5
E.F. Politt & Son Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Forestal Land, Timber and Railways Company Limited (The)
(4)
100.0 100.0
Gable House Estates Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ganton House Investments Limited 100.0 100.0
Greatmark Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Hillford Estates Limited
(4)
97.5 97.5
Hindwain Limited 100.0 100.0
J. Ward Hill & Company
(4)
100.0 100.0
Jack Brown (Bookmaker) Limited 100.0 100.0
Jerusalem Development (Mamilla) Co. Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Jerusalem Development Corporation (Holdings) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Krullind Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke & Co., Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke (Course) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke (Rentals) Limited 100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Corporate Director Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Corporate Secretaries Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Dormant Holding Company Limited
(1), (3), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Entertainments Limited
(1), (3)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Group
(3), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Group Homes Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
120 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
33 Related party disclosures continued
Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom continued
Ladbroke Group International
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Group Properties Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Land Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Leasing (South East) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Racing (Reading) Limited
(3), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Racing (South East) Limited
(3)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Retail Parks Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke US Investments Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes (CLJEA) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes (CLJHC) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes (CLJSW) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes (Northern Ireland) (Holdings) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes (Northern Ireland) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited
(2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Contact Centre Limited
(3)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Coral Limited
(3)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes CPCB Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes E-Gaming Limited
(1)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Group Finance plc
(1), (2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Investments Holdings Limited
(3), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes IT & Shared Services Limited
(1)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Life Benefits Trustee Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes PT Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Trustee Company Limited 100.0 100.0
London & Leeds Estates Limited
(4)
93.5 93.5
Maple Court Investments Limited
(3)
100.0 100.0
Margolis and Ridley Limited 100.0 100.0
Moffat Lodge Motor Inn Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
New Angel Court Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
North West Bookmakers Limited 100.0 100.0
Paddington Casino Limited
(1), (4)
100.0 100.0
Sabrinet Limited 100.0 100.0
Sponsio Limited 100.0 100.0
Techno Land Improvements Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Town and County Factors Limited
(1)
100.0 100.0
Travel Document Service 100.0 100.0
Ventmear Limited 100.0 100.0
Vernons Competitions Company 100.0 100.0
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
124 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 121
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
33 Related party disclosures continued
Subsidiaries based overseas
Country of incorporation Company
% equity interest
2015 2014
Australia Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Digital Australia Pty Ltd
(2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Operations Australia Pty Ltd
(4)
100.0 100.0
LB Australia Holdings Pty Ltd
(1)
100.0 100.0
Panda Gaming Pty Ltd 100.0 100.0
Belgium ALL BETS SPRL 100.0 –
ALMAK SPRL 100.0 –
BURAK SPRL 100.0 –
Ladbroke Belgium S.A.
(1)
100.0 100.0
Lucky Bets SPRL 100.0 –
N.V. Derby S.A.
(1)
100.0 100.0
PARI BENELUX SPRL 100.0 –
Pari Mutuel Management Services S.A. 100.0 100.0
Tierce Ladbroke S.A.
(1), (2)
100.0 100.0
British Virgin Islands Creative Trend Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
CTL Holdings International Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
SRL Holdings International Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Sunrise Resources Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Cayman Islands Cayman Investments Number 1
(4)
100.0 100.0
International Finance Investment
(4)
100.0 100.0
Denmark Ladbrokes ApS 100.0 100.0
Sponsio Denmark A/S 100.0 100.0
Gibraltar Balltree (International) Limited 100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes International plc
(2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership
(2)
100.0 100.0
Guernsey Exchange Platform Solutions Limited 100.0 100.0
Hong Kong Ladbrokes Lottery (Asia) Co. Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ireland Ace Racing Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Dara Properties Limited 100.0 100.0
Gossamer Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Harney Bookmakers Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Keenan Sport & Leisure Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke (Ireland) Limited
(2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Leisure (Ireland) Limited
(2)
100.0 100.0
Ladbroke Services (Ireland) Limited 100.0 100.0
Ladbrokes Payments (Ireland) Limited 100.0 –
M D Betting Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Israel Ladbrokes Israel Limited
(1), (2)
100.0 100.0
Jersey IHF (Jersey) Limited 100.0 100.0
Ladbroke (Channel Islands) Limited
(4)
100.0 100.0
Maple Court Investments (Jersey) Limited 100.0 100.0
South Africa Ladbrokes (SA) (Pty) Ltd
(1)
60.0 60.0
Spain Ladbrokes Betting and Gaming Spain, S.A. 100.0 100.0
Sweden Ladbrokes AB 100.0 100.0
Sponsio Norden AB 100.0 100.0
United States Ladbrokes Holdco, Inc.
(1)
100.0 100.0
Stadium Technology Group LLC 79.0 79.0
(1) Directly owned by Ladbrokes plc.
(2) Companies that form part of the Group as at 31 December 2015 and which in the opinion of the directors principally affected the Group’s reported results 
for the year.
(3) The Group will be exempting the indicated companies from an audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in 
these financial statements.
(4) Dormant and holding companies.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 122
33 Related party disclosures continued
Joint Ventures
Country of incorporation Company
% equity interest
2015 2014
Mexico Digital Gaming Mexico S.A.P.I.* 50.0 50.0
Panama Sportium Apuestas Panama* 50.0 –
Spain Cirsa Digital S.A.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apostes Catalunya S.A.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Deportivas, S.A. 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Aragon, S.L.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Asturias S.A.U.* 50.0 –
Sportium Apuestas Canarias S.L.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Castilla La Mancha S.L.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Galicia, S.L.U* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Levante, S.A.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Melilla S.L.U.* 50.0 –
Sportium Apuestas Navarra S.A.U* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Apuestas Oeste S.A.U.* 50.0 50.0
Sportium Zona Norte S.A.U.* 50.0 50.0
Other Associates
Country of incorporation Company
% equity interest
2015 2014
China Asia Gaming Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd* 49.0 49.0
Asia Gaming Technologies (Tianjin) Co., Ltd* 49.0 49.0
Hong Kong Asia Gaming Technologies Limited 49.0 49.0
United Kingdom 49's Limited 33.3 33.3
Games For Good Causes PLC 36.3 36.3
Lucky Choice Limited 33.3 33.3
Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited 23.4 23.4
* Subsidiary of Sportium Apuestas Deportivas, S.A. in Spain.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
126 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 123
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
33 Related party disclosures continued
Other than its associates and joint venture, the related parties of the Group are the executive directors, non-executive directors and 
members of the Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are
disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Equity investment
– Joint venture
(1)
2.8 4.1
Loans
– Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner – (1.6)
– Movement in loan balance with joint venture 0.1 –
Dividends received
– Associates
(2)
– 1.2
Sundry expenditure
– Associates
(3)
52.1 51.0
(1) Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
(2) Dividend received from Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited.
(3) Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited.
Details of related party outstanding balances
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Loan balances outstanding
– Joint venture 0.6 0.5
Other receivables outstanding
– Associates 1.6 1.4
– Joint venture 1.6 1.2
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at market prices and in the ordinary course of business. Outstanding 
balances at 31 December 2015 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash. For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group 
has not raised any provision (2014: £nil) for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has 
been good. This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the 
market in which the related party operates.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
124 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
33 Related party disclosures continued
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
The remuneration of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related 
Party Disclosures. Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive 
Committee. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled £2.1 million (2014: £1.8 million), is 
provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 71.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.9 3.1
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5
Termination benefits 1.4 0.2
Share-based payments 2.6 2.4
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 7.5 6.2
Directors’ interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors’ remuneration 
report.
34 Proposed merger with Coral
Ladbrokes plc and Gala Coral Group Limited have agreed terms of a recommended merger (the “Merger”) of Ladbrokes with certain
businesses of Gala Coral, including Coral Retail, Eurobet Retail and Gala Coral’s Online business to create a leading European
betting and gaming group that is better positioned to compete more effectively (the “Combined Entity”).
Funding
In October 2015 the Group signed a £1.35 billion facility with a syndicate of relationship banks to provide committed financing for 
the proposed merger.
The new facility has three tranches and will be available for drawing subject to completion of the merger with Coral.
– Tranche A – £600 million Term Facility - October 2016 and, subject to extension options, January 2018
– Tranche B – £400 million Revolving Credit Facility – October 2020
– Tranche C – £350 million Revolving Credit Facility – June 2019
The Group's remaining standalone £350 million June 2019 bank facilities will be cancelled as a condition precedent to drawing on 
the new facility. 
Cash costs of £3.8 million in relation to the new facility have been capitalised within financial assets.
Playtech Agreement
To assist in the flexibility for the Combined Entity to achieve integration and realise synergies, Playtech plc has agreed conditional 
upon completion, to accelerate the determination of amounts due to it under its marketing services agreement with Ladbrokes. 
The sum agreed is £75 million, of which £40 million shall be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in the Combined Entity on 
completion of the Merger and with a further guaranteed £35 million in cash paid upon the delivery by Playtech of key operational 
milestones but, in any event, within 42 months following completion of the Merger.
35 Subsequent events
There were no material subsequent events that required adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
128 ladbrokesplc.com Financial statements
Company financial statements contents
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 125
130 Company balance sheet
131 Notes to the Company financial statements
131 1 General information
131 2 Basis of preparation
131 3 Summary of significant accounting policies
133 4 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
134 5 Dividends
134 6 Investments in subsidiaries
135 7 Trade and other receivables
135 8 Trade and other payables
135 9 Deferred tax
136 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies
136 11 Share capital
137 12 Reconciliation of movements in equity
137 13 Employee share ownership plans
137 14 Retirement benefit schemes
137 15 Contingencies
138 16 Related party transactions
139 17 Transition to FRS 101
140 18 Subsequent events
Company financial statements contents
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 Financial statements
Company balance sheet
126 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
At 31 December Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 7 2,264.0 3,893.9
Retirement benefit asset 76.3 69.5
2,340.3 3,963.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 8 2.2 0
Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 2.6
4.5 2.6
Total assets 2,344.8 3,966.0
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 9 (1,025.9) (2,272.8)
(1,025.9) (2,272.8)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 9 (3.9) (9.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (12.5) (11.4)
(16.4) (20.9)
Total liabilities (1,042.3) (2,293.7)
Net assets 1,302.5 1,672.3
Shareholders’ equity
Issued share capital 12 297.5 270.5
Share premium 13 302.9 214.9
Treasury and own shares 13 (112.3) (116.1)
Capital reserve 13   0.1 0.1
Retained earnings 13 814.3 1302.9
Total shareholders’ equity 1,302.5 1,672.3
The notes on pages 131 to 140 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2016.
Jim Mullen
Ian Bull 
Directors
Company balance sheet
130 ladbrokesplc.com Notes to the Company financial statements
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 127
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
1 General information
Ladbrokes Plc (‘the Company’) is a limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address 
of its registered office and principal place of business is 
disclosed in the Directors’ report.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 
31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the directors on 22 February 2016.
The parent Company loss for the year was £430.3 million 
(2014: loss of £155.8 million (restated)).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from 
preparing a cash flow statement under paragraph 8(g) of the 
disclosure exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS for qualifying 
entities included in Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework (FRS 101). The Ladbrokes plc 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 
December 2015 contain a consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company is exempt under paragraph 8(k) of the disclosure 
exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS included in FRS 101 for 
qualifying entities from disclosing related party transactions 
with entities that form part of the Ladbrokes plc group of which
Ladbrokes plc is the ultimate parent undertaking.
The Company’s financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling (£), which is also the Company’s functional currency, 
and all values are rounded to the nearest million (£m) except 
when otherwise indicated. The Company’s financial statements 
are individual entity financial statements.
2 Basis of preparation
The Company transitioned to FRS 101 ‘Reduced disclosure 
framework’. Figures for comparative periods have been restated 
with details of adjustments set out in note 17.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with 
FRS 101 and Companies Act 2006. The financial statements 
are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost 
convention except for certain financial liabilities measured at 
fair value. 
The accounting policies which follow in note 3 set out those 
policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2015 and have been applied 
consistently to all years presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure 
exemptions under FRS 101 in respect of:
(a) IFRS 3 Business Combinations;
(b) the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures;
(c) IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
(d) Share-based payments
(e) Intra-Group-related party transactions;
(f) Related party transactions.
Income statement
For details of audit fees, see note 7 of the consolidated 
financial statements.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
income statement and the statement of comprehensive income
of the parent Company have not been separately presented in 
these financial statements.
3 Summary of significant accounting policies 
Investments 
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision 
for impairment.
As at 1 January 2014, in accordance with Paragraph D15 of 
IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards’ (IFRS 1) Appendix D, the Company has measured 
all investments at a deemed cost, being the previous GAAP 
carrying amount as at this date.
The Company assesses these investments for impairment 
wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable. If any 
such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an 
estimate of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount 
is less than the value of the investment, the investment is 
considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
profit and loss account.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet consist of 
cash at banks and in hand, short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of less than three months.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes 
party to the contracts that give rise to them.
The Company classifies financial assets at inception as either 
financial assets at fair value or loans and receivables. On initial 
recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value. 
Financial assets at fair value comprise guarantees provided to 
the Company. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken 
directly to income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are 
remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are 
recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. On initial recognition, loans and receivables are
measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequently, such assets are measured at amortised cost, 
using the effective interest (EIR) method, less any allowance 
for impairment.
Notes to the Company financial statements
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
128 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
3 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise guarantees given to third parties and 
contingent consideration. On initial recognition, financial liabilities 
are measured at fair value plus transaction costs where they are 
not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken 
directly to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values 
are remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are 
recognised in the income statement.
Financial guarantee contracts
The Company has provided financial guarantees to third parties 
in respect of lease obligations of certain of the Company’s 
former subsidiaries relating to the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee contracts are classified as financial liabilities 
and are measured at fair value by estimating the probability of 
the guarantees being called upon and the related cash outflows 
from the Company.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash 
flows from the assets has expired or when the Company has 
transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from 
the financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the 
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party, 
and either:
– Substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred; or
– Substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been 
retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is 
discharged, cancelled or expires.
Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred 
tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in shareholders’ funds. In this case, the tax is 
also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
shareholders’ funds, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the 
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date in the countries where the Company operates and 
generates taxable income. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It 
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill; or arise from initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the tax rates (and laws) 
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance 
sheet date and are expected to apply then the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is 
settled. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent it 
is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which 
they can be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets 
and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable 
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a 
net basis. Deferred tax balances are not discounted. 
Foreign currency translation
The presentation and functional currency of the Company is 
Pounds Sterling (£).
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds 
Sterling (£) at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated into Pounds Sterling (£) at 
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date (the 
closing rate).
All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the 
income statement with the exception of differences on foreign 
currency borrowings that provide a post-tax hedge against a net 
investment in a foreign entity. These are taken directly to equity 
until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are 
recognised in the income statement. Tax charges and credits 
attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are 
also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rate at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was 
determined.
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the Board of directors and unpaid 
at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements 
until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
132 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 129
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
Pensions and other post-employment benefit 
obligations
The Company is the principal employer of the Ladbrokes 
Pension Plan, a funded defined benefit group plan. The pension 
cost relating to the plan is assessed in accordance with the 
advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method.
Any actuarial gains or losses are taken to equity in the period 
in which they arise. Any past service costs are recognised 
immediately to the extent that benefits have already vested and, 
otherwise, are amortised on a straight line basis over the 
average period until the benefits vest.
The defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value 
of defined benefit obligations as adjusted for any unrecognised 
past service costs. The Company recognises its pension 
surplus in full on the basis that it does not consider there 
to be substantive restrictions on the return of residual plan 
assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member 
obligations have been met. The related tax is accounted on an 
income basis.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
ESOP trusts
Where the Company holds its own equity shares through an 
ESOP trust these shares are shown as a reduction in equity. Any 
consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of these 
shares is recognised as deductions in equity and no gain or loss 
is recognised within the income statement or the statement of 
total recognised gains and losses on the purchase, sale or
cancellation of these shares.
Treasury shares
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) 
are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the 
income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation 
of the Company’s own equity instruments.
Share-based payments
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is 
measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which 
they are granted (see note 31 of the consolidated financial
statements for further details).
The cost of equity settled transactions is recharged to the 
respective employing entities, with a corresponding increase 
in equity booked within Ladbrokes plc.
4 Judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management 
to make assumptions, estimates and judgements that affect 
the amounts reported as assets and liabilities as at the balance 
sheet date and the amounts reported as revenues and expenses 
during the year. Use of available information and application of 
judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates. Actual 
results in the future may differ from those reported. In this 
regard, management believes that the accounting policies 
where judgement is necessarily applied are those that relate to: 
– the cost of pension and other post employment benefit 
obligations; 
– income tax;
– contingent consideration; and
– valuation of financial guarantee contracts.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised. The 
following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which 
could change in the next financial year and have a material effect 
on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at 
the balance sheet date:
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post-
employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations. 
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about 
discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to 
the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject 
to significant uncertainty.
Financial guarantee contracts
The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related 
indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default 
of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the 
counterparties. 
Income tax
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes due to the uncertainty of the amount of income tax 
that may be payable, and in respect of determining the level of 
the future taxable profits of the Company that support the 
recoverability of the deferred tax asset. 
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
130 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
5 Dividends
Pence per share
2015 
pence
2014 
pence
Interim dividend paid 1.0 4.3
Final dividend proposed
(1)
2.0 4.6
3.0 8.9
(1) A final dividend of 2.0 pence (2014: 4.6 pence) per share, amounting to £20.4 million (2014: £42.1 million) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 
was declared by the directors on 22 February 2016. The total amount payable in respect of the final dividend is based on the expected number of shares 
in issue on 24 March 2016. The 2015 interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share (£10.2 million) was paid on 12 November 2015.
6 Investments in subsidiaries
Shares in 
Group 
companies 
£m
Unlisted 
investments at 
cost 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014
(1)
3,968.2 10.2 3,978.4
Additions 46.5 – 46.5
Disposals (38.6) – (38.6)
At 31 December 2014 3,976.1 10.2 3,986.3
Impairment provision
At 1 January 2014 – – –
Provided in the year
(2)
92.4 – 92.4
At 31 December 2014 92.4 – 92.4
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 3,968.2 10.2 3,978.4
At 31 December 2014 3,883.7 10.2 3,893.9
Cost
At 1 January 2015 3,976.10 10.2 3,986.3
Additions
(3)
9.1 – 9.1
Disposals
(4)
(1,639.0) – (1,639.0)
At 31 December 2015 2,346.2 10.2 2,356.4
Impairment provision
At 1 January 2015 92.4 – 92.4
At 31 December 2015 92.4 – 92.4
Net book value
At 1 January 2015 3,883.7 10.2 3,893.9
At 31 December 2015 2,253.8 10.2 2,264.0
(1) As at 1 January 2014, in accordance with Paragraph D15 of IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ (IFRS 1) 
Appendix D, the Company has measured all investments at a deemed cost, being the previous GAAP carrying amount as at this date. On this basis, as 
at 1 January the accumulated impairment balance (£3,659.9 million) been netted off against the cost of the shares in Group companies (£7,628.1 million).
(2) The Company had provided against three of its subsidiaries following the annual impairment review.
(3) Additions of £9.1 million for additional subscription of 19.3 million shares in LB Australia Holdings Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the Company.
(4) Disposals of £1,639 million relates to the sale of 100% ordinary shares in Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited for a loss of £337.4 million. 
Subsidiaries and other related entities are listed in note 33 of the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
134 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 131
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
7 Trade and other receivables
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Amounts due from Group companies 2.2 –
2.2 –
8 Trade and other payables
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Current
Amounts due to Group companies 1,021.4 2,270.6
Accruals and deferred income 2.6 2.2
Other payables 1.9 –
1,025.9 2,272.8
Non-current
Other payables 3.9 9.5
3.9 9.5
Financial guarantee contracts to third parties
The Company has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels 
division. See note 25 of the consolidated financial statements for full disclosure.
9 Deferred tax
Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following:
Company 
balance 
sheet
Company 
income 
statement
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Deferred tax liabilities
Retirement benefit asset 13.7 13.8 (0.7) 2.9
Deferred tax liabilities 13.7 13.8
Deferred tax assets
Share-based payments (1.2) (2.4) 1.2 0.4
Deferred tax assets (1.2) (2.4)
Deferred tax charge 0.5 3.3
Net deferred tax liability 12.5 11.4
Analysis of movements in deferred tax:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January (11.4) (10.8)
Amounts charged to the profit and loss account for the year (0.5) (3.3)
Deferred tax (credited)/charged directly to other comprehensive income (0.6) 2.7
At 31 December (12.5) (11.4)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the carried forward tax losses, because it is not probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which the Company can use the benefits therefrom.
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Tax losses 20.1 27.7
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
132 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
10 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The financial risk management objectives and policies applied by the Company are in line with those of the Group as disclosed in 
note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements.
11 Share capital
Number of 28 ⅓p
ordinary shares £m 
Issued and fully paid: 
At 1 January 2014 951,165,221 269.5
During the year 3,460,108 1.0
At 31 December 2014 954,625,329 270.5
During the year
(1)
95,387,740 27.0
At 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 297.5
(1) See note 27 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Number of 28 ⅓p
ordinary shares
Shares issued at 31 December 2014 954,625,329
Treasury shares (31,760,568)
Shares issued at 31 December 2014 excluding treasury shares 922,864,761
Shares issued at 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069
Treasury shares (31,760,568)
Shares issued at 31 December 2015 excluding treasury shares 1,018,252,501
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
136 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 133
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
12 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Called up 
share capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Treasury and 
own shares 
£m
Capital 
reserve 
£m
Retained earnings
£m
Total 
£m
At January 2014 269.5 212.9 (116.7) 0.1 1,536.3 1,902.1
Loss for the year – – – – (155.8) (155.8)
Other comprehensive income – – – – 4.3 4.3
Total comprehensive expense – – – – (151.5) (151.5)
Issue of shares 1.0 2.0 – – – 3.0
Share-based payments charge – – – – 2.8 2.8
Net movement in shares held in ESOP trusts – – 0.6 – (3.3) (2.7)
Equity dividends – – – – (81.4) (81.4)
At 31 December 2014 270.5 214.9 (116.1) 0.1 1,302.9 1,672.3
Loss for the year – – – – (430.3) (430.3)
Other comprehensive income – – – – 2.6 2.6
Total comprehensive expense – – – – (427.7) (427.7)
Issue of shares
(1)
27.0 88.0 – – – 115.0
Share-based payments charge – – – – 3.1 3.1
Net movement in shares held in ESOP trusts – – 3.8 – (11.7) (7.9)
Equity dividends – – – – (52.3) (52.3)
At 31 December 2015 297.5 302.9 (112.3) 0.1 814.3 1,302.5
(1) The issue of shares has been disclosed net of transaction cost of £2.6m.
13 Employee share ownership plans
Details of the employee share ownership plans of the Company are given in note 27 of the Consolidated financial statements. 
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated reduction 
in shareholders’ funds.
LSOT LSIP Total
Shares held 
Number
Cost of 
shares 
£m
Shares held 
Number
Cost of 
shares 
£m
Shares held 
Number
Cost of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 2015
(1)
7,661,052 10.4 865,143 0.4 8,526,195 10.8
Shares purchased/allocated 600,000 0.6 486,021 0.3 1,086,021 0.9
Vested in year (3,882,972) (4.3) (305,734) (0.3) (4,188,706) (4.6)
At 31 December 2015 4,378,080 6.7 1,045,430 0.4 5,423,510 7.1
Market value of shares in trusts 5.2 1.3 6.5
(1) Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Company in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees (CI) Limited 
under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
14 Retirement benefit schemes
As Ladbrokes plc is the ‘Principal Employer’ under the Scheme rules and as it ultimately bears the risk and cost of the Plan in 
practice the defined benefit pension scheme is solely accounted for in Ladbrokes plc.
There is also no contractual agreement or stated policy in place between sponsoring entities for recharging net defined benefit cost 
of the pension scheme.
See note 30 of the consolidated financial statements for disclosure of retirement benefit schemes.
15 Contingencies
Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries 
amounting to £325.0 million (2014: £442.0 million). There have been no loans guaranteed by subsidiary companies. 
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries with a value of £5.9 million (2014: £8.5 million) and the joint venture with 
a value of £8.9 million (2014: £7.7 million). 
For UK corporation tax purposes, the Company has made collective payment arrangements with other undertakings in the Group. 
Under these arrangements the Company has a joint and several liability for amounts owed by those undertakings to HM Revenue 
& Customs.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
134 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
16 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 not to disclose transactions with fellow 
wholly-owned subsidiaries. See note 33 of the consolidated financial statements for disclosure of key management personnel.
17 Transition to FRS 101
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 are the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 
101. For periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its financial statements in 
accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP).
In preparing these financial statements, the Company’s opening balance sheet was prepared as at 1 January 2014, the Company’s
date of transition to FRS 101. This note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its UK GAAP 
statement of financial position as at 1 January 2014 and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements as at and for the year 
ended 31 December 2014.
Exemptions applied
IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirement to apply IFRS as effective for 31 December 2015 
year ends retrospectively. The Company has taken the following exemptions:
– The Company has applied the transitional provision in IFRS 1 to recognise investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at 1 
January 2014 at deemed cost, being the carrying value under UK GAAP; and
– IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied to acquisitions that occurred before 1 January 2014. 
Reconciliation of equity as at 1 January 2014
At 31 December 2013 Note 17
UK GAAP 
£m
Reclassifications 
£m
Remeasurements 
£m
FRS 101 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 3,978.4 – – 3,978.4
Retirement benefit asset 1,2 26.8 6.7 19.6 53.1
4,005.2 6.7 19.6 4,031.5
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 3 19.4 (2.8) (16.4) 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 2.5 – – 2.5
21.9 (2.8) (16.4) 2.7
Total assets 4,027.1 3.9 3.2 4,034.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 2 (2,068.6) – (45.5) (2,114.1)
(2,068.6) – (45.5) (2,114.1)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (7.2) – – (7.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 1,4 – (3.9) (6.9) (10.8)
(7.2) (3.9) (6.9) (18.0)
Total liabilities (2,075.8) (3.9) (52.4) (2,132.1)
Net assets 1,951.3 – (49.2) 1,902.1
Shareholders’ equity
Issued share capital 269.5 – – 269.5
Share premium 212.9 – – 212.9
Treasury and own shares (116.7) – – (116.7)
Capital reserve 0.1 – – 0.1
Retained earnings 1,585.5 – (49.2) 1,536.3
Total shareholders’ equity 1,951.3 – (49.2) 1,902.1
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
138 ladbrokesplc.com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 135
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
17 Transition to FRS 101 continued
Reconciliation of equity as at 31 December 2014 
At 31 December 2014 Note 17
UK GAAP 
£m
Reclassifications 
£m
Remeasurements 
£m
FRS 101 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 3,893.9 – – 3,893.9
Retirement benefit asset 1,2 1.3 0.3 67.9 69.5
3,895.2 0.3 67.9 3,963.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 1,3 57.2 (2.4) (54.8) -
Cash and cash equivalents 2.6 – – 2.6
59.8 (2.4) (54.8) 2.6
Total assets 3,955.0 (2.1) 13.1 3,966.0
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 2 (2,224.6) – (48.2) (2,272.8)
(2,224.6) – (48.2) (2,272.8)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (9.5) – – (9.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 1,4 – 2.1 (13.5) (11.4)
(9.5) 2.1 (13.5) (20.9)
Total liabilities (2,234.1) 2.1 (61.7) (2,293.7)
Net assets 1,720.9 – (48.6) 1,672.3
Shareholders’ equity
Issued share capital 270.5 – – 270.5
Share premium 214.9 – – 214.9
Treasury and own shares (116.1) – – (116.1)
Capital reserve 0.1 – – 0.1
Retained earnings 1,351.5 – (48.6) 1,302.9
Total shareholders’ equity 1,720.9 – (48.6) 1,672.3
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 139 Financial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
136 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.com
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
17 Transition to FRS 101 continued
Notes to the reconciliation of equity from UK GAAP to FRS 101 as at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014
1. Reclassification of deferred tax liabilities and assets
Previously under UK GAAP, the Company presented:
– the retirement benefit asset net of the related deferred tax liability. Under FRS 101, deferred tax liabilities are separately disclosed 
as non-current liabilities on the balance sheet; and
– deferred tax assets in relation to share based payments as current trade receivables. Under FRS 101, deferred tax assets are 
offset with deferred tax liabilities when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when the deferred assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity.
Based on the above, the following reclassification adjustments were recognised:
1 Jan 2014 
£m
31 Dec 2014 
£m
Increase retirement benefit asset 6.7 0.3
Decrease trade and other receivables (2.8) (2.4)
Net reclassification adjustment to increase deferred tax liabilities (3.9) (2.1)
2. Remeasurement of the retirement benefit asset
Remeasurement to reflect movement from FRS 17 to the requirements of IAS 19.
Based on the above, the following remeasurement adjustments have been recognised:
1 Jan 2014 
£m
31 Dec 2014 
£m
Increase retirement benefit asset
Increase trade and other payables
Decrease trade and other receivables
19.6
(45.5)
–
67.9
(48.2)
(29.2)
3. Remeasurement of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables
Previously under UK GAAP, the Company recognised all tax related balances (corporation tax and deferred tax) of the Group on the 
basis that all United Kingdom based entities are treated as a single entity for tax purposes. Under IFRS, tax balances that relate to 
the activities, assets and liabilities of other subsidiary companies should not be recognised in the financial statements of the 
Company.
Based on the above, the remeasurement adjustment to trade and other receivables consists of the following:
1 Jan 2014 
£m
31 Dec 2014 
£m
De-recognition of corporation tax debtor balances (2.8) (9.4)
Reduction of deferred tax asset balances
Trade and other receivables
(13.6)
–
(16.7)
0.5
Total (16.4) (25.6)
4. Remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities
The deferred tax liabilities of the Company have been restated as a result of the derecognition of the deferred tax asset in relation to 
the asset limit, adjustments to the actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income and other temporary differences relating 
to the retirement benefit asset.
1 Jan 2014 
£m
31 Dec 2014 
£m
Increase retirement benefit asset related deferred tax liabilities (6.9) (13.5)
18 Subsequent events
There were no material subsequent events that required adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
140 ladbrokesplc.com Financial statement
Five year financial record
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 137
Ladbrokes classification: Protected
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Revenue 1,199.5 1,174.6 1,117.7 1,084.4 976.1
Profit before tax and net finance expense
(1)
UK Retail 116.1 119.3 133.9 180.7 152.3
European Retail 14.5 13.0 15.6 20.2 13.4
Digital (23.8) 14.0 8.2 31.8 52.4
Core Telephone Betting (2.2) 2.0 (1.7) (1.5) (4.0)
High Rollers 3.3 14.2 5.9 30.0 (3.2)
107.9 162.5 161.9 261.2 210.9
Corporate costs
(1)
(24.0) (22.9) (17.7) (25.1) (23.2)
83.9 139.6 144.2 236.1 187.7
Net finance expense
(1)
(28.1) (27.4) (25.0) (29.7) (32.8)
Profit before taxation
(1)
55.8 112.2 119.2 206.4 154.9
Income tax credit/(expense)
(1)
35.0 (5.6) (6.1) (10.7) (18.4)
Profit for the year
(1)
90.8 106.6 113.1 195.7 136.5
Non-controlling interests – – – – –
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
(1)
90.8 106.6 113.1 195.7 136.5
Exceptional items (99.0) (74.5) (51.6) (5.7) (19.9)
Tax credit on exceptional items 13.3 8.9 5.5 0.3 1.6
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 5.1 41.0 67.0 190.3 118.2
Dividends (52.2) (81.4) (81.2) (74.0) (69.0)
Non-current assets 973.4 1,033.2 1,077.8 969.7 931.0
Equity shareholders’ funds 456.5 391.6 427.0 421.0 306.0
Dividend per share 3.0p 8.9p 8.9p 8.9p 7.8p
Basic earnings per share
(1)
9.4p 11.6p 12.3p 21.6p 15.0p
Basic earnings per share 0.5p 4.4p 7.3p 21.0p 13.0p
(1) Before exceptional items.
Five year financial record
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 Financial statements
Shareholder information
2016 Financial calendar
Record date for 2015 final dividend 29 March 2016
Annual General Meeting 5 May 2016
Payment date for 2015 final dividend 12 May 2016
Announcement of half-year results and  
2016 interim dividend* 4 August 2016
Record date for 2016 interim dividend* 23 September 2016
Payment date for 2016 interim dividend* 10 November 2016
* Provisional date.
Dividends
From April 2016, dividend tax credits will be replaced by an 
annual £5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an 
individual’s entire share portfolio. Above this amount, individuals 
will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent 
on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances. 
The Company will continue to provide shareholders with  
confirmation of the dividends paid to them and this should 
be included with any other dividend income received when 
calculating and reporting total dividend income received. It is 
the shareholder’s responsibility to include all dividend income 
when calculating any tax liability.
Details of dividends paid in the past can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.ladbrokes.co.uk/investors.
Direct credit of dividend payments
Ladbrokes is keen to encourage all its shareholders to 
have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building 
society account. 
If you want your dividends to be paid directly into your UK 
account, you should apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
or contact our Registrar for a dividend mandate form. 
The overseas global dividend service provided by our Registrar 
enables shareholders living overseas to have their dividend paid 
directly into their bank account for a fee. For further details please 
visit www.investorcentre.co.uk/faq and select the ‘Dividends and 
Payments tab’ followed by ‘Global Payment Service’.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company provides a dividend reinvestment plan, which 
enables shareholders to apply all of their cash dividends to buy 
additional shares in Ladbrokes. For more information and a 
mandate to join the plan, visit www.investorcentre.co.uk or 
contact our Registrar.
Manage your shareholding online
You can view and manage your shareholding online at by 
registering for an online account with our Registrar. This service 
allows you to view your share portfolio and see the latest market 
price of your shares, check your dividend payments and tax 
information, change your address, update payment instructions 
and receive your shareholder communications electronically.  
To register for an account, visit www.investorcentre.co.uk and 
click on the register tab. To set up an account you will need 
your Shareholder Reference Number (which can be found on 
your Proxy Form) and postcode.
Shareholders are encouraged to be notified by email when your 
communications are available online. By providing your email 
address you will no longer receive paper copies of annual 
reports or any other shareholder communications. Instead you 
will receive an email advising you when and how to access 
documents online. 
Share dealing service
A share dealing service for Ladbrokes’ shares is available 
through The Share Centre Ltd, a member of the London 
Stock Exchange, which is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. For further details, please contact: 
The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8PB; 
Telephone: 01296 414141.
American depositary receipts (ADRs)
Ladbrokes has a sponsored level 1 ADR programme for which 
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as depositary. 
The ADRs are traded on the Over the Counter market in the 
US under the symbol LDBKY, where one ADR is equal to 
one ordinary share. When dividends are paid to shareholders, 
the depositary makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars 
to ADR holders. 
UK tax on capital gains
Information for UK capital gains tax purposes, which 
includes details of rights and capitalisation issues which 
have ccurred since 31 March 1982, is available at  
www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors. 
Contact details 
Shareholders
For queries regarding your shareholding, please contact our 
Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC:
 By telephone: +44 (0)370 702 0127
 By email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
 Online: www.investorcentre.co.uk
 
  In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC,  
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ
ADR holders
Registered ADR holders should contact the Ladbrokes 
ADR shareholder services line:
 By telephone: +1 866 249 2593
 Online: www.adr.db.com
Be on your guard – beware of fraudsters!
The Company is aware of shareholders receiving 
unsolicited calls or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. Calls are typically from people stating they are 
‘brokers’ based overseas and they offer to ‘buy’ the 
individual’s shares at inflated prices claiming that there is 
a ‘secret’ takeover or merger. Shareholders are advised to 
be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to sell or buy 
their shares or offers of free company reports. Operations 
to buy shares at inflated prices or to sell what often turn 
out to be worthless, high risk or even non-existent shares 
are commonly known as ‘boiler room’ scams.
More detailed information on boiler room scams is 
available at www.ladbrokesplc.com/investors. If you 
think you have been contacted by share fraudsters, 
you can report the matter to the Financial Conduct 
Authority by calling +44 (0)800 111 6768 or by completing 
the online form available at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
142 ladbrokesplc.com Corporate information
Registered number
England 566221
Secretary and registered office
Adrian Bushnell
Ladbrokes plc
Imperial House, Imperial Drive
Rayners Lane
Harrow
Middlesex HA2 7JW
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8868 8899
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8868 8767
www.ladbrokesplc.com
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Telephone: 0870 702 0127
Email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Corporate stockbrokers 
Deutsche Bank AG, London 
UBS Investment Bank
Solicitors
King & Wood Mallesons 
SJ Berwin LLP
Slaughter and May
Principal UK bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Principal offices
UK
Imperial House, Imperial Drive
Rayners Lane
Harrow
Middlesex HA2 7JW
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8868 8899
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8868 8767 
Customer enquiries: 0800 731 4171
www.ladbrokes.com
Belgium
Chaussée de/Steenweg op Waterloo 715/3
1180 Brussels
Belgium
Telephone: (00) 322 349 1611
Fax: (00) 322 349 1615
Gibraltar
Suite 6-8, Fifth Floor
Europort
Gibraltar
Telephone: (00) 350 200 45375
Fax: (00) 350 200 520 27
Republic of Ireland
First Floor, Otter House, Naas Road
Dublin 22
Republic of Ireland
Telephone: (00) 353 1403 6500
Fax: (00) 353 1403 6501
Spain
Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA
C/Santa Maria Magdalena, 10-12, 4º
8016 Madrid
Spain
Telephone: (00) 34 91 790 00 00
Fax: (00) 34 91 345 35 67
Israel
Hilazon 5
Ramat Gan
Israel
Telephone: (00) 972 3 6324814
Fax: (00) 972 72 2281740
Australia
461-473 Lutwyche Road
Lutwyche
Queensland
Australia
Telephone: (00) 61 7 3350 0777
Fax: (00) 61 7 3857 1277
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 Financial statements
Glossary
ABB
Association of British Bookmakers.
Actives
The number of individuals who have placed a bet during 
the year.
Bet in Play
Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on 
out-comes during a live event.
Category B2 gaming machine
Gaming machine with maximum stake of £100 and maximum 
prize of £500.
Category B3 gaming machine
Gaming machine with maximum stake of £2 and maximum 
prize of £500.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Gambling Act
The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation 
governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare
A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those 
with gambling related problems.
Gambling Commission
Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling 
Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and 
lotteries. It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and 
remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and 
vulnerable people.
Gaming Machines
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content (including 
old FOBT content) and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 
Gambling Act.
Gross Win
Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission, 
i.e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
MGD (Machine Games Duty)
MGD is charged at 25% of the gross profit generated from 
machine games.
Net Revenue
Gross win less fair value adjustments, e.g. fair value of reward 
points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate 
income.
Operating profit
Profit before net finance expense, tax and exceptional items.
OTC
Over the Counter.
POC
Point of consumption tax.
Real Money Sign-up
A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an 
account with the Company. To address the issues posed by 
shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of 
business according to where they first register on the gaming site.
Responsible Gambling Trust
A charity that funds treatment, education and research related 
to problem gambling.
SIS (Satellite Information Services)
Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television 
programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the 
UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
SSBTs
Self Service Betting Terminals.
The Coral Group
The proposed merger between Gala Coral Group Limited and 
Ladbrokes plc is with certain businesses of Gala Coral, including 
Coral Retail, Eurobet Retail and Gala Coral’s online business.
144 ladbrokesplc.com Designed and produced by MerchantCantos  
www.merchantcantos.com
Printed by Pureprint Group using their  environmental print  
technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited 
process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.  
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company and is certified to  
Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered  
to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme. Ladbrokes plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Imperial House
Imperial Drive
Rayners Lane
Harrow
Middlesex HA2 7JW
Telephone: +44 (0)20 8868 8899
www.ladbrokesplc.com
