 The
Lakehouse
Way
Annual Report 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report
Overview
IFC Who we are
 Why invest in Lakehouse?
 About Lakehouse
01 Our manifesto
01 Financial highlights
02 The Lakehouse Way
Strategic review
12 Executive Chairman’s Statement
14  Interview with Sean Birrane, CEO
1 7  C o m pa n y s n a p s ho t
18 Market overview
20 Business model
22 Our strategy
24 Key performance indicators
26  Chief Executive Officers’ 
Divisional review
30 Principal risks and uncertainties
34 Resources, relationships  
 and sustainability
Performance
38 Financial review
Governance
43 Executive Chairman’s introduction  
 to Corporate Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Corporate Governance Report
56 Directors’ Remuneration Report
69 Directors’ Report
71 Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
72  Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Lakehouse plc
77 Consolidated statement of  
 comprehensive income
78  Consolidated statement of  
financial position
79  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
80 Consolidated statement of cash flows
81  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
114  Company balance sheet
115  Company statement of changes in equity
116  Notes to the Company  
financial statements
118 Corporate directory
Who  
we are
Lakehouse is an asset and energy support  
services group, focused on customers and  
their communities. We make a difference to  
people’s lives by constructing, improving,  
maintaining and providing services to homes,  
schools, public and commercial buildings.
Lakehouse was founded in 1988 and we have  
grown consistently since, achieving revenue of 
£340.2m in 2014/15. With our headquarters in 
Romford, Essex, we employ more than 2,400  
people through 35 offices across the UK. 
Lakehouse listed on the Main Market of the  
London Stock Exchange in March 2015.
More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto  — We have a reputation for delivering for our 
customers, which has enabled us to build  
productive long term relationships and a  
well-respected brand
 — We are well positioned in large and fragmented 
markets, providing us with a pipeline of  
high-quality opportunities
 — We have a proven growth strategy and the  
financial resources to successfully implement it
 — We are building a broadly based business,  
which is less dependent on any one region,  
market or service 
 — Our order book gives us good visibility for our  
future growth plans
 — We turn a high proportion of our profits into  
cash, giving us the funds to invest and to  
reward shareholders through dividends
Why invest in 
Lakehouse?
More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto To us, success means:
 — Delighting our customers  
by delivering great service
 — Keeping our people safe
Which helps us to:
 — Win new work and retain our  
existing contracts
 — Expand our business by cross-selling 
and entering new regions
Which in turn leads to:
 — A rising order book and high  
revenue visibility 
 — Growing revenues and profits,  
which deliver value to shareholders 
 
Our locations
1988
 — Lakehouse founded 
2008
 — Strategic business review  
2010
 — Announced Contractor of  
the Year at Building Awards
2011
 — K&T Heating acquired
2012
 — Allied Protection acquired
2013
April
 — Launch of new Lakehouse brand
September
 — Announced Contractor of the Year  
at Building Awards for second time
October
 — Foster Property Maintenance acquired 
2014
April
 — Everwarm acquired
 — Rolled out the Customer Journey
October 
 — H2O Nationwide acquired
2015
March
 — Admission to London Stock Exchange
May
 — Providor acquired
 — W i n n e r s o f Housing Excellence 
Customer Service Award
July
 — Orchard Energy acquired
September
 — Sure Maintenance acquired
November
 — Aaron Services acquired
December
 — Precision Lifts acquired
We provide our services  
through four divisions:
Regeneration
Regeneration provides planned and 
responsive maintenance services for  
social housing clients, which are  
mainly local authorities and housing 
associations. The division operates 
through three businesses: Regeneration 
(South), Regeneration (East) and 
Regeneration (North).
Compliance
Compliance comprises planned and 
responsive maintenance, installation  
and repair services to local authority  
and housing association clients, in the 
areas of gas, fire and electrical, water  
and air hygiene, and lifts. These services 
cover clients’ social housing and public 
building assets.
Energy Services
Energy Services provides a range of 
energy efficiency services for primarily 
social housing and private homes. The 
division also uses these services to deliver 
carbon emissions savings for energy 
companies, enabling them to meet their 
legislative targets. In addition, the division 
offers renewable technologies, smart 
metering services and energy brokerage  
to customers throughout the UK.
Construction
Construction offers refurbishment and 
small to medium-sized public building 
works, predominantly for local authority 
clients. The division focuses on clients  
in the education sector, although it also 
delivers some works to a range of other 
public buildings.
How we 
measure 
success
What  
we do
Our  
history We work with our customers to build solutions  
that make a difference to the lives of their customers. 
We are here for the long term and aim to grow our 
relationships. We want our communities to thrive. 
We make an impact through the depth of our  
expertise, so we deliver what our customers want. 
We make an impact through deeper relationships.  
We call it the ‘Lakehouse Way’ of doing things. 
The following pages describe this in more detail.
 £ 3 3 6 . 6m
Underlying
2
 revenue  
 £22 . 2 m
Underlying
1
 EBITA
£21.6m
Underlying
2
 profit before tax
£3.2m
Profit before tax 
 1.9
p
Basic EPS
 1. 9
p
Dividend per share 
1. EBITA is earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of acquisition intangibles. Underlying EBITA is defined 
as operating profit before deduction of exceptional and other items, as outlined in Note 7 and on the face of 
the income statement. Underlying EBITA is the same as ‘Operating profit before exceptional and other items’ 
on the face of the financial statements, but used as terminology in light of being a key performance 
measurement for management in the Group. 
2. As set out in the income statement, other underlying numbers are stated before deduction of exceptional  
and other items, as outlined in Note 7 and on the face of the income statement. Underlying profit after tax  
and underlying earnings per share are net of an imputed tax charge. Underlying revenue represents revenue 
for the underlying Group and excludes contract losses on businesses being exited.
£340.2m
Revenue
6.6%
Underlying
1
 EBITA margin
£4.6m
Operating profit 
 13 . 7
p
Underlying
2
 basic EPS 
£6.6m
Net cash 
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
01
Our  
manifesto
Financial  
highlights More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto
We provide a broad and 
growing range of services 
to customers across the 
public and private sectors. 
But no matter what we are 
doing or who we are doing 
it for, we are proud to 
follow the ‘Lakehouse Way’  
of working.
02 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 15,817
training hours 
completed by our 
employees
We are customer-centric 
Our business revolves around the 
customers we work with. This ensures 
that everyone at Lakehouse – not just 
our front line employees – is always 
focused on our customers’ needs.
03 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Financial statements Governance Performance Strategic review Overview
The  
Lakehouse 
Way More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto
93%
customer 
satisfaction
We believe in building to last 
Our long term approach is reflected  
in the quality of our work and in the 
strength and depth of the relationships 
we develop. 
04 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
The  
Lakehouse 
Way Overview
05 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic review Financial statements Governance Performance More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto
06 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 We leverage our expertise  
for every job 
Our top technical specialists  
support our customer-facing  
teams and share new ideas  
across our business, so all  
our customers benefit.
35
offices across 
the UK
07 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
The  
Lakehouse 
Way
Overview Strategic review Financial statements Governance Performance More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto
181
frameworks at  
30 September 2015
We put our customers first
Our priorities and our success are 
determined by our impact on our  
final customers – the residents, 
teachers, pupils, members of staff  
and the general public who benefit 
from our work on their homes, schools, 
public and commercial buildings.
08 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
The  
Lakehouse 
Way 09 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements More online 
You can find more about our business on our website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/about-us/manifesto
We ‘keep it real’ 
We are passionate about our work  
and always look for opportunities  
to make a real difference to people.
£595m
Group order book
10 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
The  
Lakehouse 
Way 11 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Strategic review Financial statements Governance Performance  
 
I am pleased to report  
that we delivered a good 
operational and financial 
performance during a  
year of important change.  
As well as our successful 
IPO in March 2015, we 
made excellent progress 
with our organic and 
acquisitive growth 
strategy, completing  
four value-enhancing 
acquisitions in the period.
Stuart Black
Executive Chairman
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 12
Executive 
Chairman’s 
Statement Introduction
I am pleased to report that we delivered a good operational  
and financial performance during a year of important change.  
As well as our successful IPO in March 2015, we made excellent 
progress with our organic and acquisitive growth strategy, 
completing four value enhancing acquisitions in the period.
Our focus on customers lies at the heart of our success.  
It ensures we meet their needs through great service, which  
in turn supports our organic growth, our ability to cross-sell and 
our geographic expansion. Consistent delivery underpins both  
our strategy and our financial performance.
Trading performance
Our results for the year demonstrate organic growth and the 
success of recent acquisitions. We increased underlying revenue 
by 11.3% to £336.6m (2014: £302.5m) with organic revenue up 
2.5%. The results included the first full year of Everwarm (acquired 
in April 2014) and H2O Nationwide (acquired in early October 
2014), along with a small contribution from Providor, Orchard 
Energy and Sure Maintenance, all of which were acquired in the 
second half of the year. Revenue was £340.2m (2014: £302.5m).
Underlying EBITA increased significantly to £22.2m (2014: 
£10.8m), representing an improved margin of 6.6% (2014:  
3.6%). Underlying profit before tax increased 114.2% to £21.6m 
(2014: £10.1m). Underlying profit after tax was £17.5m (2014: 
£8.8m), resulting in underlying basic earnings per share of 13.7p 
(2014: 11.7p). Profit after tax was £2.4m (2014: loss of £(0.4)m), 
resulting in basic earnings per share of 1.9p (2014: loss of (0.5)p).
We were successful in winning new work. Our contract wins  
in the year totalled £638m (2014: £364.5m), contributing to  
a year-end order book of £595m (December 2014: £503m  
which represents the first month we prepared comparable data). 
Our strong balance sheet provides the financial resources to 
implement our strategy. At 30 September 2015, the Group had  
net cash of £6.6m (2014: net debt of £7.2m), reflecting the net 
proceeds from our IPO and our strong underlying operating cash 
conversion of 115% (2014: 143%), which was ahead of our long 
term sustainable target of 80%. We also strengthened the Group’s 
financial position ahead of the IPO with a new £30m revolving credit 
facility from the Royal Bank of Scotland, which gave us additional 
resources to support our strategic acquisition programme. Since  
the end of the year, we have extended this facility to £45m in order  
to finance future corporate development activity. 
Strategy
Lakehouse has an established strategy based on organic growth 
supplemented by value-enhancing acquisitions. Our aim is to 
create a sustainable business that delivers profitable growth, whilst 
being robust throughout the changing economic cycle. We aim to 
do this by developing a broad business which is less susceptible  
to challenges in any one geographic region, commercial market or 
service. We have also improved the visibility of revenues and profits 
by building an order book based on frameworks and invested time 
and money in enhancing the visibility of our opportunity pipeline.
In parallel, our plan is to deliver improved returns through moving 
into higher margin areas, increasing self-delivery and emphasising 
strong financial controls and efficiencies, with the aim of building 
further resilience into our business model.
Our structure of four divisions has helped us determine where we 
want to grow and will seek to invest, both organically and through 
acquisition. We expect to focus on opportunities in Compliance 
and Energy Services in the short term, Regeneration in the 
medium term, while Construction will focus on delivering the right 
balance of risk and return. The divisional structure, along with our 
established network of business relationships, enables us to 
identify quickly potential complementary acquisitions which can 
provide additional cross-selling opportunities and new services.
IPO
We are delighted with the success of our IPO and the support 
from our new institutional shareholders. The IPO raised net  
cash proceeds of £24.6m, after costs of £5.4m, to provide the 
resources we need to continue to implement our growth strategy. 
Sound corporate governance structures have always been an 
element of the Lakehouse culture. As part of the IPO, we were 
pleased to further strengthen the Board with the appointment  
of Chris Geoghegan, as our Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, together with Johnathan Ford and Jill Ainscough as 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. We are already benefiting 
from their wealth of experience, from both public company and 
commercial backgrounds.
As part of enhancing our governance we formed a Risk Committee, 
which reports to the Audit Committee, and reviews all aspects of 
operational and strategic risk across the business.
Dividend
As Admission took place just before the half year, we did not declare 
a dividend for the six months ended 31 March 2015. The Board has 
adopted a progressive dividend policy and has proposed a dividend  
of 1.9p per share for the second half which, subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 8 February 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at 8 January 2016. Our aim is to reward our investors while 
retaining capital to invest in our long term growth. 
People
I want to thank everyone in Lakehouse for their hard work and 
contribution to this year’s performance. Over the year and 
following the two acquisitions post year end, our employee base 
has more than doubled to over 2,400 as we increasingly move 
towards a self-delivery model. All the businesses we bought this 
year and since year-end are self-delivery and, collectively, they 
brought some 1,250 people into the Group.
We continue to invest heavily in our people, giving them the  
skills they need to deliver for our customers and advance their 
own careers. The IPO also allows our people to benefit from  
our success through our Save As You Earn scheme. Giving our 
people a sense of ownership is a key part of our culture. To this 
end, at the time of Admission we awarded all our employees an 
allocation of shares under the Group’s Share Incentive Plan.
Outlook
We aim to benefit all our stakeholders. Delivering great service  
to our customers and developing and retaining our employees 
ultimately translates into value for our shareholders.
There is significant growth for us to go for in the coming years  
as we remain a small player in large and fragmented markets. 
Reflecting the scale of this opportunity, our pipeline stood at 
£2.8bn at the year end. We will continue to deepen our presence 
in our existing markets, while implementing our strategy of 
broadening the business and opening up new routes to growth.
With our robust order book and sales pipeline, together with our 
recent successful acquisitions of Aaron Services and Precision 
Lifts, the Board remains confident of its expectations for the 
current year and the future.
Stuart Black 
Executive Chairman
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
13
Welcome to our first  
Annual Report.  
 
Sean Birrane
Chief Executive Officer
Lakehouse Chief Executive 
Officer Sean Birrane 
discusses our business, 
performance, strategy  
and plans for the future.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 14
Interview with  
Sean Birrane, 
CEO Q What pleased you most about this year’s results?
A  We delivered a strong operational and financial performance 
across the Group, despite the inevitable distractions of  
the IPO process. We acquired and integrated four new 
businesses and negotiated two more that completed after 
year-end, all to complement our Energy Services and 
Compliance divisions. We also established a Regeneration 
business in Scotland and mobilised a number of new 
responsive maintenance contracts within Regeneration 
(East). Achieving all that while staying focused on delivery  
is testament to the great people we have.
Q Where can you do better?
A  We need to make sure we stay up to date with how our 
customers’ needs and expectations are changing, and help 
them to understand which other services we can deliver for 
them. The acquisitions we have made over the last few years 
have given us new customers in new parts of the country.  
We have also broadened our service offering, so we have  
to bring our existing customers up to speed with everything 
we do. We need to continue to get in front of our customers 
and have that dialogue. 
   We are also looking to continuously improve, particularly 
through our ‘Customer Journey’ initiative and by using ICT.  
We will continue investing in both those areas to drive 
performance.
Q  You operate in four markets – Regeneration, 
Compliance, Energy Services and Construction.  
Why these four? Could you add a fifth?
A  Our divisions provide different services but to the same 
customers. That is an important part of our cross-selling 
strategy – to provide a single customer with services from  
all our divisions. It is more efficient for them and clearly 
benefits us too.
   The four markets in which we operate also remain very 
fragmented and we still have relatively small shares of these 
markets. That means there is plenty of growth to go for,  
in markets where we are already established and have a  
strong reputation.
 
Q  How significant could the commercial sector be  
for Lakehouse?
A  Our acquisitions have made the commercial sector more 
important to us and there are significant opportunities there, 
especially for Energy Services and Compliance, albeit to 
provide some context, this sector still makes up less than  
5% of our revenues. If we can deliver the same services,  
at the right margins, to the right sort of customer, then we  
will definitely explore those opportunities. We can also  
cross-sell our other services to commercial customers,  
as they rationalise their supply chains and use fewer service 
providers. There is lots of potential.
 
Q  Will Lakehouse ultimately become a national player  
in its markets?
A  There are certainly near term opportunities to take 
Compliance and Energy Services nationwide, both through 
organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions. We also want to 
continue our success in Scotland, where we have established 
a Regeneration business to work with our existing Energy 
Services customers in the public sector. But we have also  
got a lot more to go for in our existing regions, so it is much 
more about the quality of the opportunities than geographical 
expansion for the sake of it.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
15
Overview
Making an impact through  
deeper relationships. In May 2015 Lakehouse was announced Customer Service Award winner 
at the Housing Excellence Awards in Manchester. The nomination was 
based on the ‘Customer Journey’ initiative which focuses on people and 
relationships and has created a sustainable customer service model 
using innovative behavioural management techniques.
Our team of Resident Liaison Officers help us to retain contracts and win 
new work by ensuring high levels of customer satisfaction.
Q What are the key risks to your growth plans?
A  We expect that our social housing customers will be affected 
by Right to Buy and the cap on rents, which may mean they 
will have fewer properties and less income. Government 
policy has also influenced the Energy Services market, 
particularly around carbon pricing. However, we offer a broad 
range of services, many of which are compulsory, and we 
expect our clients to continue to invest in their assets.
  It is also important for us to attract and retain a high-calibre 
workforce. As we have grown Compliance and Energy 
Services, we are delivering more business directly rather  
than through our traditional subcontracting model. We have  
a larger, mobile engineering workforce which we will continue 
to grow.
Q  What difference has the IPO made to your business?
A  Becoming a listed company inevitably involved strengthening 
our governance framework and reporting. The challenge is  
to make sure that does not change our culture or affect our 
employees at the local level. We are very conscious of that. 
We need to protect our entrepreneurial ethos and make sure 
our people can concentrate on delivering for our customers.
Q  What are your plans for acquisitions?
A  We are always keen to identify acquisitions and we have said  
that we would like to add to our Compliance, Energy Services  
and Regeneration businesses. We regularly assess targets,  
to see if they fit our criteria, which are to acquire businesses 
that provide us with complementary service offerings, expand 
our geographical reach and/or provide the opportunity to 
generate higher margin sales and improve cash generation. 
We are very selective about the businesses we acquire and 
highly focused on meeting these criteria. If we find targets that 
fit our strategy, then we have the financial strength to acquire. 
 
  We also have to be able to successfully integrate every 
business we buy. We put a lot of time and effort into working 
with and understanding our targets first, and we carefully 
map out the integration in advance and make sure we have 
buy-in for the programme from both sides. The more 
acquisitions we do, the better we get at it.
Q Why should potential customers choose Lakehouse?
A  First and foremost, it is the quality of delivery – customers get 
great service when they come to us. It is also about the way 
we work. We provide a personal service and our customers 
know that if they have an opportunity or an issue, they can 
speak directly to the person in charge. 
  Finally, we have a broad range of services to offer. Even if 
customers do not want several services right now, they like 
knowing they can take them in the future. All of that translates 
into excellent customer satisfaction scores, strong customer 
relationships and good levels of repeat business.
Q  What should we expect from Lakehouse in the  
next 12 months?
A  Our aim for next year is to keep doing what we are doing.  
That means delivering great service to our customers and 
building on our reputation for delivery as a trusted partner.
Sean Birrane
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 16
Interview with  
Sean Birrane, 
CEO 
continued Mission
To improve lives by creating better environments in which  
to live, work and learn, and to make an impact by building  
deeper relationships.
Vision
To be a unique and outstanding asset and energy support 
services group, where we lead our market, innovate in our  
sector, and where our people are happy and proud, working  
to delight our customers.
Values
 — Passion – work with a passion for delivering our services  
to our customers: enthusiasm is everything
 — Care – understand and act in the best interests of our 
employees, customers and partners to ensure the Lakehouse 
experience is a positive one
 — Keeping promises – deliver promises on time and to the 
agreed standard: our word is our bond
 — Responsibility – committed to ownership and responsibility, 
from individual to corporate level
Services
Regeneration, Compliance, Energy Services, Construction.
Markets
We serve three core public sector markets:
 — Social housing
 — Education
 — Public buildings
We also increasingly serve clients who own industrial and 
commercial buildings.
Company  
snapshot
Business model
Our business model is based on our commitment to delivering 
great service to our customers, which in turn enables us to create 
value for all our stakeholders.
Strategy
We have a five-part strategy, each element of which reinforces  
the others:
 — Driving organic growth
 — Increasing cross-selling
 — Expanding our geographical footprint
 — Increasing self-delivery
 — Making complementary acquisitions
KPIs
We measure the success of our strategy using the following 
indicators:
 — Revenue 
 — Underlying EBITA 
 — Order book  
 — Underlying operating cash 
conversion  
 — Accident Incident Rate
 — Management retention rate
 — Customer satisfaction
 — Carbon usage
Resources, relationships and sustainability
The resources and relationships that are central to our business 
model, as well as our broader approach to responsible business, 
fall into four main categories:
 — Workplace
 — Marketplace
 — Community
 — Environment
17 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic review Our markets
Our divisions primarily serve public sector customers in the social 
housing, education and public buildings markets. We also serve 
customers in the industrial and commercial market. 
Our markets and primary customers are:
Division Customers
Regeneration Social housing providers, which are mainly 
local authorities and housing associations, 
in London, the South East, East Anglia,  
the East Midlands and Scotland.
Compliance Social housing providers and some 
commercial customers, with the majority  
of our business in London, the South and 
the South East, and a recently established 
presence in the North of England and  
the Midlands.
Energy Services Private and social housing providers,  
public and commercial building owners,  
five of the Big Six and the key independent 
energy utility companies and the Scottish 
Government, as well as customers 
nationwide for smart meters and  
energy brokerage.
Construction Education customers in London and the 
South East, as well as the Ministry of 
Defence and other public buildings.
Large and fragmented markets
At the time of our IPO in March 2015, we estimated our 
addressable market at £7.9bn, rising to £10.8bn including 
cross-selling opportunities. This estimate only considered the 
regions we operated in, with the total UK market being in excess 
of £21bn. Since then, the acquisitions we have made have  
further increased our addressable market, by broadening our 
geographical reach and the range of services we offer.
Markets
£bn
Construction Energy Services Compliance Regeneration
Current regions Current regions 
including 
cross-selling 
Total UK
3.1
0.6
0.8
3.4
4.2
0.8
1.9
3.9
8.9
1.6
4.0
6.8
The markets we serve are highly fragmented. We compete with 
national businesses in some of our markets, including Kier Group, 
Keepmoat, Mitie and Mears. We also compete with many smaller, 
regional players. However, few companies compete with us 
across all of our markets. The fragmented nature of the markets  
in which we operate gives us scope to grow, both organically  
and by acquisition. 
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 18
Market  
overview
We operate in attractive, long term 
growth markets, which offer us 
considerable potential to expand 
in the coming years. What drives 
our markets?
A number of powerful factors create demand for our services:
Budgets are under pressure
The Government has an ongoing programme to reduce public 
spending. While the services we provide have been relatively 
protected from these pressures, our customers still need to 
procure more cost-effective services. This is leading them to 
contract with providers such as us, with a strong reputation for 
delivery. Customers are also rationalising their supply chains to 
increase efficiency, which plays to our strengths given our breadth 
of services. 
Customers must comply with regulations
We help many of our customers to meet their legal or regulatory 
obligations. For example, social landlords are by law obliged to 
maintain housing stock to a designated standard. The UK’s failure 
to build enough social housing means the existing stock is ageing, 
increasing the need for refurbishment and repair. Compliance 
services are also frequently mandatory and driven by regulation. 
This creates predictable demand for these services.
Customers have environmental obligations
Improvements to energy efficiency are an important part of the 
Government's long term energy policy, with the aim of tackling 
climate change and reducing fuel poverty. In the Energy Services 
market, we help customers to improve their properties’ 
environmental performance. This both protects the environment 
and, for housing tenants, helps to cut their energy bills.
Demographic trends are favourable
The growing population has created considerable unmet  
demand for primary school places, which will lead to an 
increasing shortage of secondary school places as children grow. 
Nationally, an additional 1 million school places are needed by 
2023 (source: Department for Education), with London alone 
requiring 133,000 new places by 2018. The need to build or 
extend schools has led to a substantial pipeline of work for  
our Construction division.
There is also an acute shortage of social housing stock in the UK, 
as a consequence of ‘Right to Buy’ sales to former social housing 
tenants and the failure of new build housing to keep up with 
demand. This has led to an increasing age profile in the existing 
social housing stock, increasing the need for refurbishment,  
repair and maintenance. This in turn creates growing demand  
for our services.
19 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic review Cross-selling
Organic  
growth
Complementary 
acquisitions
Investment in  
our people
Shareholder 
value creation
Customer 
experience
20 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Business  
model What we do
Lakehouse constructs, improves, maintains and provides services 
to homes, schools, public and commercial buildings. In doing so, 
we create safe, high-quality environments, which improve the 
quality of life of the people who live in or use them. This in turn 
generates value for our shareholders and our other stakeholders.
How we create value
We start by prioritising our opportunities, based on their risk, 
returns and strategic fit. Our strong customer relationships  
and market intelligence are critical, enabling us to identify 
opportunities ahead of time, prepare for bidding and allocate  
the resources we will need in order to win. These relationships  
also enable us to understand our customers’ challenges and 
requirements, which is crucial to a successful tender.
We benefit from being able to offer a wide range of services  
and geographic spread. This presents more opportunities to us,  
so we can be selective about what we bid for and only pursue 
tenders where we believe we have a better chance of winning  
and of delivering the work successfully.
We believe our centrally managed but locally based commercial 
team is a major advantage over our competitors. The team 
screens opportunities and provides specialised bid writing  
and estimating support to our businesses, so they can prepare 
compelling tenders. 
Our clients and their customers are at the heart of everything  
we do. Our values – passion, care, keeping promises and 
responsibility – ensure we work in the right way and focus on 
delivery. In-depth knowledge of our customers’ challenges helps 
us to anticipate and respond to their requirements, improve our 
services and increase our chances of securing contract renewals 
and extensions. 
By focusing on risks and winning contracts with appropriate 
returns, we aim to deliver our business profitably. Growth also 
enables us to leverage our central overheads, contributing to 
rising margins. We look to continually improve both our service 
and our efficiency through initiatives such as our ‘Customer 
Journey’ and by investing in our systems, training, development 
and safety. We rely on our supply chain to deliver a number of  
our services and for high-quality materials. We build long term 
relationships with them, so they deliver consistently and benefit 
from our growth.
This approach means that many clients view us as their provider 
of choice. We achieve high customer satisfaction levels, which 
reinforces our reputation and brand, and helps us to win work 
with new and existing clients. Our breadth of services strengthens 
our position, allowing us to cross-sell and meet a growing number 
of our customers’ challenges. This is attractive to them, as they 
increase efficiency by rationalising their supply chains and rely  
on fewer providers for more services.
To enhance our value creation, we acquire businesses that 
reinforce our ability to grow organically, by expanding our service 
offering, our customer base or our geographical footprint, while 
increasing the proportion of business we self-deliver.
The outcomes we aim to generate:
For our customers – high-quality service, delivered with greater 
efficiency, which enables them to meet their legal, regulatory and 
environmental obligations.
For our clients’ customers – safe and well-maintained homes 
and buildings, which improve their quality of life.
For our people – interesting and challenging careers, in a 
growing business that offers them the chance to develop and 
reach their potential.
For our suppliers – the potential to grow their business, by 
developing a strong relationship with an expanding Group.
For our communities – increased employment and skills and 
improved community infrastructure.
For our shareholders – growing revenue and profits, enabling  
us to pay a progressive dividend while retaining funds to invest  
for future growth.
21 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
We are built to create  
sustainable value.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic review Description Progress in the year  Objective for 2015/2016 
1. Driving organic growth
By maintaining high levels of customer 
service, we can grow our revenue on each 
framework, retain our position on renewal, 
and win new contracts and frameworks 
with new customers. Operating sustainably 
is key, allowing us to protect our people’s 
safety, attract and retain talent, build 
community relationships and improve 
environmental performance.
 — Total contract wins in the year of £638m
 — Organic revenue growth of 2.5%
 — Increased the number of frameworks we 
are on, from 99 to 181
 — Increased our order book to £595m
 — Achieved average customer 
satisfaction ratings of 93%
 — Implemented our Customer Journey 
across more than 80% of live sites. Live 
sites are those where actual contracted 
work has commenced (this does not 
include sites that are at set up stage)
 — Retained 87.7% of the management team
 — Everwarm achieved UKAS 
accreditations for 18001, 14001 and 
9001 in line with our strategy. Allied 
Protection and K&T Heating achieved 
UKAS accreditations for 18001 and 
14001 in line with our strategy. These 
standards have been integrated with 
the Lakehouse standards and are 
supported by our audit regime
 — Completed a successful Stage 1 
50001 external energy management 
audit for the Group, in order to comply 
with the Energy Savings Opportunity 
Scheme (ESOS)
 — Continue to target new long term 
contracts and positions on  
key frameworks
 — Achieve customer satisfaction ratings 
of at least 90%
 — Continue behavioural based  
Customer Journey improvement  
plans for all areas of the business
 — Retain at least 85% of our 
management team
 — Further improve health and safety 
performance by implementing our 
behavioural based audit and support 
model across the Group, supported  
by our Learning Management System
 — Continue to reduce energy 
consumption through our carbon 
reduction action plan
2. Increasing cross-selling
By understanding customers’ needs  
and identifying appropriate opportunities, 
we aim to cross-sell services from across 
our divisions.
 — Secured work for our Compliance 
(Gas) division by introduction to 
Nottinghill Housing. Also secured 
work for Regeneration (South) in the 
same way, an existing Compliance 
(Fire and Electric) client
 — Secured work for our Regeneration 
(South) division and Energy Services 
division through initial introduction  
of Brent Housing Partnership by  
our Construction division
 — Secured work for our Regeneration 
(South) and Compliance (Fire and 
Electric) divisions through initial 
introduction of Peabody by 
Compliance (Gas)
 — Continue dialogue with new and 
existing customers, to ensure they 
understand the full range of our 
service offering
 — Join-up divisional cross-selling  
efforts, by ensuring business 
development teams share intelligence 
on customers and opportunities
3. Expanding our geographical footprint
By carefully selecting organic growth 
opportunities, we aim to grow our 
presence in adjacent regions and  
to increase our penetration of  
existing regions.
 — Continued to expand in our 
established regions, winning contracts 
with new and existing clients
 — Significantly expanded the scale of 
our operations in Scotland, by winning 
the HEEPS contract with the Scottish 
Government, as well as establishing 
Regeneration (North)
 — Continued to expand our 
Regeneration business in the 
Midlands, being appointed to the 
Efficiency East Midlands framework 
and winning an important contract 
with Metropolitan Housing
 — Continue to penetrate existing regions
 — Achieve further contract wins in  
the Midlands
 — Deepen business in new regions  
such as the North of England through 
cross-selling
22 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
We follow a successful five-part 
strategy, which enables us to drive 
growth, increase margins and buy 
businesses that enhance our 
organic growth platform.
Our  
strategy Description Progress in the year  Objective for 2015/2016 
4. Increasing self-delivery
By increasingly delivering our services 
through our own employees or self-
employed contractors, rather than 
third-party subcontractors, we aim to 
enhance our margins, brand awareness 
and service quality.
 — Acquired four businesses (see below) 
during the year, all of which follow the 
self-delivery model
 — Introduce self-delivery model  
in Regeneration (South)
5. Making complementary acquisitions
By acquiring businesses that complement 
our existing operations, we increase the 
breadth of our service offering, which 
creates more scope for cross-selling,  
and expands the geographical reach  
of our business.
During the year, we acquired:
 — H2O Nationwide, a national air  
and water compliance business
 — Providor, a nationwide smart  
metering specialist
 — Orchard Energy, a UK energy 
procurement and advisory  
services provider
 — Sure Maintenance, a gas compliance 
business for customers in the North  
of England and the Midlands
 — Continue to review potential targets, 
which can reinforce our organic 
growth platform and increase 
self-delivery
 — In November 2015 we acquired Aaron 
Services, a heating services provider 
 — In December 2015 we acquired 
Precision Lifts, a lift installation and 
maintenance company
The five elements  
of our strategy are  
mutually reinforcing.
Our reputation for 
service delivery 
enables us to drive 
organic growth, 
offering our existing 
services in our  
existing regions.
This in turn helps us to 
cross-sell, with strong 
customer relationships 
enabling us to identify 
opportunities to provide 
other services to them, 
and encouraging them 
to increase their 
business with us.
Self-delivery helps to 
ensure the high-quality 
service our reputation 
depends on, enabling 
us to retain existing 
customers and attract 
new ones, and in turn 
drive organic growth 
and cross-selling.
Carefully targeted 
acquisitions bring  
new capabilities into  
the Group, further 
increasing the scope for 
cross-selling. Acquired 
businesses are typically 
self-delivery and  
often increase our 
geographical footprint. 
Once integrated, 
acquired businesses 
strengthen our platform 
for organic growth.
Cross-selling helps  
us to expand our 
geographical footprint. 
Energy Services is 
particularly strong  
in Scotland and has 
the opportunity to 
expand its presence in 
England, while we see 
significant scope to 
provide Regeneration, 
Compliance and 
Construction services 
in Scotland and to 
further penetrate 
existing and adjacent 
areas in England.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
23 Financial indicators Relevance to strategy Performance
Revenue
We operate primarily under service and 
construction contracts, recognising revenue 
when we can reliably estimate a contract's 
outcome and by reference to the stage of 
completion of the work.
The level of revenue 
demonstrates our ability to grow 
the Group, both through organic 
growth and through our carefully 
targeted acquisitions.
We increased underlying revenue by 11.3% to 
£336.6m (2014: £302.5m), with organic revenue  
up 2.5%.
 11 .3%
underlying revenue increase
Underlying EBITA
EBITA is earnings before interest, tax and 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles. 
Underlying EBITA is stated before contract 
losses on businesses being exited and 
exceptional items.
The increase in underlying 
EBITA demonstrates our ability 
to grow our profitability and to 
expand our margins. 
Underlying EBITA grew by 105.6% to £22.2m, 
reflecting our organic growth and the impact of 
acquisitions. The underlying EBITA margin increased  
to 6.6% (2014: 3.6%).
 105.6%
underlying EBITA increase
Order book
The order book is our contracted revenues, 
together with prospective revenues from  
the frameworks we are on, where our 
experience of customers deploying their 
confirmed budgets means our revenue  
from the framework is predictable.
The order book measures  
our success at securing the  
long term contracts and 
frameworks we bid for and  
make our future revenue  
more predictable. 
The order book increased from £503m at the start of 
the year to £595m at 30 September 2015.
£595m
order book at 30 September 2015
Underlying operating cash conversion
Underlying operating cash conversion is 
operating cash flow, plus the cash impact  
of exceptional and other items (discussed 
further in Note 7), as a percentage of 
underlying EBITA.
A high level of underlying 
operating cash conversion 
demonstrates the quality of  
the profits we earn, as well  
as our ability to generate funds 
for reinvesting in our growth  
and paying dividends to 
shareholders.
Underlying operating cash conversion in the year was 
strong, at 115% (2014: 143%).
We continue to target average cash conversion of 80% 
over the long term.
 11 5%
underlying operating cash conversion
Note:
Newly acquired businesses are integrated into the KPI reporting process over a period of time reflective of the underlying systems and processes in place at the point of 
acquisition for capturing the necessary data.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 24
Key  
performance 
indicators
We use the following key 
performance indicators to  
monitor our success with  
our strategy. Non-financial indicators Relevance to strategy Performance
Accident Incident Rate (AIR) 
The AIR is the total number of specified 
injuries, seven day reportable injuries and 
reportable cases of ill health, multiplied  
by 100,000 and divided by the average 
number of employees, including 
subcontractors, within the Group.
Working in a safe environment 
allows our people to focus on 
delivering great service to our 
customers. Protecting our 
people also supports employee 
engagement and retention. 
The AIR was 98.62, compared with 85.59 in 2013/14  
and remains substantially below our target of 151. 
98.62
Accident Incident Rate (AIR)
Management retention rate
The management retention rate provides a 
measure for us to assess our ability to retain 
employees who occupy a ‘leadership role’. 
This is represented by a simple statistic –  
for example, a retention rate of 80% would 
indicate that we retained 80% of our 
leadership team in a given period (1 October 
2014 – 30 September 2015). This is based 
on weighted average. Employee data from 
acquisitions is included as they become part 
of the Lakehouse Group. 
Our ability to deliver great 
service and to grow our 
business ultimately depends  
on retaining our key people.
The management retention rate for the year was  
87.7% which is ahead of our target of 85%. We did  
not have robust methods of measurement in 2014 so  
no comparative is provided. This KPI was established  
in February 2015.
87.7%
management retention rate
Customer satisfaction
This is our measure of how our services 
meet or surpass customers’ expectations. 
All customers are encouraged to complete 
a satisfaction form when work is completed. 
Approximately 84% are completed and 
returned. We collate responses from  
these and present them in a Customer 
Satisfaction Tracker for each project,  
where an overall average satisfaction  
score is calculated.
Satisfied customers are the key 
to our business. High levels of 
customer satisfaction help us to 
retain contracts and to win work 
with both new and existing 
customers. 
Customer satisfaction levels remained strong across 
the Group, with an average of 93% (2014: 92%).
We are ahead of our target to achieve customer 
satisfaction above 90%.
93%
customer satisfaction
Carbon usage
We calculate our carbon footprint by adding 
energy use across the Group with the fleet 
(both business and privately-owned).
Our customers, particularly  
in the public sector, want to 
engage responsible suppliers. 
Managing our environmental 
impact is therefore important for 
our ability to win work, as well 
as being socially responsible 
and more cost efficient for us.
Our carbon usage was 5,349.8 tonnes of CO 2e.  
This is equivalent to 16 tonnes per £million of revenue.
We did not have robust data collection processes for 
2014; formal monitoring commenced in September 2014 
so no comparative was provided.
We are aiming to decrease our overall carbon emissions 
relative to revenue by 2% per annum.
The carbon footprint is developed from Scope 1 4,862.5 
tonnes and Scope 2 487.3 tonnes emissions as defined  
in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This covers the direct 
emissions produced as a result of our works – namely  
the fleet, as well as those emissions associated with 
consumed electricity and gas. The scope of the carbon 
footprint covers those companies within the Lakehouse 
Group at the start of October 2014 and H2O from April 
2015 and is derived from electricity and gas meter 
readings as well as data drawn down from fuel cards.
5,349.8 tonnes
carbon usage
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
25 I am pleased with the performance across the Group in our maiden 
year as a listed company. We reported underlying Group revenue 
growth of 11.3% to £336.6m with underlying profit before tax 
increasing significantly to £21.6m. We have continued to focus on 
the quality of business we win, prioritising earning good margins 
rather than revenue. The Group won a wide range of work in the 
period including a number of strategically important long term 
contracts. In addition, we have benefited from our focused 
approach to identifying the right contracts to target, high-quality  
bid compilation and a considered approach to pricing. This has 
increased our order book and, coupled with a strong sales pipeline, 
puts us in a strong position for growth in the future. 
Our highly selective targeting of new opportunities has also 
contributed to the improved profit margins across each of our 
divisions. I am delighted with the rate and success of the 
integration of our newly acquired businesses and I am very 
positive about the cross-selling opportunities that our newly 
integrated businesses are already bringing to the Group.
Regeneration
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 161.7 172.6 (6.3)%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 10.5 9.3 13.4%
Underlying EBITA margin 6.5% 5.4% 110bps
Regeneration provides planned and responsive maintenance 
services for social housing clients, which are mainly local 
authorities and housing associations. The division operates 
through three businesses: Regeneration (South), Regeneration 
(East) and Regeneration (North).
The 6.3% reduction in revenues during the year reflected that  
our Hackney Homes contract came to maturity and the Eastern 
Procurement and London Borough of Camden frameworks  
were in the stages of re-procurement in the period. We are 
participating in the re-procurement of relevant lots for both 
Eastern Procurement and Camden in the current financial year; 
the outcome of both exercises will be determined by where we 
can make a satisfactory return.
Despite the reduced revenue, we improved our EBITA margins by 
selectively bidding and focusing on our framework opportunities 
with smaller, higher margin contracts. This focus reflects the 
changing social housing procurement backdrop, where some 
clients are moving away from high value bundled contracts to 
more product-targeted frameworks with multiple potential delivery 
partners. This has resulted in an increased level of bidding activity 
but plays to our strategy, as the breadth of services Lakehouse 
offers enables us to bid for these as specialists, giving us a 
competitive advantage over our larger peers, who cannot 
necessarily offer such services in-house. We only recognise the 
value of confirmed orders and budgets in our order book, so one 
consequence of this trend is that we are likely to see an increased 
difference between the value of our confirmed order book and the 
overall value of framework contracts, based on our estimated 
share of the available budget.
During the year the division continued to win new business, 
increasing its participation in framework contracts from 33 at the 
end of September 2014 to 53. Importantly, these frameworks 
have a combined value of £539m and an average duration of  
four years. Notable wins included the two year London & 
Quadrant Housing Trust Decent Homes framework, a Stevenage 
Borough Council two year roofing upgrade programme, a four 
year external decorations programme for Family Mosaic and  
a four year major housing works framework for Enfield Homes. 
Regeneration (South) secured a place on the Southwark four year 
framework; secured and delivered projects for Guinness (Mansell 
Street externals and a further kitchen and bathroom scheme); 
kitchen and bathroom upgrade works for London Borough of 
Harrow; and fire precaution upgrade works for Brent Housing 
Partnership. In addition, as reserve contractor, we have been 
called on to help clients when their incumbent partners have  
fallen short in terms of service. We also re-secured the Eastern 
Procurement Heating framework following our strong 
performance and high levels of customer satisfaction on  
the previous framework. 
We invested in our continued organic growth in two key areas:  
a responsive maintenance operation in Regeneration (East) and  
in Regeneration (North) in Scotland. 
Regeneration (East) mobilised the five responsive maintenance 
contracts won in the first half of the year and we see this as  
a growth area, albeit we may look at targeted acquisitions to  
help us achieve critical mass. We are also looking to build the 
business in adjacent markets and saw early success at the end  
of the year with an important contract win with Nottingham-based 
Metropolitan Housing Trust to undertake kitchen and bathroom 
refurbishments over a two year period. We are also seeing some 
direct selection contracts coming from the Efficiency East 
Midlands framework we were recently appointed to (for planned 
maintenance services), alongside our Compliance division  
(for both gas and water and air hygiene).
Regeneration (North) is already winning work, including being 
appointed to frameworks for the City of Edinburgh and Argyll  
& Bute Council. City of Edinburgh has begun a substantial 
procurement programme and we will shortly be delivering our  
first newly secured contracts through this framework.
To further improve customer service and our efficiency, we have 
implemented our new maintenance operating system, Impact 
Response, for responsive maintenance services. This system tracks 
each responsive maintenance task order, from the moment we 
receive the call, all the way through to customer satisfaction surveys 
and invoicing. We have also invested significantly in a new customer 
contact centre in Regeneration (East). By supporting high-quality 
service, these initiatives will help us to win and retain contracts.
Self-delivery remains an important part of our strategy: for 
example, our roofing team is successfully delivering projects using 
this model. We intend to roll out this model more widely in the 
medium term which will help us improve customer satisfaction 
and contract profitability.
As discussed above, we are seeing a shift away from traditional 
bundled frameworks with guaranteed budget allocations to  
a small number of contractors, to frameworks with multiple 
contractors competing on mini tenders. Regeneration is seeing  
an increasing number of opportunities coming through as a result, 
where clients are seeking to broaden their base of service 
providers. We expect the current year to be one of consolidation, 
as some of our traditional bundled frameworks come to an end 
and we seek to develop positions on a wider number of new 
frameworks. We are confident that our reputation for customer 
service and operational delivery means we are well positioned  
to help these customers over the long term.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 26
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Divisional review Compliance
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 36.6 32.2 13.9%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 4.5 2.5 77.0%
Underlying EBITA margin 12.3% 7.9% 440bps
Compliance comprises planned and responsive maintenance, 
installation and repair services to local authority and housing 
association clients in the areas of gas, fire and electrical, water 
and air hygiene and lifts. These services cover clients’ social 
housing and public building assets. The acquisition of H2O 
Nationwide in October 2014 expanded our range of compliance 
services into air and water. In addition, we acquired Sure 
Maintenance in September 2015, extending the geographical 
footprint of the Group’s gas offering. In November 2015, after the 
end of the financial year, we acquired Aaron Services, which gives  
us a broader geographic footprint, offering the same cross-selling 
openings as Sure and a particular opportunity to work with 
Regeneration (East), which operates in a similar territory. In 
December 2015, we announced the acquisition of Precision Lifts 
which brings lift installation and maintenance capabilities into the 
division. This enables us to provide an even more comprehensive 
compliance offering and opens up new opportunities.
Full year revenues increased by 13.9%, an improvement of 
£4.4m. This was aided by the acquisition of our water and air 
business, H2O Nationwide, on 3 October 2014 which provided  
a full year contribution. The acquisition of Sure Maintenance in 
September 2015, close to year end, provided a small contribution.
An improvement in business mix, particularly the contribution of 
higher margin water and air services, along with a number of high 
margin projects saw margins improve from 7.9% to 12.3%. The 
division also did not see the scale of new contract mobilisation 
experienced in the prior year and so saw a lower impact of 
mobilisation costs.
Notable wins included a seven year gas maintenance contract 
with Arun District Council, a three year mechanical and electrical 
contract with MHS Homes, and a four year electrical maintenance 
contract with Brighton & Hove City Council. Our projects with 
Peabody and A2 Dominion, which were the result of cross-selling 
initiatives, also performed well. We are continuing to strengthen 
our relationships with these customers. Further successes 
include fire maintenance and safety works for Kensington & 
Chelsea TMO and Wandle Housing Association, together with 
contracts for gas servicing and maintenance for A1 Housing, 
domestic boiler installations for London Borough of Islington, gas 
safety inspections for Lanarkshire Housing Association and a 
framework win for major works for London Borough of Southwark.
H2O Nationwide performed well in the year, delivering continued 
organic growth and re-securing a key contract with Unite 
Housing. It achieved its first cross-selling success, winning a 
contract to provide water treatment to Arun District Council, a gas 
compliance customer introduced by K&T Heating. The business 
also entered the social housing market when it was appointed  
to a framework for Efficiency East Midlands, working alongside 
Foster Property Maintenance and Sure Maintenance in this 
procurement network. 
We believe that as a consequence of new contract wins and 
complementary acquisitions, we have achieved critical mass,  
both in terms of geographic coverage and scale of engineers  
we employ directly. Our Compliance division now offers a 
comprehensive range of services which we are developing into a 
single Lakehouse offering, with delivery supported by our Impact 
Response system and our Customer Journey initiative. We are 
now raising customer awareness of our offering and reviewing 
with them how we can meet all their compliance needs. 
Acquisitions since 1 October 2014
H2O Nationwide
Water and air hygiene
Head office: Basildon
Year established: 1998
Date acquired: 6 October 2014
Employees: 40 (at time of acquisition)
Aaron Services
Gas servicing and maintenance
Head office: Ipswich
Year established: 1985
Date acquired: 2 November 2015
Employees: 390 (at time of acquisition)
Precision Lifts
Lift installation and maintenance
Head office: Upminster
Year established: 1996
Date acquired: 9 December 2015
Employees: 69 (at time of acquisition)
Sure Maintenance
Gas servicing and maintenance
Head office: Liverpool 
Year established: 2001
Date acquired: 14 September 2015
Employees: 370 (at time of acquisition)
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
27 Energy Services
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 68.1 22.9 196.6%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 9.6 2.8 244.1%
Underlying EBITA margin 14.1% 12.1% 200bps
Energy Services provides a range of energy efficiency services  
for social housing and private homes. The division also uses these 
services to deliver carbon emissions savings for energy companies, 
enabling them to meet their legislative targets. In addition, the 
division offers renewable technologies, smart metering services 
and energy brokerage to customers throughout the UK.
Revenue grew to £68.1m from £22.9m year on year and this was 
primarily due to our first full year of ownership of Everwarm, which 
we bought in April 2014. Previously, we had only a sub-scale 
presence in the English market. 
Improved labour utilisation afforded by a higher level of activity, 
together with a full year contribution from Everwarm and the  
Energy (South) business turning from loss to profit in the year,  
saw underlying EBITA margins rise from 12.1% to 14.1%. Providor 
and Orchard Energy made small contributions after integration 
costs and both have showed significant early opportunities.
In May 2015, the division expanded its nascent smart-meter 
installation business with the acquisition of Providor and in July 
2015 acquired Orchard Energy, a leading UK energy procurement 
and advisory service provider. We have made further progress 
expanding Energy Services in England including being appointed 
to the RE:NEW framework in London. RE:NEW is the Mayor’s 
programme to help make London’s homes more energy efficient 
and has the capacity to deliver up to £1.6bn of energy upgrades.  
In addition, we secured a place on both the Fusion 21 and Eastern 
Procurement frameworks for energy services. We are also gaining 
traction with local authority and social housing customers who wish 
to explore our solutions and ability to obtain funding for them from 
the major energy companies. Key highlights this year included 
£14m of new wins in London and the South East, including notable 
contracts with the London Borough of Camden and a three year 
contract with the London Borough of Brent. 
We have very strong relationships with five of the Big Six energy 
utility companies and the key independent energy utility companies, 
and continue to help them meet their environmental obligations.  
We have negotiated contract extensions into 2016 and developed 
relationships with several smaller independent utility companies, 
who will play a larger role in the coming years. We are already 
delivering contracts for energy saving measures and metering  
for these independent providers.
Providor is one of the UK’s leading smart-metering specialists.  
It complements our existing energy services offering by giving us 
critical mass in the high growth smart-metering market, which forms 
part of the Government’s £11bn scheme to upgrade the UK’s 
energy infrastructure and improve competition by 2020. We are 
pleased with the growth in Providor’s order book since acquisition, 
which includes a new 10 year contract with Ovo Energy.
Orchard Energy is a leading UK energy procurement and advisory 
service provider which works with corporate clients to manage their 
energy costs, particularly energy supply and usage. In addition, it 
provides energy management services to commercial and industrial 
customers including brokering supply with utilities firms, managing 
contracts and advising on energy consumption. The acquisition 
enhances our offering to social housing clients who are keen to 
address fuel poverty. We are now introducing Orchard Energy to 
our Regeneration customers who wish to explore how they and 
their residents can benefit from cheaper energy.
The Group holds a one-third share in the Warmworks joint venture 
along with Changeworks and the Energy Saving Trust. During the 
year, Warmworks was awarded a national fuel poverty scheme 
funded by the Scottish Government and worth up to £224m in  
total over a period of up to seven years. A proportion of this sum  
is being deployed directly on energy saving measures delivered  
by Everwarm. The contract started in September 2015, on target 
with the expectations set out by Scottish Government and initial 
volumes have been in line with expectations. 
The division has made good progress this year despite the  
energy sector experiencing some well publicised challenges in the 
period, particularly around UK Government policy towards energy 
efficiency and the funding policies that underpin the sector. As we 
moved into the final phase of current policy and the obligations 
placed on utility companies relaxed, we saw pressure on carbon 
prices impacting in the final quarter of the year, which had a 
consequential effect on margins. We expect 2016 to be a transition 
year from the existing energy company obligation to the new policy, 
which starts in April 2017. 
While acknowledging the challenges arising from this evolving 
market, we believe that the market drivers remain: to improve 
energy efficiency across the UK housing stock and address fuel 
poverty. To deliver such a wide and complex challenge will require 
organisations with the necessary expertise and bandwidth.  
We have strengthened our Energy Services offering accordingly  
by acquiring complementary businesses and extending our 
capabilities – we remain well positioned to deliver on our strategy.
Acquisitions since 1 October 2014
Orchard Energy
Energy procurement/advisory
Head office: Elland, West Yorkshire 
Year established: 2004
Date acquired: 13 July 2015
Employees: 78 (at time of acquisition)
Providor
Smart metering 
Head office: Newmarket
Year established: 1998
Date acquired: 6 May 2015
Employees: 130 (at time of acquisition)
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 28
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Divisional review 
continued Order book
Our bidding and estimating teams have continued to perform well, 
with new contract wins totalling £638m secured in the period. 
The focus on long term contractual relationships has led to all four 
divisions increasing the number of frameworks they are appointed 
to, which has in turn contributed to growth in our order book to 
£595m, an increase of £92m since December 2014.
Our sales pipeline remains robust at £2.8bn of identified  
Pre Qualification Questionnaire (‘PQQ’) and tender opportunities. 
The fragmented nature of our markets, combined with our still 
relatively small market share, underlines the scale of opportunity 
available to each of our divisions. 
In addition, a key driver for organic growth is our ability to 
cross-sell our services across the Group’s clients and we  
have identified a number from each division where we are 
introducing other services alongside those we are already 
successfully providing. 
Construction 
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying Revenue (£m) 73.4 78.5 (6.5)%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 4.8 2.5 90.5%
Underlying EBITA margin 6.6% 3.2% 340bps
The Construction division offers refurbishment and small to 
medium-sized public building works, predominantly for local 
authority clients. The division focuses primarily on clients  
in the education sector, although it also delivers works to a  
range of other public buildings.
Full year underlying revenues declined overall, reflecting the exit 
last year from our social housing development activities, further 
details of which are outlined in Notes 4 and 7. Our core education 
business grew by 12%, as we saw the benefit of higher value 
work secured on our frameworks in London. 
The improvement in underlying margins reflected our focus  
on small to medium-sized education projects, where we can 
effectively balance risk and return, along with the exit from our 
social housing development business (which generated a loss  
of £1.2m in the underlying results for 2014).
During the year, we were reappointed to the Hampshire County 
Council framework and secured a place on the Local Government 
Shared Services (LGSS) framework with Northamptonshire and 
Cambridgeshire County Councils. We were also appointed to  
the Kent County Council Principal Contractors framework, the 
Gloucester County Council Major Construction Contract and the 
South Hunsley National framework for small to medium works. 
We were pleased to secure the first two projects under the LGSS 
framework at Silverstone School and Radstone Fields School.  
We also saw the strengthening of relationships with London 
Borough of Richmond upon Thames, after winning the Russell 
and Strathmore School expansion project. We secured new 
schemes with Bromley Council at Midfield, Glebe and Edgebury 
Schools, two of which are under the Lewisham Pupil Places 
framework. There remains a large pipeline of opportunities  
for the division. 
Utilising the East London Solutions framework, we won contracts 
with Newham Council at Salisbury, West Ham Church and 
Ranalagh schools. We also successfully delivered the first 
London Construction Programme project at Bounds Green 
School. In addition, we secured our first projects for City of 
Westminster College (Maida Vale Campus) and Ellen Wilkinson 
School in Ealing.
A key driver for the division is the continued shortage of primary 
school places, which requires investment in new school buildings 
to meet demand. The scale of this demand means we are able to 
remain selective about the new opportunities we pursue. High 
customer satisfaction also leads to good levels of repeat business 
and we continue to secure new framework wins.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
29 B3 B8
G2
Key risks heat map
Impact
Likelihood
G2
B4
B8
B5
B7
B6
B3
B2
B1
G1
Tendering new work
Changing trends in client procurement
Changes to Government policy B1
B prefix indicates business specific risk
G prefix indicates general risk affecting a diversified Group
Notes: 
B2
Major health and safety incident
Acquisition selection and integration
People B6
B7
Poor operational delivery
Revenue recognition B4
B5 ICT failure
Financial liquidity G1
A key focus of our strategy is to reduce risk and build a 
sustainable and profitable business, with predictable  
revenues and increasing margins.
We therefore have a detailed and comprehensive risk 
management process, covering all aspects of business  
and operational risk. We constantly review our control and 
monitoring processes and our systems, and work closely  
with our customers, to understand how our marketplace  
is changing and how it’s likely to change in the future.
The table opposite details the main risks we currently face,  
their potential impact on our business and how we mitigate  
them. The heat map sets out each risk’s potential impact on  
our business prior to mitigation, its likelihood of occurring  
and the change in these factors during the year. 
More information about how we manage risk can be found  
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 55.
Risk Explanation of risk Mitigation
B1 Changes to Government policy
The public sector and regulated industries provide some 95% of 
our revenue, so our business is heavily dependant on UK, Scottish 
and local government policy. Energy Services in particular may be 
susceptible to changes in policy.
Significant changes to policy in these areas could have a 
detrimental impact on the Company’s strength and overall financial 
performance. Recent changes in the energy sector could have  
an impact on revenue and profit for the Energy Services business.
We have increased our business diversity and have four divisions 
with differing political dynamics. We also aim to continue 
increasing the proportion of our business derived from long term 
relationships, contracts and frameworks, rather than shorter term 
and less predictable construction projects. 
In particular, for Energy Services, we are limiting the risk by 
expanding our services beyond our core insulation and  
heating business.
B2 Changing trends in client procurement
Revenue in parts of our business may be impacted by clients 
changing their procurement approach with a growing trend 
towards tendering for frameworks with multiple participants. 
Works are then secured either by rotation or further mini 
competition.
This could result in fewer opportunities, weaker cash flows,  
lower margins, uncertainty in financial forecasting in parts  
of the business and additional resource in securing works  
on frameworks.
We have a diverse service offering, with a flexible approach to 
procurement and competition, thereby focusing on areas where 
we can win at an acceptable margin. Our bid teams carefully 
assess the requirements of all frameworks; using a commercial 
risk-based approach, we assess potential competition and monitor 
contract awards so we have a detailed understanding of the 
potential of a framework. We develop a track record based on 
proven delivery, in order to maximise the opportunities available 
under frameworks. The increased breadth of our business brought 
by new acquisitions is giving us access to a wider range of clients 
across a broader geographic base, thereby giving us a larger pool 
of work to target.
B3 Tendering for new work
We compete for work by tendering or negotiating directly with our 
customers. Our reputation, experience, accreditations, pricing and 
relationships all affect our ability to win work. We compete with 
local and international companies, some of which may have greater 
resources and capabilities.
If we do not compete effectively we may not win enough work or 
retain existing contracts, affecting our revenues, profits and cash.
We focus on developing strong customer relationships and having 
robust market intelligence. This enables us to understand customer 
needs and to bid effectively. We also have an experienced internal 
bidding function, so we can submit the best possible bids and 
maximise our chance of success. We are strategic in our approach 
to bidding, working well ahead of client procurement programmes. 
We have routine and regular bid meetings across the business 
which allow us to select target opportunities, ensuring focus and 
resource is directed to targeted tenders.
B4 Revenue recognition
In our industry, the valuation and recognition of revenue requires 
significant judgement by management. Our Construction division 
operates under long term fixed price contracts and our 
Regeneration division recognises revenue based on a valuation  
of the work in progress, with reference to a contracted schedule  
of rates. The valuation of revenue includes the determination of 
estimated costs to complete, amount of margin to be recognised 
and percentage of completion of work in progress.
We have multiple contracts that are the subject of such judgement 
and an error could lead to a material misstatement of both revenue 
and profit.
Each contract is staffed by a proven team of operators, partnered by 
experienced quantity surveyors who follow a set of clear and specific 
guidelines on contract valuations. Monthly valuations meetings are 
held between quantity surveyors and divisional Directors to update 
on project progress and assess the reasonableness of estimates 
made, an assessment of risk and, accordingly, a determination of 
cost to complete and margin based on percentage of completion to 
date. The process is overseen by Finance, whose task is to ensure 
risks are suitably factored into the valuation process. A monthly 
divisional operating board meeting is held between the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and divisional Directors to 
review performance in the month and a detailed report by contract 
reviewed for performance, risk and reasonableness.
B5 Poor operational delivery
Poor operational delivery could lead to a local loss in trust and 
reputation with a client or customer with a recoverable position. 
However, a material loss of service or event could result in the  
loss of a framework.
Poor operational performance leads to reputational loss and 
weaker financial performance.
We mitigate this risk by having qualified, trained people, managers 
and operatives who are experienced in their roles. We closely 
monitor quality, progress and service using industry standard 
products and are generating divisional KPIs to benchmark similar 
services. We have accredited processes and systems which are 
audited both internally and externally and reported to the 
accountable management teams. We have a robust approach to 
risk management from project level to Board, providing support and 
scrutiny to mitigate the risk. We have regular project audits and 
support visits by trained staff. Where we use supply chain partners 
we work with the teams, monitoring performance ensuring rapid 
resolution of issues as they arise.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 30
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
A key focus of our strategy is to 
reduce risk and build a sustainable 
and profitable business. Risk Explanation of risk Mitigation
B1 Changes to Government policy
The public sector and regulated industries provide some 95% of 
our revenue, so our business is heavily dependant on UK, Scottish 
and local government policy. Energy Services in particular may be 
susceptible to changes in policy.
Significant changes to policy in these areas could have a 
detrimental impact on the Company’s strength and overall financial 
performance. Recent changes in the energy sector could have  
an impact on revenue and profit for the Energy Services business.
We have increased our business diversity and have four divisions 
with differing political dynamics. We also aim to continue 
increasing the proportion of our business derived from long term 
relationships, contracts and frameworks, rather than shorter term 
and less predictable construction projects. 
In particular, for Energy Services, we are limiting the risk by 
expanding our services beyond our core insulation and  
heating business.
B2 Changing trends in client procurement
Revenue in parts of our business may be impacted by clients 
changing their procurement approach with a growing trend 
towards tendering for frameworks with multiple participants. 
Works are then secured either by rotation or further mini 
competition.
This could result in fewer opportunities, weaker cash flows,  
lower margins, uncertainty in financial forecasting in parts  
of the business and additional resource in securing works  
on frameworks.
We have a diverse service offering, with a flexible approach to 
procurement and competition, thereby focusing on areas where 
we can win at an acceptable margin. Our bid teams carefully 
assess the requirements of all frameworks; using a commercial 
risk-based approach, we assess potential competition and monitor 
contract awards so we have a detailed understanding of the 
potential of a framework. We develop a track record based on 
proven delivery, in order to maximise the opportunities available 
under frameworks. The increased breadth of our business brought 
by new acquisitions is giving us access to a wider range of clients 
across a broader geographic base, thereby giving us a larger pool 
of work to target.
B3 Tendering for new work
We compete for work by tendering or negotiating directly with our 
customers. Our reputation, experience, accreditations, pricing and 
relationships all affect our ability to win work. We compete with 
local and international companies, some of which may have greater 
resources and capabilities.
If we do not compete effectively we may not win enough work or 
retain existing contracts, affecting our revenues, profits and cash.
We focus on developing strong customer relationships and having 
robust market intelligence. This enables us to understand customer 
needs and to bid effectively. We also have an experienced internal 
bidding function, so we can submit the best possible bids and 
maximise our chance of success. We are strategic in our approach 
to bidding, working well ahead of client procurement programmes. 
We have routine and regular bid meetings across the business 
which allow us to select target opportunities, ensuring focus and 
resource is directed to targeted tenders.
B4 Revenue recognition
In our industry, the valuation and recognition of revenue requires 
significant judgement by management. Our Construction division 
operates under long term fixed price contracts and our 
Regeneration division recognises revenue based on a valuation  
of the work in progress, with reference to a contracted schedule  
of rates. The valuation of revenue includes the determination of 
estimated costs to complete, amount of margin to be recognised 
and percentage of completion of work in progress.
We have multiple contracts that are the subject of such judgement 
and an error could lead to a material misstatement of both revenue 
and profit.
Each contract is staffed by a proven team of operators, partnered by 
experienced quantity surveyors who follow a set of clear and specific 
guidelines on contract valuations. Monthly valuations meetings are 
held between quantity surveyors and divisional Directors to update 
on project progress and assess the reasonableness of estimates 
made, an assessment of risk and, accordingly, a determination of 
cost to complete and margin based on percentage of completion to 
date. The process is overseen by Finance, whose task is to ensure 
risks are suitably factored into the valuation process. A monthly 
divisional operating board meeting is held between the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and divisional Directors to 
review performance in the month and a detailed report by contract 
reviewed for performance, risk and reasonableness.
B5 Poor operational delivery
Poor operational delivery could lead to a local loss in trust and 
reputation with a client or customer with a recoverable position. 
However, a material loss of service or event could result in the  
loss of a framework.
Poor operational performance leads to reputational loss and 
weaker financial performance.
We mitigate this risk by having qualified, trained people, managers 
and operatives who are experienced in their roles. We closely 
monitor quality, progress and service using industry standard 
products and are generating divisional KPIs to benchmark similar 
services. We have accredited processes and systems which are 
audited both internally and externally and reported to the 
accountable management teams. We have a robust approach to 
risk management from project level to Board, providing support and 
scrutiny to mitigate the risk. We have regular project audits and 
support visits by trained staff. Where we use supply chain partners 
we work with the teams, monitoring performance ensuring rapid 
resolution of issues as they arise.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
31 Risk Explanation of risk Mitigation
B6 People
The success of our business depends on recruiting, retaining, 
motivating and developing the right people at all levels of  
our organisation.
If we do not have enough suitably skilled, experienced and 
engaged people we may not be able to deliver the service quality 
we have promised to our clients and customers or grow our 
business as quickly as we had planned.
We invest significant effort in developing our managers and training 
our employees. We work hard to make Lakehouse a Group people 
want to be part of, with a positive culture and opportunity to 
develop and learn. Our ‘Leadership at Lakehouse’ management 
course has been developed to nurture managerial talent and is now 
in its third year. We have an Employee Representative Council with 
members elected from all parts of the Group, ensuring that all of 
our people have a voice. We are constantly assessing our training 
needs, listening to staff and developing innovative solutions such as 
our in-house online training products. We actively seek out rising 
stars in the business and recognise and celebrate achievement.
B7 Acquisition selection and integration
Growth through acquisition in order to gain critical mass  
is an important part of our strategy. We need to ensure that  
the acquisition selection process satisfies the needs of the  
business and that the companies selected fit the desired criteria.
The consequence of a poor selection process could create 
friction within the management structure, poor integration and 
ultimately an acquired business which does not fit nor deliver  
on its anticipated potential for the Company and the Group, 
leading to a financial short fall. 
We spend a great deal of time identifying potential acquisitions, 
which must satisfy an unfilled need in our business strategy that 
could not be addressed organically. Negotiations are almost always 
conducted on a bilateral basis and include a significant ‘courtship’ 
process to ensure we feel comfortable with one another. We have  
a track record of successful acquisitions and are building on that 
invaluable experience. We also have a dedicated and experienced 
Director responsible for integration of the new acquisitions. We use 
a detailed plan based on agreed priorities with key milestones so 
we can integrate in a controlled and managed way.
B8 Major health and safety incident
We provide our services in a range of potentially high risk 
environments: working in homes, public buildings, at height, with 
water, electrical and gas services and lone operatives in vans.
There is potential for a major health and safety incident within the 
environment in which we work which could have significant impact 
on a person or people either directly, indirectly or not involved with 
the works we are undertaking. 
We could incur reputational loss or civil and criminal costs due to 
a health and safety incident.
Health and safety is managed throughout our business. We have  
a dedicated health and safety team who have an open remit to 
attend any site, any time and offer support or audit. We have a 
robust UKAS accredited Health and Safety Management system 
which is administered by an independent centralised team.  
We have mandatory training standards driven by job roles with  
a centralised training team who monitor and maintain training 
standards. We have a health and safety culture which is owned  
by the Managing Directors of the divisions. The strategy is set at 
the annual Safety Core Group which is attended by all Managing 
Directors and our CEO.
G1 Financial liquidity
We rely on the continued support of our banking partners to ensure 
we have the necessary funds to trade on a day to day basis and 
pursue the Group’s growth strategy. We have periods in the year 
where there is a peak in working capital needs, predominantly 
around the timing of work instructed by our clients, which require 
short term funding. 
Were we to lose funding support, we could face short term cash 
shortfalls and limit our ability to grow and develop the Group or 
settle our liabilities as they fell due.
We maintain excellent relationships with our bankers, maintaining 
regular dialogue on matters pertaining to trading and risk in the 
Group. We maintain a strict internal review process on covenant 
compliance to ensure we remain in line with the requirements of  
our banking documents. In the year, we put in place a new revolving 
credit facility for £30m, replacing our former amortising term loan. 
Following year end, we increased the revolving credit facility for 
£45m, to ensure we have sufficient funds to pursue our long term 
growth aims.
G2 ICT failure
Our business is 24/7 and relies on a robust ICT infrastructure  
and service. 
An ICT failure could cause business interruption or loss of 
services which could impact local delivery, reputation and 
ultimately have financial consequences.
We maintain a Group ICT strategy which is designed to support 
the existing business needs and provide an ICT infrastructure 
which is fit for purpose. We invest in resource and technology  
to ensure that the business is protected, such as back-up and 
disaster recovery processes to ensure minimum disruption.  
We have business continuity processes for a range of events  
and audit these processes.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 32
Principal risks  
and uncertainties 
continued Risk Explanation of risk Mitigation
B6 People
The success of our business depends on recruiting, retaining, 
motivating and developing the right people at all levels of  
our organisation.
If we do not have enough suitably skilled, experienced and 
engaged people we may not be able to deliver the service quality 
we have promised to our clients and customers or grow our 
business as quickly as we had planned.
We invest significant effort in developing our managers and training 
our employees. We work hard to make Lakehouse a Group people 
want to be part of, with a positive culture and opportunity to 
develop and learn. Our ‘Leadership at Lakehouse’ management 
course has been developed to nurture managerial talent and is now 
in its third year. We have an Employee Representative Council with 
members elected from all parts of the Group, ensuring that all of 
our people have a voice. We are constantly assessing our training 
needs, listening to staff and developing innovative solutions such as 
our in-house online training products. We actively seek out rising 
stars in the business and recognise and celebrate achievement.
B7 Acquisition selection and integration
Growth through acquisition in order to gain critical mass  
is an important part of our strategy. We need to ensure that  
the acquisition selection process satisfies the needs of the  
business and that the companies selected fit the desired criteria.
The consequence of a poor selection process could create 
friction within the management structure, poor integration and 
ultimately an acquired business which does not fit nor deliver  
on its anticipated potential for the Company and the Group, 
leading to a financial short fall. 
We spend a great deal of time identifying potential acquisitions, 
which must satisfy an unfilled need in our business strategy that 
could not be addressed organically. Negotiations are almost always 
conducted on a bilateral basis and include a significant ‘courtship’ 
process to ensure we feel comfortable with one another. We have  
a track record of successful acquisitions and are building on that 
invaluable experience. We also have a dedicated and experienced 
Director responsible for integration of the new acquisitions. We use 
a detailed plan based on agreed priorities with key milestones so 
we can integrate in a controlled and managed way.
B8 Major health and safety incident
We provide our services in a range of potentially high risk 
environments: working in homes, public buildings, at height, with 
water, electrical and gas services and lone operatives in vans.
There is potential for a major health and safety incident within the 
environment in which we work which could have significant impact 
on a person or people either directly, indirectly or not involved with 
the works we are undertaking. 
We could incur reputational loss or civil and criminal costs due to 
a health and safety incident.
Health and safety is managed throughout our business. We have  
a dedicated health and safety team who have an open remit to 
attend any site, any time and offer support or audit. We have a 
robust UKAS accredited Health and Safety Management system 
which is administered by an independent centralised team.  
We have mandatory training standards driven by job roles with  
a centralised training team who monitor and maintain training 
standards. We have a health and safety culture which is owned  
by the Managing Directors of the divisions. The strategy is set at 
the annual Safety Core Group which is attended by all Managing 
Directors and our CEO.
G1 Financial liquidity
We rely on the continued support of our banking partners to ensure 
we have the necessary funds to trade on a day to day basis and 
pursue the Group’s growth strategy. We have periods in the year 
where there is a peak in working capital needs, predominantly 
around the timing of work instructed by our clients, which require 
short term funding. 
Were we to lose funding support, we could face short term cash 
shortfalls and limit our ability to grow and develop the Group or 
settle our liabilities as they fell due.
We maintain excellent relationships with our bankers, maintaining 
regular dialogue on matters pertaining to trading and risk in the 
Group. We maintain a strict internal review process on covenant 
compliance to ensure we remain in line with the requirements of  
our banking documents. In the year, we put in place a new revolving 
credit facility for £30m, replacing our former amortising term loan. 
Following year end, we increased the revolving credit facility for 
£45m, to ensure we have sufficient funds to pursue our long term 
growth aims.
G2 ICT failure
Our business is 24/7 and relies on a robust ICT infrastructure  
and service. 
An ICT failure could cause business interruption or loss of 
services which could impact local delivery, reputation and 
ultimately have financial consequences.
We maintain a Group ICT strategy which is designed to support 
the existing business needs and provide an ICT infrastructure 
which is fit for purpose. We invest in resource and technology  
to ensure that the business is protected, such as back-up and 
disaster recovery processes to ensure minimum disruption.  
We have business continuity processes for a range of events  
and audit these processes.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
33 Lakehouse has a responsible business strategy, which covers 
how we invest in our people, support local economies through  
our customer and supplier relationships, develop our communities 
and champion environmental sustainability. This reflects our belief 
that fully investing in a responsible business model and targeting 
economic, social and environmental change helps to differentiate 
us in increasingly competitive markets.
Workplace
Health and safety
Protecting the health and safety of our people is a priority.  
We have a training programme called the Lakehouse Health and 
Safety Legacy, which we believe exceeds standards common to 
the industry and is essential for all employees. We also make this 
training available to some of our contractors and their employees, 
at a subsidised rate.
In 2015, we formed a Group Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE) network, to share best practice and introduce 
improvements and risk reduction plans across the business.  
This powerful network is already making a difference at the 
frontline. It has improved compliance with our training 
requirements and is bringing a consistent Group-wide  
approach to audit. 
Our health and safety champions coordinate employee 
consultations and communication across the Group. They use 
forums such as our intranet ‘Lakehouse World’ and our SHE 
network to discuss safety strategy, review health and safety 
projects and reflect on industry and regulatory changes. Our 
champions have been instrumental in raising the profile of health 
and safety and making sure it is built into everything we do.
We report our health and safety performance to the Board each 
month. In 2014/15, our AIR was 98.62 which was substantially 
below our target of 151.
Recruitment and retention
The recovering labour market, particularly in London and the 
South East, makes recruitment and retention an important area  
for us. We are addressing this in a number of ways, including a 
graduate recruitment programme which targets people who can 
grow with us. We have also put career structures in place and 
identified successors for key roles, so people can see how they 
can develop within the Group.
During the year, we introduced flexible benefits, which allow  
our people to shape their rewards to their personal needs. We 
monitor our performance through our management retention rate. 
This was 87.7% for the year, against a target of 85%.
The shift to a self-delivery model is changing the shape of our 
employee base, as we employ more people who deliver frontline 
services. This requires us to review our approach to motivation 
and retention and tailor training and rewards to meet the needs  
of all our people.
Our culture
We want to be a business with ‘head’ and ‘heart’ in equal 
measure. Head means we are commercially successful and 
astute, and that we deliver our commitments. Heart means that 
we invest in our people and treat everyone decently.
We have four values – passion, care, keeping promises and 
responsibility – which are integral to our culture. We use these 
values in our inductions, to illustrate how we work, and in our 
performance reviews, which assess both what our people  
have achieved and how they did it.
Training and development
Our investment in training and development incorporates all types 
of professional skills. We actively encourage our employees to 
propose their own ideas for personal development. 
Leadership training for the next generation of Lakehouse Leaders 
is a continuous process, built around our Company values and the 
‘Lakehouse Way’. This training is a key focus, to ensure we have 
the pipeline of talent to continue to grow our business.
We invest in people at all levels, ranging from apprenticeship 
programmes and non-vocational qualifications through to 
supporting employees studying for degrees. This reflects  
our belief that developing our people benefits both them and  
our business.
Diversity
We value diversity and recognise the benefits that people of 
different genders and backgrounds can bring. Our approach  
is to ensure that all our people have equal opportunities to 
advance their careers within the Group.
The table below analyses our employees by gender:
At 30 Sep 2015 At 30 Sep 2014
Male Female Male Female
Board 6 1 n/a n/a
Leadership team 95 30 85 21
Other employees 1,355 422 853 267
Total 1,456 453 938 288
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 34
Resources, relationships 
and sustainability Employee representation
Lakehouse has an Employee Representative Council (ERC), 
made up of elected employees from across the Group. Its main 
aims are to encourage employee engagement and involvement, 
gather views and comments so that employees have a say on 
Company policies, provide feedback on the services we provide 
and give employees the opportunity to influence the future 
direction of Lakehouse. The ERC has taken part in a wide range 
of initiatives during the last 12 months, including consultations  
on new policies and the launch of our Flexible Benefits Scheme 
which has been introduced to reward and engage our growing 
workforce. The ERC has been instrumental in ensuring that our 
benefits programme is right for our employees. 
Human rights
Although we do not believe human rights are a significant issue  
for our business, we are committed to protecting the rights of  
our people and those who come into contact with our business. 
To support this commitment, we have policies covering key  
areas such as grievances, harassment and bullying at work,  
equal opportunities and dignity, professional conduct and 
behaviour, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
Marketplace
We believe that strong relationships with our customers,  
suppliers and subcontractors are vital for creating a long term, 
sustainable business, which also supports our local economies.  
A key part of this is understanding our customers’ and suppliers’ 
priorities and areas of focus. We therefore work hard to ensure 
that our relationships are transparent and beneficial for everyone. 
We do this by mapping the different types of communication and 
interaction involved in our service, so we can establish new and 
better ways to deliver and make a bigger impact on people’s lives.
The Lakehouse Employee Representative Council is an elected body  
of staff from across the Group. They have participated in a wide array  
of projects over the past 12 months including consultation on new 
policies which have since been introduced and the launch of the  
Flexible Benefits Scheme.
Customers
We monitor customer satisfaction for each of our businesses 
every month and report the results to the Board. This ensures we 
are consistently delivering the standard of service our customers 
demand and identifies where there may be issues to address.  
Our target is customer satisfaction above 90% and we achieved 
an average rate of 93% for the year. 
We also track our success with pre-qualifications and tenders  
by business. This shows the quality of our tenders and our 
understanding of our customers’ needs. 
During the year, we continued to roll out our award-winning 
‘Customer Journey’ initiative which focuses on improving 
behaviours across all our interactions with our customers. We use 
behavioural management training techniques in customer service, 
which has had a significant impact on our customers and has the 
potential to separate us from our competitors. We also manage all 
customer-related complaints and queries through the dedicated 
customer services team, ensuring we resolve them promptly.
Supply chain
Our supply chain is crucial to our business. Construction  
and Regeneration (South) both deliver services through 
subcontractors and we also rely on our suppliers for high-quality 
materials, so we can meet our commitments to our customers. 
Our Procurement team helps us to purchase efficiently and  
cost effectively. It works across the Group to reduce cost and  
to improve service and supply chain management. All of our 
companies are now included in Group-wide procurement 
activities and we are negotiating further purchasing agreements 
as part of our procurement strategy. The team’s work with our 
supply chain to reduce waste and enhance relationships was 
recognised by its nomination for an award from the Chartered 
Institute of Procurement and Supply.
Increased activity in the construction sector has contributed to a 
shortage of materials and subcontractors in the South East. We 
have mitigated a number of problems by working more closely 
with our project teams, manufacturers and merchants, to improve 
lead times and give more details of our future requirements.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
35 We also use our purchasing decisions to have a positive influence 
and to help small and local businesses to grow. This includes  
fair payment terms, free or subsidised training, ensuring our 
procurement process is locally accessible and encouraging 
innovation in our supply chain. In addition, we consider social, 
environmental and economic challenges when deciding what  
and where to buy.
Brands
Lakehouse has a well-respected and long-established brand, 
based on our reputation for service. The companies we acquire 
also typically have strong brands in their markets. To maximise  
the value we gain from these brands, we generally retain the 
acquired company’s name but reinforce the Lakehouse brand  
by badging as part of the Lakehouse Group.
Community
We are dedicated to creating desirable, successful and cohesive 
communities. This means playing our part in making them 
sustainable places to live and work. Our work in the community 
falls into the following areas:
Education and young people: we offer mentoring programmes 
and education partnerships, working strategically with local 
schools to provide support and increase young people's 
educational aspirations and skills.
Employment and skills: we provide apprenticeships, 
employment and skills development for residents in our 
communities.
Social impact and community infrastructure: we champion  
and support resident and community-led initiatives that tackle  
key social issues, such as crime, anti-social behaviour, digital  
and financial inclusion, and health and wellbeing.
Being deeply involved in our communities has always been 
fundamental to how we operate. Some of our local authority 
customers require us to deliver social value through our  
contracts with them – such as committing to job creation or 
apprenticeships. We take the same approach in every area we 
work in. Our Corporate Responsibility Manager, aided by our 
network of community development champions around the 
business, helps us to put our communities at the centre of  
all we do. Our champions coordinate connections between  
our communities and our operational teams, who deliver our  
day to day services. This creates local accountability for  
delivering social value through our projects.
In addition, we encourage all our employees to donate their  
time and expertise during work hours, to tackle local social 
issues. We aim to ensure that all volunteering is focused on  
our key community development themes.
Environment
A key part of our business strategy is to consider, manage  
and measure the way our work streams can affect the natural 
environment. We therefore monitor potential environmental 
impacts, promote environmental awareness to employees and 
reduce risks where possible. We measure environmental risks 
and opportunities across the Group, backed up by training, 
awareness and support. We aim to identify any potential risks  
as a preventative measure and to control our impact on the 
environments in which we work. 
Health and safety is a priority and we believe our training programme, the 
Lakehouse Legacy, exceeds industry standards. We share best practice, 
drive improvement and strive to reduce risk through our dedicated Group 
network and we’re already seeing a difference at the frontline. 
We’re focusing on recruitment and retention by having launched a 
graduate recruitment programme which targets people who can grow 
with us and develop their careers at Lakehouse. We’ve also put career 
structures in place, identified successors for key roles and introduced 
flexible benefits.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 36
Resources, relationships 
and sustainability 
continued Our key environmental areas of focus are energy efficiency, 
carbon management and waste diversion. We monitor all of these 
aspects, analyse the results and set targets to ensure continual 
improvement. Supporting this is our environmental management 
system, which we communicate to all employees.
Group energy consumption
We monitor energy use at all levels across the Group.  
Since we implemented our Energy Management System,  
we can now monitor energy use in-depth on a monthly basis,  
and assess the results in both kWh and CO2e. We communicate 
this information internally and to the Board each month, and  
set energy targets and objectives to reduce our overall energy 
consumption. Our Energy Management action plan helps us 
remain focused on areas of improvement across the Group.
Our carbon footprint for 2014/15 was 5,349.8 tonnes of  
CO2e (Scope 1: 4,862.5 tonnes and Scope 2: 487.3 tonnes). 
This equates to 16 tonnes per £1m of revenue or 2.8 tonnes  
per Group employee. 
Waste management
Waste management is vital for ensuring we do not negatively 
affect the environment. We aim to divert at least 90% of  
waste from landfill and therefore recycle as much as possible.  
We ensure we use licensed waste removal companies,  
who divert high percentage levels of waste from landfill.
This year we have achieved an average recycling and diversion 
from landfill rate of 96%, with some sites managing rates of  
up to 98%. We believe we are setting the bar high, in terms  
of waste management and diversion.
Our Procurement team works with all our companies to reduce  
cost and risk, and to improve service and supply chain management.  
Our success is reflected in the nomination for Most Improved Supply 
Chain in the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply’s Awards,  
as a result of the team’s work with our supply chain to reduce waste  
and enhance relationships.
Our investment in training and development incorporates all types  
of professional skills, ranging from apprenticeship programmes  
and non-vocational qualifications through to supporting employees  
studying for degrees.
Leadership and governance
The Board’s role in being a responsible business
The Board is directly responsible for implementing our 
responsible business agenda. This includes:
 — Ensuring our wider responsibilities are understood within 
Lakehouse and in the marketplace
 — Conveying how a responsible approach adds long term  
value to our business
 — Actively demonstrating a commitment to responsible  
business practice, by creating and championing a responsible 
business culture
 — Regularly reviewing our short and long term commitments
The Responsible Business Steering Group
The steering group is a formal, dedicated committee, which 
champions our commitment to responsible business with our 
employees and our key external stakeholders. It meets quarterly  
to review our progress and plans.
Our Group Director of HR, Marketing and CR, leads the steering 
group and reports directly to the Board. She is closely supported 
by members of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
Marketing and Safety, Health, Environment and Quality teams. 
The steering group meets regularly with key stakeholders, to 
ensure our approach to responsible business is pro-active,  
and responds to and reflects the needs of our customers  
and partners.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
37  
 
This was a successful  
year for Lakehouse as  
we delivered our maiden 
results in line with our 
expectations. The year has 
been significant, delivering 
strong growth whilst 
managing the inevitable 
demands of completing 
our IPO. 
Jeremy Simpson
Chief Financial Officer
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 38
Financial  
review  Trading performance
Year ended 30 September
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change 
%
Revenue
Regeneration 161.7 172.6 (6.3)%
Compliance 36.6 32.2 13.9%
Energy Services 68.1 22.9 196.6%
Construction 73.4 78.5 (6.5)%
Inter-segment elimination (3.2) (3.7) –
Underlying Group revenue 336.6 302.5 11.3%
Revenue from loss-making 
contracts on businesses being 
exited (Construction division)* 3.6 – –
Revenue 340.2 302.5 12.5%
Year ended 30 September
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change 
%
Underlying EBITA
Regeneration 10.5 9.3 13.4%
Compliance 4.5 2.5 77.0%
Energy Services 9.6 2.8 244.1%
Construction 4.8 2.5 90.5%
Central costs (7.2) (6.3) 13.9%
Group underlying EBITA 22.2 10.8 105.6%
Exceptional and other items* (17.6) (9.5) –
Operating profit 4.6 1.3 251.4%
Year ended 30 September
2015
%
2014
%
Change 
bps
Underlying EBITA %
Regeneration 6.5% 5.4% 110bps
Compliance 12.3% 7.9% 440bps
Energy Services 14.1% 12.1% 200bps
Construction 6.6% 3.2% 340bps
Central costs (2.1)% (2.1)% 0bps
Group underlying EBITA 6.6% 3.6% 300bps
* Detailed further in Notes 4 and 7.
Underlying Group revenue in the year increased by 1 1.3% to £336.6m 
(2014: £302.5m), with organic revenue growth of 2.5%. Organic 
revenue excludes the impact of acquisitions in the year (specifically 
H2O Nationwide, Providor, Orchard Energy and Sure Maintenance), 
together with the annualised impact of the prior year acquisition of 
Everwarm and the exit from our social housing development activities. 
Revenue was £340.2m (2014: £302.5m), with the £3.6m difference 
to underlying revenue relating to revenues earned in the year from 
loss-making contracts on businesses being exited in our former social 
housing development activities (which sits in the Construction segment).
Group underlying EBITA rose by 105.6% to £22.2m (2014: £10.8m) 
to give an underlying EBITA margin of 6.6% (2014: 3.6%). Underlying 
EBITA excludes the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, contract 
losses on businesses being exited and exceptional items, which the 
Board believes provides a more appropriate view of our underlying 
operating performance. Organic EBITA growth was 50.0% (defined 
again as in revenue above). Operating profit rose to £4.6m, from £1.3m 
in the prior year.
The significantly improved Group underlying EBITA reflects progression 
in every division arising from operational improvements and a focus 
on higher margin work, producing an improve margin mix.
Regeneration
Full year revenues declined by £10.9m (6.3%) from £172.6m to 
£161.7m year on year. This reflects the Hackney Homes framework 
coming to maturity in the year, which had a 6.8% adverse impact 
on year on year revenues. We were pleased to see the new organic 
businesses in Regeneration (North) and responsive business in 
Regeneration (East) make a positive contribution in the second  
half of the year, as both reached profitability. 
Underlying EBITA margins improved from 5.4% to 6.5% as a result 
of focusing on smaller frameworks where we could earn stronger 
returns, coupled with an improved operational performance. 
Compliance
Full year revenues improved by £4.4m from £32.2m to £36.6m, 
representing an increase of 13.9%. The acquisition of our water 
and air business, H2O Nationwide, completed on 3 October 2014, 
and so provided a full year contribution. The acquisition of Sure 
Maintenance in September 2015 provided a small contribution, 
given its timing prior to year end. The acquisitions of Aaron Services 
and Precision Lifts both came after year end and, as such, made 
no contribution in the year.
Margins improved from 7.9% to 12.3% reflecting an improvement in 
business mix, particularly the contribution of water and air services, 
along with a number of high margin projects. The division also did 
not have the scale of new contract mobilisation experienced in the 
prior year and so saw a lower impact of such costs.
Energy Services
Full year revenues increased by 196.6%, from £22.9m to £68.1m. 
This reflected primarily the full year impact of Everwarm (acquired 
in April 2014), together with, to a lesser extent, the acquisitions of 
Providor in May 2015 and Orchard Energy in July 2015. The division 
grew 50% on an organic basis, reflecting the mobilisation of our 
Energy Services offering in England and a strong second half 
performance from Everwarm as we emerged strongly from a  
slow period over the winter. 
Underlying EBITA margins grew from 12.1% to 14.1% in the year, 
reflecting the improved labour utilisation afforded by a higher level of 
activity, together with a full year contribution from Everwarm and the 
Energy (South) business turning from loss to profit in the year. Providor 
and Orchard Energy made small contributions after integration costs 
and both have showed significant early opportunities.
We have seen significant change in the market for energy subsidies 
during the year and towards the end of the period an ensuing 
reduction in the prices we received for carbon. We believe the breadth 
of offering we have developed through the three acquisitions, together 
with the organic opportunities we are realising, particularly with social 
housing clients in the developing English market, leaves us well placed 
to adapt to changes in the energy market. While not immune to further 
changes that may arise in the markets we have built an infrastructure 
that is strong and can help both Government and our social housing 
clients address the multiple challenges of budgetary limitations, at  
the same time as having to meet targets for carbon emissions and  
fight fuel poverty. 
Construction
Full year underlying revenues declined by £5.1m (6.5%) from 
£78.5m to £73.4m and underlying EBITA improved by £2.3m 
(90.5%) from £2.5m to £4.8m, reflecting the closure of our social 
housing development activities last year, further details of which are 
outlined in Notes 4 and 7. Our core education business grew by 
12.0%, as we saw the benefit of higher value work secured on our 
frameworks in London. We seek to grow our construction activities 
on a selective basis, where we can achieve an appropriate balance 
of risk and reward.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
39 Central costs
Central costs increased 13.9%, from £6.3m in 2014 to £7.2m  
in 2015. This reflects the additional costs associated with being  
a listed company, together with additional support costs for the 
acquisitions we made in the year.
Exceptional and other items, including amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles
Exceptional and other items in the year related to the following:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contract losses on businesses being exited 2.5  – 
Exceptional items:
Acquisition costs 0.8  0.7 
Contract costs 2.9 3.0
Disposal of subsidiary business –  0.1 
Restructuring 0.8 –
IPO costs 4.2 0.6 
Total exceptional items 8.7 4.4
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 6.4 5.1
Operating loss impact of exceptional 
and other items 17.6 9.5
Accelerated amortisation of financing costs 0.4 –
Unwinding discount of deferred 
consideration  0.4  0.5 
Loss before tax impact of exceptional 
and other items 18.4 10.0
Imputed taxation credit (3.3)  (0.8) 
Loss after tax impact of exceptional  
and other items 15.1 9.2
Exceptional and other items in the year reduced the Group’s profit 
before tax by £18.4m and related to the following items:
Contract losses on businesses being exited
Contract losses on businesses being exited of £2.5m (2014: £nil) 
represent further losses incurred on certain legacy contracts of our 
now ceased social housing development business. The associated 
revenues on these contracts was £3.6m. In the prior year, a loss of 
£1.2m was incurred in the social housing development business, 
which was treated as part of underlying activities in that year.
Exceptional items
Acquisition costs comprise legal, professional and other 
expenditure in relation to acquisition activity during the year  
and amounted to £0.8m (2014: £0.7m). 
Contract costs relate to exceptional remediation expenses 
associated with the resolution of historic matters on a specific 
contract. The amount of £2.9m above represents the cost of 
additional unforeseen work undertaken over and above the  
£3.0m provided in the year ended 30 September 2014. 
Restructuring costs of £0.8m (2014: £nil) relate to redundancy 
costs, the write-off of certain fixed assets and legal fees in relation 
to reshaping the Group structure during the year post IPO.
IPO costs of £4.2m (2014: £0.6m) comprise legal, professional 
and incidental expenditure incurred in relation to the IPO. We also 
transferred £1.3m of costs to the share premium account at the 
half year. 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
When we acquire businesses, we estimate the value of their 
intangible assets following a review of the following: business 
drivers, statutory accounts, completion accounts and share 
purchase agreement, as well as holding discussions with local 
management. As with our four previous acquisitions, the 
intangible asset is made up of three identified categories: 
contracted work, customer relations and non-compete agreement. 
The relative values of each depend on the number and value of 
long term contracts, wider commercial relationships and legal 
terms of the acquisition agreement. 
Acquisition intangibles are recognised separately in the Group 
balance sheet and are amortised over their assessed useful life, 
which is typically between three and five years. We exclude this 
amortisation charge from our calculation of underlying EBITA, 
because the Board does not consider that the cost is appropriate 
in understanding our underlying operating performance.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles was £6.4m for the year 
(2014: £5.1m), with the increase reflecting the full year effect  
of Everwarm, together with the acquisitions of H2O Nationwide, 
Providor, Orchard Energy and Sure Maintenance during the year.
The balance of the difference between acquisition price, less 
acquisition intangibles and net assets acquired, is held as 
goodwill on the balance sheet. Goodwill is reviewed annually  
for impairment, based on trading projections sourced from the 
Group’s three year plan. The Board concluded that none of our 
acquisitions necessitated impairment during the year.
Accelerated amortisation of financing costs 
Finance costs of £0.4m (2014: £nil) represent the acceleration  
of unamortised costs on the term loan we replaced with a new 
revolving credit facility in December 2014, ahead of the IPO. 
Unwinding discount of deferred consideration
The unwinding discount of deferred consideration is a non-
operating sum of £0.4m (2014: £0.5m) relating to the unwinding 
of discounts on deferred consideration payable for acquisitions.
Accounting treatment
The costs discussed above are considered non-trading because 
they are not part of the underlying trading of the Group and (aside 
from amortisation of acquisition intangibles and unwinding discount 
of deferred consideration) are not expected to recur year to year.
Cash impact
The main cash impact of the above contract losses on businesses 
being exited, contract costs and restructuring costs are expected 
to occur within one year. The other costs were either non-cash in 
nature or their impact occurred during the year.
Finance expense
The total finance expense for the year represented the interest 
charged on our debt facilities (net of finance income), together 
with the amortisation of debt raising costs, which totalled £0.6m 
(2014: £0.7m).
Our revolving credit facility was undrawn at year end. At the date 
of issuing this report we had drawn £23m, principally to finance 
the purchase of Aaron Heating Services Limited and Precision 
Lift Services Limited, along with £3.4m for deferred consideration 
payments due to the former owners of Allied Protection Limited 
and H2O Nationwide Limited. 
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 40
Financial  
review  
continued We took the opportunity to renegotiate our banking facilities with 
Royal Bank of Scotland in December 2015 to secure a revolving 
credit facility of £45m (increased from £30m) for deployment in 
future corporate development activity. 
Tax
The tax charge on underlying profit before tax of £21.6m was 
£4.1m, representing an effective rate of 19.0%, which compares 
with the statutory corporation tax rate of 20.5%. The difference 
was due to a settlement of items relating to the prior year.
The effective tax rate on statutory profit before tax for the year  
was 25.5%, the difference to the statutory rate being due to some 
£2.1m of exceptional items that were considered non-deductible 
for tax purposes.
Our cash tax payment for the year was £1.9m, compared to  
a statutory charge of £0.8m. The cash payment related to the 
timing of quarterly tax payments from the prior year. In the year,  
we utilised some £2.9m of a £5.9m tax credit, which arose on  
the exercise of share options at the time of the IPO and were 
eligible for Group tax relief. The difference between our cash  
and statutory charge was taken to reserves.
The remaining tax credit relates to a single Group company and 
may be utilised over a period of greater than one financial year.
Year ended 30 September (£m)
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying EBITA 22.2 10.8
Less:
Exceptional and other items 17.6 9.5
Finance expense 1.4 1.2
Tax 0.8 0.5
Profit/(loss) after tax 2.4 (0.4)
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share were 13.7p (2014: 1 1.7p), based 
on underlying earnings of £17.5m (2014: £8.8m). Underlying 
earnings are stated after adding back £15.1m of exceptional  
and other items (after tax), as outlined above.
Our statutory earnings for the period were £2.4m (2014: £(0.4)m). 
Based on the weighted average number of shares in issue during 
the year of 127.8m, this resulted in basic earnings per share of 1.9p 
(2014: (0.5)p).
Further details are contained in Note 13.
Dividend
The Board has proposed a dividend of 1.9p per share in respect  
of the second half of the financial year. Subject to approval at the 
AGM, this will be paid on 8 February 2016 to shareholders on  
the register at the close of business on 8 January 2016.
Provisions 
Provisions as at 30 September 2015 stood at £6.4m 
(30 September 2014: £6.7m). During the year, we utilised  
£3.3m of provisions in line with our expectations, predominantly 
£2.4m in relation to specific contract costs (discussed in 
exceptional items above) and £0.5m in relation to share costs 
utilised as part of the share restructuring process around the IPO. 
We provided a further £2.9m in relation to specific contract costs 
(as outlined in Note 7) and recognised £0.8m as part of fair value 
accounting on acquisitions.
Further details are contained in Note 24.
Cash flow performance
Our operating cash flow for the year was £19.1m (2014: £15.3m) 
and £25.6m (2014: £15.5m) after taking account of the cash 
impact of exceptional and other items. This resulted in a strong 
underlying cash conversion of 115% (2014: 143%).
We calculate operating cash conversion as cash generated from 
operations, plus the cash impact of exceptional and other items, 
divided by underlying EBITA. We believe this measure provides a 
consistent basis for comparing cash generation consistently over time. 
We managed working capital very tightly in the year, resulting in a 
positive movement of £5.9m. Our packaged subcontractor model 
still maintains a significant influence over cash dynamics for the 
Group and we saw a benefit in the year. 
As the Group grows, we will need to continue to invest in working 
capital; in particular, the timing of revenues, method of contract 
delivery and customer contractual terms can all have an impact  
on cash conversion. Generally, as revenues rise under a packaged 
subcontractor model, there is a cash benefit, as we are paid more 
quickly by our clients than we pay our supply chain; conversely as 
revenues fall, we may find payments to subcontractors do not fall in 
proportion to lower revenues, resulting in a cash outflow. We are 
increasingly employing a direct labour model, which attracts higher 
margins, but involves a shorter working capital cycle, as we carry 
higher levels of inventory and pay the workforce more quickly than 
packaged subcontractors. Clients are increasingly seeking later 
payment terms, in particular pushing for payment on completion  
of work, rather than in stages. 
After factoring in the matters highlighted above, together with  
the impact of the exceptional and other items in the balance sheet 
at year end, we expect to continue to target an average annual 
operating cash conversion of 80% over the long term.
Our net cash balance stood at £6.6m and we had no debt at 
30 September 2015.
Corporate development
During the year, we made four acquisitions. These were:
 — H2O Nationwide Limited in October 2014, for an initial cash 
consideration of £4.9m (including £2.1m of net cash received), 
fixed deferred payments of £1.4m and a contingent deferred 
consideration estimated at £0.9m (capped at £2.0m)
 — Providor Limited in May 2015, for an initial cash consideration of 
£5.6m (including £0.8m of net cash received) and a contingent 
deferred consideration estimated at £1.5m (capped at £2.0m) 
 — Orchard (Holdings) UK in July 2015, for an initial cash 
consideration of £8.9m (including £1.9m of net cash received) 
and a contingent deferred consideration estimated at £1.6m 
(capped at £3.0m)
 — Sure Maintenance Group, for an initial cash consideration  
of £7.3m (including £0.8m of cash and cash equivalents 
received) and a contingent deferred consideration estimated  
at £0.5m (capped at £2.35m)
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
41 All amounts are stated net of discounting to present values as  
at 30 September 2015 and net cash received is net of working 
capital adjustments.
We made a further two acquisitions after the year end:
 — Aaron Heating Services Limited in November 2015, for an 
initial cash consideration of £6.7m and a contingent deferred 
consideration, capped at £3.3m
 — Precision Lift Services Limited in December 2015, for an initial 
cash consideration of £5.5m and a contingent deferred 
consideration, capped at £3.0m
Deferred consideration
During the year, we made further fixed deferred consideration 
payments in relation to Foster Property Maintenance and Allied 
Protection. The table below shows the total discounted deferred 
consideration payable and the amount outstanding at the year end. 
£7.2m of the deferred consideration outstanding at year-end is 
contingent on future earnings of the businesses acquired.
Acquired business
At 30 Sep
2014
£m
Additions
(payments,
including
discounting)
£m
At 30 Sep
2015
£m
Foster Property Maintenance 9.6 (9.6) –
Allied Protection 3.5 (0.2) 3.3
H2O Nationwide – 2.3 2.3
Providor – 1.5 1.5
Orchard Energy – 1.6 1.6
Sure Maintenance – 0.5 0.5
13.1 (3.9) 9.2
In addition to the acquisitions discussed above, one of our  
former acquisitions – Allied Protection – had contingent deferred 
consideration as part of the transaction terms, amounting to 
£2.7m. Allied Protection met its profit targets in the year to  
30 September 2015, resulting in a full payment of the £2.7m 
contingent consideration in November 2015 (and is included  
in full within the table above).
Acquisition integration
We have a well worked integration process for acquisitions  
and focus on certain key items in the first 100 days:
 — Daily cash reporting and maintenance of a rolling  
three month cash forecast
 — Alignment of financial reporting with the Group’s  
reporting timetable
 — Future income visibility through monthly forecasting
 — Order book reporting, which underpins the predictability  
for our revenue 
 — Alignment of accounting policies
We typically conduct the due diligence in-house, with support 
from external advisers where appropriate and specific value can  
be added. This process means we get to know the acquired 
businesses well and cover the above integration matters during 
the process, such that acquired businesses are substantially 
aligned from day one.
The Group has a track record of purchasing successful, well-
managed businesses with comparable culture and financial 
discipline to our own. This helps ensure their integration is 
relatively smooth.
Going Concern statement
The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Council’s 
‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of  
UK Companies’ issued in October 2009. The Group’s business 
activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report as 
referred to on pages 1 to 42. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the financial review, as part of the Strategic Report, 
on pages 38 to 42. In addition, Note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements includes details of the Group’s approach to 
financial risk management, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.  
In assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
the Board reviews and approves the annual budget including  
12 month forecasts of cash flows and borrowing requirements. 
The Board reviews the Group’s sources of available funds and  
the level of headroom available against its committed borrowing 
facilities. The Group’s financial forecasts, taking into account 
possible sensitivities in trading performance, indicate that the 
Group will be able to operate within the level of its committed 
borrowing facilities. On 4 December 2015, the Group extended 
its Revolving Credit Facility, from £30m to £45m. The facility will 
mature in December 2018, albeit our funder has the option to 
extend this to December 2019. The Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
its operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting  
in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Viability statement
The Directors have considered section C.2.2 of the 2014 
Corporate Governance Code and, taking account of the Group’s 
current position, prospects and principal risks, confirm they have  
a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate 
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the three year period  
to 30 September 2018. A three year period is considered 
appropriate in light of the lifecycle of the Group’s order book, 
beyond which, management has less visibility. This assessment 
performed alongside the Group’s consideration of principal  
risks and annual three year financial planning process.
The Group performs a series of risk reviews during the year, 
managed through a Risk Committee and included in monthly 
operational reviews conducted with each division; the outcome  
is presented to the Audit Committee twice annually for review  
and challenge. This ensures that all matters of significance are 
considered and key risks brought to the attention of the Board. 
The Group’s three year financial plan (‘Plan’) is built on a  
bottom-up basis by business and segment and utilises the data 
provided in the Group’s order book, framework contracts and 
opportunity pipeline. The Plan is reviewed in detail with each 
division through a series of reviews and tested for a range of 
sensitivities, which quantify the principal risks facing the business, 
including contract losses, financial shortfalls and increased 
working capital demands. Management consider such risks 
insofar as they possess or can determine the information to  
do so, and there will always be an element of inherent uncertainty, 
particularly as regard matters outside their direct control, such as 
Government policy and client procurement policies. Sensitivities  
are also tested against our available banking facilities to ensure  
we had sufficient headroom and remain compliant with our  
banking covenants.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 42
Financial  
review  
continued As Executive Chairman it is my 
responsibility to ensure that 
Lakehouse is governed and  
managed with transparency  
and in the best interests  
of stakeholders.
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Lakehouse’s 
Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended  
30 September 2015, our first year as a listed company.  
As Executive Chairman it is my responsibility to ensure that 
Lakehouse is governed and managed with transparency  
and in the best interests of stakeholders.
Lakehouse listed its Ordinary Shares on the Main Market of  
the London Stock Exchange on 23 March 2015. The Listing  
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’), have therefore only applied to  
the Company since that date.
The Board of Lakehouse is committed to maintaining a sound 
framework for the control and management of the Group.  
The Directors and I believe good corporate governance is 
fundamental to effective management of the business and  
delivery of long term shareholder value. 
Inevitably, there has been a particular focus this year on 
establishing governance structures, internal control systems  
and policies and procedures that are appropriate for a company 
of our size and reputation. Sound governance structures were  
in place at Lakehouse prior to the IPO, but we have welcomed  
the opportunity that the IPO provided to strengthen these  
where necessary. I am delighted to be able to report close  
to full compliance with the Code for the period since we  
became a listed company. 
In the lead up to the IPO, the Company appointed three new 
Independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom bring a  
wealth of experience and knowledge to the Board, including  
the appointment of a Senior Independent Director. To assist the 
Board in its oversight functions, during the year we established 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. I am 
pleased to report the Board and its Committees are operating 
effectively. We intend to keep the Board and Committee 
performance under close review, and it is the Board’s intention  
to conduct a formal performance review exercise during the 
course of the new financial year.
Following the successful outcome of our IPO, we now have  
a new and wider shareholder base – a key priority for the Board  
is communicating effectively with the owners of the business. 
Details of our approach to communicating with shareholders  
is set out on page 51 and the Board is actively developing a 
programme of meetings and presentations to investors. I look 
forward to welcoming as many of our shareholders as are able  
to attend to our first Annual General Meeting as a listed company 
which is to be held at the offices of Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood 
Street, London EC2V 7WS on 5 February 2016.
Stuart Black
Executive Chairman
Stuart Black
Executive Chairman
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
43
Executive Chairman’s 
introduction to  
Corporate Governance Stuart Black
Executive Chairman
Appointment
Stuart joined Lakehouse in 
August 2008 as Executive 
Chairman to create and shape 
the Group’s growth strategy. 
Committee membership
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
Key strengths
Stuart has extensive experience 
in leadership roles in the support 
services sector. In a career 
spanning more than 25 years, 
he has held senior positions  
in a range of support services 
organisations. 
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Before joining Lakehouse in 2008 
Stuart was Chief Executive of 
Mears Group PLC. Prior to that, 
Stuart held the positions of 
Business Development Director 
at Mouchel PLC between  
2001 and 2004, Corporate 
Development Director at Citex 
Group between 1998 and 
2001 and was a Director at 
Bucknall Group between  
1986 and 1998. Stuart is  
also Non-Executive Chairman 
of TCL Group.
Sean Birrane
Chief Executive Officer
Appointment
Sean joined Lakehouse in 
December 1996. He was 
appointed Managing Director 
of Lakehouse in October 2008 
and Chief Executive Officer  
in October 2014.
Committee membership
None.
Key strengths
Sean has over 20 years’ 
experience in the support 
services and construction 
sectors. His career at Lakehouse 
has spanned commercial and 
operational roles across all 
aspects of the business and  
in a range of key sectors.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Sean joined Lakehouse in 1996 
as a Contracts Manager and 
has been instrumental in the 
growth of the business in that 
period. Sean was appointed 
Commercial Director in 2006 
and promoted to Managing 
Director in 2008. As Chief 
Executive Officer Sean has day 
to day operational responsibility 
for the business. Sean is a 
Member of the  
Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors.
Jeremy Simpson
Chief Financial Officer
Appointment
Jeremy joined Lakehouse in 
April 2014 as Chief Financial 
Officer.
Committee membership
None.
Key strengths
Jeremy has broad finance 
experience and has held  
senior financial positions  
with a number of public 
companies.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Prior to joining Lakehouse, 
Jeremy was Group Corporate 
Development Director and UK 
Finance Director at Shanks 
Group plc from 2011 to 2014. 
Previously, Jeremy was Director 
of Finance at Hunting PLC 
between 2010 and 2011,  
VP Finance EMEA at Avery 
Dennison between 2009 and 
2010 and at Smiths Group  
in a number of roles, including 
Corporate Development 
Manager and Director of 
Finance at Smiths Medical. 
Before joining Smiths Group in 
2001, Jeremy was an Associate 
Director at KPMG Corporate 
Finance. Jeremy is a qualified 
chartered accountant, having 
trained at Ernst & Young LLP. 
Jeremy is a trustee of the single 
parent charity, Gingerbread. 
Michael McMahon
Executive Director and 
Managing Director –  
Energy Services
Appointment
Michael joined the Group  
in April 2014 following its 
acquisition of Everwarm.
Committee membership
None.
Key strengths
Michael has significant 
experience in the energy 
services sector and was a 
founder director of Everwarm.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Michael has considerable 
experience in the energy 
services sector and was a 
founder director of Everwarm  
in 2011, which grew to become  
a profitable company with 
turnover in excess of £45m by 
the time of its acquisition by 
Lakehouse in 2014. Prior to 
founding Everwarm, Michael  
was Group Operations Director 
at Eaga plc, leaving shortly 
before it was acquired by 
Carillion plc to found Everwarm.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 44
Board of Directors Chris Geoghegan
Senior Independent Director
Appointment
Chris was appointed to  
the Board of Lakehouse in 
February 2015.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and member of  
the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees.
Key strengths
Chris has extensive business 
and management experience. 
In his career he has held a 
number of senior executive 
positions and has broad 
experience as a non-executive 
director.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Chris was the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Kier Group plc 
between 2007 and 2014.  
Prior to joining Kier, Chris was  
a Director of BAE Systems plc, 
serving as Chief Operating 
Officer with responsibility for  
all European joint ventures and 
UK defence electronics assets 
between 2002 and 2007.  
Chris is also a Non-Executive 
Director and Senior Independent 
Director of SIG plc. He was 
formerly Non-Executive 
Chairman of e2v technologies 
plc and Senior Independent 
Director of Volex plc. Chris is a 
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical 
Society and a past President of 
the Society of British Aerospace 
Companies.
Jill Ainscough
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Jill was appointed to the Board 
of Lakehouse in February 2015.
Committee membership
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of  
the Audit and Nomination 
Committees.
Key strengths
Jill has extensive operational 
and management experience  
across a range of industries 
and has held senior management 
and non-executive board 
positions in a number of 
regulatory and public bodies.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Jill was Chief Operating  
Officer of Ofcom, the 
independent regulator for the 
UK communications industries, 
from 2007 to 2014. Jill is also  
a Non-Executive Director of  
the BMJ. She was previously a 
Non-Executive Director of Sport 
England between 2007 and 
2013, where she chaired the 
Audit Committee. Prior to this 
she was UK Managing Director 
of Easynet Group. Jill is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators.
Johnathan Ford
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Johnathan was appointed  
to the Board of Lakehouse  
in February 2015.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Key strengths
Johnathan has extensive 
finance, commercial and 
corporate finance experience 
across a range of industries, 
including the support  
services sector.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Johnathan is Chief Financial 
Officer of Homeserve plc, 
having been appointed in 
2012. Prior to that appointment 
Johnathan was Group Finance 
Director of NWF Group plc. 
Prior to joining NWF in  
2009, he spent four years  
at HomeServe, firstly as Group 
Commercial Director and  
later as Finance Director  
of the Emergency Services 
Division. Before joining 
HomeServe he was Head of 
Corporate Finance at Kidde 
plc. Johnathan is a Fellow  
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England  
and Wales.
Simon Howell
Company Secretary
Appointment
Simon joined Lakehouse in  
June 2014 as Group Company 
Secretary.
Committee membership
n/a
Key strengths
Simon is an experienced 
company secretarial and legal 
professional, having held a 
number of such positions in 
quoted and private companies, 
including in the support 
services sector.
Experience, skills  
and qualifications
Simon was Company Secretary 
and Head of Legal at May 
Gurney Integrated Services 
plc between 2009 and 2013, 
leaving on its acquisition by 
Kier Group plc. Prior to joining 
May Gurney, Simon was 
Company Secretary of UBC 
Media Group plc between  
1997 and 2000. Simon is  
a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries  
and Administrators.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
45 Chairman 
Johnathan Ford
Members
Jill Ainscough
Chris Geoghegan
Key responsibilities
Reviewing and monitoring the integrity  
of the financial statements.
Ensuring an effective system of internal 
controls is maintained.
Monitoring accounting policies.
More information
Audit Committee Report, 
pages 53 to 55.
Chairman 
Chris Geoghegan 
Members 
Jill Ainscough
Stuart Black
Johnathan Ford
Key responsibilities
Provide a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure in respect of appointments to 
the Board.
Evaluate the structure, size and 
composition of the Board.
Review leadership of the Group and give 
consideration to succession planning.
More information
Nomination Committee Report,  
page 52.
Chair
Jill Ainscough
Members
Johnathan Ford
Chris Geoghegan 
Key responsibilities
Propose the over-arching principles, 
parameters and governance framework  
of the Group’s remuneration policy.
Determining the remuneration and benefits 
packages of the Executive Directors.
More information
Remuneration Committee Report, 
pages 56 to 68.
Key responsibilities
Assist the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
in the performance of their duties, including development and 
implementation of the strategic plan. Deal with all executive 
business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board 
or its Committees, including operational management of the 
business and the implementation of appropriate systems  
and controls.
Leadership, Strategy and Development, Controls, Risk, Values
The Board
Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Executive
Management
Team
Members
 — Executive Chairman
 — Chief Executive Officer
 — Chief Financial Officer
 — Managing Directors of Regeneration (South), Regeneration 
(East), Compliance, Energy Services and Construction
 — Company Secretary
 — Group Commercial Director
 — Business Improvement Director
 — Group Human Resources Director
The Governance Structure
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 46
Corporate Governance Report The role and structure of the Board
The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group 
and has overall authority for the management and conduct  
of the Group’s business, strategy and development. The Board  
is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound 
system of internal controls and risk management (including 
financial, operational and compliance controls) and for reviewing  
the overall effectiveness of systems in place as well as for the 
approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and/or 
management structure of the Group.
The Board operates in accordance with the Company’s articles  
of association and the Board’s written ‘Matters Reserved for  
the Board’ which was approved by the Board in March 2015.  
The Board has established a number of Committees, as  
set out on page 50. Each Committee has its own terms  
of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
The Matters Reserved for the Board are set out in written  
terms of reference and are available on the Company’s website  
at www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance/
board-and-committee-terms-reference.
A summary of the main matters reserved for decision  
by the Board is set out below:
Strategy and management
 — Overall management of the Group
 — Approval of the long term objectives and commercial strategy
 — Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets
 — Review of performance in light of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, business plans and budget
Structure and capital
 — Changes to the Group capital structure
 — Changes to the Group’s corporate structure
 — Changes to the Group’s management and control structure
Financial reporting and controls
 — Approval of financial statements
 — Approval of dividend policy
 — Approval of significant changes in accounting policies
 — Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal  
control and risk management
Contracts
 — Approval of major capital projects
 — Approval of contracts deemed material strategically  
or for reasons of size
Board membership
 — Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board
 — Appointment or removal of the Chairman, Chief  
Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director and 
Company Secretary
 — Membership and chairmanship of Board Committees
Remuneration
 — Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors, 
Company Secretary and other senior executives
 — Determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors
 — Introduction of new share incentive plans or major  
changes to existing plans
Delegation of authority
 — Approval of the written division of responsibilities  
between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer  
and other Executive Directors
Corporate governance
 — Review of the Group’s overall governance structure
 — Determining the independence of Directors
 — Considering the balance of interests between shareholders, 
employees, customers and the community
Policies
 — Approval of policies, including the Code of Conduct,  
share dealing code, health and safety policy, corporate 
responsibility policy, anti-bribery and corruption policy
Other areas
 — Making of political donations
 — Approval of the appointment of the Group’s principal 
professional advisers
 — Approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group
UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 –  
Compliance Statement
The Company adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 
on 23 March 2015 on admission of its shares to the UKLA’s 
Official List and Listing on the Main Market of the London  
Stock Exchange.
From the date of listing to 30 September 2015, the Company  
has applied all the main principles of the Code and has complied 
with the provisions of the Code save as noted below:
Code Provision A.3.1
Detail – requires that the Chairman should, on appointment, 
meet the independence criteria in provision B.1.1.
Explanation of non-compliance – Stuart Black was appointed  
as Executive Chairman of Lakehouse in 2008 and has played  
a pivotal role in the growth and development of the business 
since that date. Whilst the Code recommends that the 
Chairman should be independent, the Directors believe that  
the role the Chairman performs in creating and shaping the 
Group’s strategic vision and in driving growth means that the 
Group’s and shareholders’ interests are best served by him 
continuing in his position.
Code Provision B.6.1 and B.7.2
Detail – The Board did not undertake an annual evaluation  
of its own performance and that of its Committees and  
individual Directors.
Explanation of non-compliance – In the short period of time from 
admission to the Company’s year end of 30 September 2015 it was 
considered too early for the Board to undertake an evaluation of 
its own performance. During the coming year it is intended that 
an internal performance evaluation will be undertaken.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
47 The Board currently consists of the Executive Chairman,  
Chief Executive Officer, two Executive Directors and three 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets formally at least 10 times a year, with additional 
ad-hoc meetings called as and when circumstances require. 
There is an annual calendar of agenda items to ensure that all 
matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the  
appropriate point in the financial calendar.
In the period from 28 January 2015 to 30 September 2015 there 
were eight Board meetings and a number of ad-hoc meetings in 
connection with the acquisitions of Orchard Holdings (UK) and 
Sure Maintenance Group. There were also a number of meetings 
of Board Committees.
The table below shows the Directors’ attendance at Board and 
Committee meetings they were eligible to attend in the year:
Director
Board 
scheduled 
meetings
Board 
ad-hoc 
meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination 
Executive Directors
Stuart Black
1,3
8/8 2/2 – – 1/1
Sean Birrane
1,3
7/8 2/2 – – –
Jeremy Simpson
2,3
8/8 2/2 – – –
Michael 
McMahon
2,3
 7/8 1/2 – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Geoghegan
2
8/8 1/2 2/2 3/3 1/1
Jill Ainscough
2
8/8 2/2 2/2 3/3 1/1
Johnathan Ford
2
8/8 2/2 2/2 3/3 1/1
Note:
1. Appointed 28 January 2015.
2. Appointed 17 February 2015.
3.  Stuart Black joined Lakehouse in August 2008, Sean Birrane joined Lakehouse 
in December 1996, Jeremy Simpson joined Lakehouse in April 2014 and Michael 
McMahon joined Lakehouse in April 2014 following the acquisition of Everwarm.
At least once a year the Board undertakes a full strategic review 
of the business operations, usually in the course of a day.
All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and 
any Committees of which they are a member and are expected to 
devote sufficient time to the Company’s affairs to fulfil their duties 
as Directors.
Key Board roles and responsibilities
Whilst the Code recommends that the Chairman should be 
independent, the Directors believe that the significant contribution 
that Stuart Black has made to the Group in creating and shaping  
its strategic vision and in driving growth means that the Group’s 
and shareholders’ interests are best served by him continuing in  
his position. Stuart Black is required to commit three days a week  
to his duties and role as Executive Chairman of the Company. 
Stuart Black is also Non-Executive Chairman of TCL Group.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the  
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which is written  
and approved by the Board. The roles of the Chairman and  
Chief Executive are separately held and the role of each is  
clear and distinct. The Division of Responsibilities between  
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and the role of  
the Senior Independent Director are set out in written terms  
of reference and are available on the Company’s website at  
www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/corporate-governance/
board-and-committee-terms-reference.
Senior Independent Director
The Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a  
company with a premium listing on the Official List should  
appoint one of the Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior 
Independent Director to act as a sounding board for the  
Chairman and to support him in the delivery of his objectives.  
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible for leading 
the Non-Executive Directors in monitoring and evaluating the 
performance of the Executive Chairman, leading on corporate 
governance issues and being available to shareholders if they 
have any concerns which contact through the normal channels  
of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief  
Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such 
communication is inappropriate. Chris Geoghegan has  
been appointed as the Company’s Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 48
Corporate Governance Report 
continued A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive Officer are set out below:
Role Responsibilities
Executive Chairman — To manage the business of the Board and chair its meeting
 — Setting the Board agenda and ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely  
and clear information in advance of meetings
 — Ensuring that adequate time is available for the Board to consider all agenda items
 — Ensuring the Senior Independent Director is informed on all important matters
 — Develop the Group objectives and strategy
 — Ensure the Board understands the views of shareholders and other key stakeholders
 — Promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance
 — Ensuring constructive relationship with the Chief Executive Officer and other 
members of the executive management
 — Ensure constructive relationships and open communication between Non-Executive 
Directors and Executive Directors and between the Board and investors
 — Regularly consider the Board’s succession planning and composition
Senior Independent Director — Available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved  
through contact with the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of  
Chief Financial Officer
 — Lead the monitoring and evaluation annually of the performance of the  
Executive Chairman
 — Lead on governance issues, including the annual review of Board effectiveness  
and performance of individual Directors
 — Lead the Non-Executive Directors in relaying any issues, concerns or observations, 
including the views received from major shareholders
 — Provide support and guidance to the Executive Chairman and act as a  
sounding board
 — Lead the oversight of the Executive Chairman to ensure a clear division of 
responsibility between the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and  
the Senior Independent Director
Chief Executive Officer — Manage the day to day business of the Company and the development of the 
Company and its operations, taking account of the policies and direction of the  
Board and its Committees
 — Ensure the timely and effective implementation of the objectives, policies and 
strategies set by the Board
 — Report regularly to the Executive Chairman and the Board on progress of the  
strategy, the Company’s performance and operational matters
 — Bring to the Board’s attention all matters affecting the achievement of the strategy  
or the performance of the Company
 — Maintain standards of corporate governance and develop, communicate and  
embed effective business and financial controls and risk identification and 
management processes
 — Ensure the Group meets its corporate responsibility obligations
 — Set objectives for direct reports and assess and report regularly to the Board  
on the achievement of objectives
 — Develop senior talent development and succession planning
 — Create the appropriate organisational design and environment for the recruitment, 
engagement, retention and development of employees at all levels
 — In conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, develop an annual budget and  
the funding plan in line with the agreed strategy for approval by the Board
 — Represent the Company and further its best interests with the business community, 
investors and analysts, the media, customers, suppliers and the public
 — Ensure the Board is aware of employees’ views on relevant issues
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
49 Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is comprised of all the Non-Executive 
Directors. The Audit Committee Chairman is Johnathan Ford.  
The Audit Committee will meet not less than three times a year.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee  
are set out in written terms of reference and are available on  
the Company’s website at www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/
corporate-governance/board-and-committee-terms-
reference.
Details of the Audit Committee’s activities can be found in  
the Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 55.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of all the  
Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee  
is chaired by Jill Ainscough.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration 
Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are 
available on the Company’s website at www.lakehouse.co.uk/
investors/corporate-governance/board-and-committee-
terms-reference.
Details of the Remuneration Committee’s activities can be found 
in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 56 to 68.
The Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is comprised of all the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Executive Chairman. The Nomination Committee 
Chairman is Chris Geoghegan.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee 
are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the 
Company’s website at www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/
corporate-governance/board-and-committee-terms-
reference.
Details of the Nomination Committee’s activities can be found  
in the Nomination Committee Report on page 52.
Balance and independence
In accordance with the main principle B.1 of the Code, the  
Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance of  
skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable them to 
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. 
The size and composition of the Company’s Board is kept under 
review by the Nomination Committee and the Board to ensure  
an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained.
The Code recommends, in the case of a FTSE 350 company,  
that at least half the Board of Directors (excluding the Chairman) 
should comprise ‘independent’ Non-Executive Directors.  
Where a company is outside the FTSE 350, the Code 
recommends that the Board of Directors comprise at least two 
‘independent’ Non-Executive Directors. The Board comprises  
the Executive Chairman, who is not considered to be 
independent, three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive 
Directors. The three Non-Executive Directors comprise Chris 
Geoghegan, Senior Independent Director, Jill Ainscough and 
Johnathan Ford and are considered to be independent in 
character and judgement, and free of any business or other 
relationship which could materially influence their judgement.  
As at the date of this report, the Company (being outside the 
FTSE 350) complies with the recommendations of the Code 
concerning the number of independent Non-Executive Directors 
the Company should have.
Commitment
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors specify 
the amount of time they are expected to devote to the Company’s 
business. They are currently expected to commit to a minimum of 
two days per month which is calculated based on the time required 
to prepare for and attend Board and Committee meetings, and 
additional duties such as attendance at the AGM and meetings 
with shareholders. 
Length of appointment
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years 
which may be renewed, subject to the particular Director being 
re-elected by shareholders, for up to a normal maximum of three 
terms (nine years).
Conflicts of interest
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the policy for 
dealing with Directors’ conflicts of interest and are in line with the 
Companies Act 2006. The Board has a formal system in place for 
Directors to declare conflicts of interest and for such conflicts to 
be considered for authorisation.
Training and development
In preparation for Admission, all Directors received an induction 
briefing from the Company’s legal advisers on the duties and 
responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company.  
In addition, the new Non-Executive Directors have met key 
members of senior management in order to familiarise  
themselves with the Group.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 50
Corporate Governance Report 
continued Information and support
To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist the 
Directors in discharging their responsibilities, full and timely 
access is given to all relevant information to the Board. In the 
case of Board meetings this consists of a formal agenda and  
a comprehensive set of papers including regular business 
progress reports. An established procedure is in place to  
ensure that such information is provided to Directors in a timely 
manner in advance of meetings. Specific business-related 
presentations are given by senior management when appropriate. 
The Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman, the 
Chief Executive Officer and the chairs of the Board Committees 
to ensure that Board procedures, including setting agendas  
and the timely distribution of papers, are complied with and that  
there are good communication flows between the Board and  
its Committees, and between senior management and Non-
Executive Directors. The Company Secretary is also available to 
all Directors to provide advice and support, including facilitating 
induction programmes. All Directors are able to take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in the furtherance 
of their duties where considered necessary.
Re-election of Directors
The forthcoming AGM on 5 February 2016 will be the Company’s 
first. In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will be 
offering themselves for election at the AGM.
Whistleblowing
The Company has established procedures by which employees 
may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to the some danger, 
fraud, or other illegal or unethical conduct in the workplace.  
The Whistleblowing Policy applies to all employees of the  
Group, and also consultants, casual workers and agency workers. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group’s 
whistleblowing arrangements and the policy is reviewed 
periodically by the Board.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
Prior to the IPO the Company’s shareholders comprised of a 
number of management and staff, members of their family and 
former employees of the Group. As a result of the IPO, a larger 
shareholder base has developed. Investor relations activity and  
a review of the share register are regular items in the Board 
information pack.
As part of the IPO ‘roadshow’ in 2015 and in the period  
since the IPO, the Executive Directors have met a large  
number of investors and have engaged in active discussions  
with shareholders and investors, both on an individual basis  
and through roadshow events. The Company aims to maintain  
an active dialogue with key stakeholders, including institutional 
investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of the 
Group, including strategy and new developments. As indicated 
above, the Senior Independent Director is available to discuss  
any matter shareholders might wish to raise and attends  
meetings with investors as required.
The Company has an investor website which is publicly available 
and provides relevant information to both institutional investors 
and private shareholders, including performance updates and 
presentations made to analysts and investors.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s first Annual General Meeting will take place  
on 5 February 2016 at the offices of Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood 
Street, London EC2V 7WS. A separate notice convening the 
Annual General Meeting is being sent out with this Report and 
financial statements. Separate votes are held for each proposed 
resolution. At the Annual General Meeting, after the formal 
business has been concluded, the Chairman will welcome 
questions from shareholders. All Directors attend the meeting,  
at which they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders. 
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General 
Meeting on 5 February 2016 and an explanation of the items of 
special business can be found in the circular that contains the 
notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board.
Stuart Black 
Executive Chairman
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
51 Dear Shareholder,
The Nomination Committee was formed on the admission 
of Lakehouse plc shares to the London Stock Exchange on  
23 March 2015.
This is Lakehouse’s first year in public life and consequently  
there has been considerable focus on establishing a robust  
Board with the necessary mix of skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity to drive the strategic objectives of the business.  
The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading this 
process and making recommendations to the Board.
The Nomination Committee will also lead the process of Board 
Evaluation which will commence in 2016, our first full year as a 
public company.
Membership of the Nomination Committee and  
attendance during the year
The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors 
and the Executive Chairman.
Name of member
Date of appointment  
to the Committee
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Maximum 
number of 
meetings the 
member could 
have attended
% of 
possible
meetings 
attended
Chris Geoghegan
(Committee
Chairman)
1 7 February 2015 1 1 100
Johnathan Ford 1 7 February 2015 1 1 100
Jill Ainscough 1 7 February 2015 1 1 100
Stuart Black 1 7 February 2015 1 1 100
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee are 
available to view at www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/corporate-
governance/board-and-committee-terms-reference.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and at the AGM (for 
15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting).
Recruitment process
In preparation for the IPO and prior to the appointment of a Nomination 
Committee, the Board undertook a thorough process, with the 
assistance of its advisers, to identify appropriate Non-Executive 
Directors with the correct balance of skill, knowledge and experience 
to be relevant to the Group and to drive the Company forward and the 
process included candidates meeting ongoing Directors prior to the 
recommendation for appointment by the Board.
Diversity
The Board acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the 
boardroom and supports the management effort to build a diverse 
organisation. The Company believes in promoting diversity at  
all levels of the organisation. Women are estimated to make up 
11% of the UK construction workforce*. 24% of Lakehouse’s 
employees are women. As present 23% of our senior management 
team are female. The Board believes this will increase over time. 
When considering the optimum composition of the Board, it is 
believed all appointments should be made on merit, whilst ensuring 
an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Board.
Women as a percentage of Lakehouse’s senior management team
Women as a percentage of Lakehouse’s employees
Estimated percentage of women in the construction workforce*
Percentage of women in the construction industry and women
as a percentage of employees of Lakehouse
11%
24%
23%
* Source: The Smith Institute, Building the Future: Women in Construction.
Key issues reviewed by the Committee in the year
Below are some of the issues the Nomination Committee has 
considered in the period:
 — Review of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience  
and diversity on the Board
 — Establishing an induction programme for Non-Executive Directors
 — Planning for Board evaluation and review of succession planning
 — Review of the skills and the independence of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors and recommendation that each of them 
be elected at the Company’s first AGM on 5 February 2016
Action plan for 2015/16
The year to 30 September 2016 will be Lakehouse’s first full  
year as a public company. Below are some of the issues that  
the Nomination Committee plans to consider as part of an  
Action Plan for the year:
 — Undertake a Board performance evaluation and look to 
implement any recommended changes
 — Review development and induction programmes for  
Board members
 — Continue to review succession planning for the Board and  
key roles across the business and identification of a future 
talent pipeline in the business
Chris Geoghegan
Nomination Committee Chairman
9 December 2015
Chris Geoghegan
Nomination Committee Chairman
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 52
Corporate Governance Report
Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder,
The Audit Committee was formed prior to the admission  
of Lakehouse plc shares to the London Stock Exchange on  
23 March 2015. This report focuses on the matters considered  
by the Committee during the course of the year, in particular  
the work being undertaken to transition Lakehouse from being  
a private company to a plc, its first Annual Report as a listed 
company and the Committee’s priorities for the future.
Membership of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors of  
the Company. The Audit Committee is chaired by Johnathan Ford, 
who has recent and relevant financial experience. He is a chartered 
accountant with many years’ experience as a plc finance director 
and he is also Chief Financial Officer of Homeserve plc. 
The following table shows the number of meetings held during  
the period from 17 February 2015 to 30 September 2015 and  
the attendance record of individual members of the Committee.
Name of member
Date of appointment 
to the Committee
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Maximum 
number of 
meetings the 
member could 
have attended
% of 
possible
meetings 
attended
Johnathan Ford
(Committee
Chairman)
1 7 February 2015 2 2 100
Chris Geoghegan 1 7 February 2015 2 2 100
Jill Ainscough 1 7 February 2015 2 2 100
Following the year-end, the Committee has met to approve the 
Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statement. 
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet regularly throughout 
the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Group’s financial 
calendar. The Audit Committee invites the Executive Chairman, 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group 
Financial Controller and the Group Business Improvement Director, 
together with senior representatives of the external and internal 
auditors, to attend each meeting. The Company Secretary acts  
as secretary to the Committee. In addition, the Committee  
meets in private with the internal and external auditors without 
management present.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available  
to view at www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/corporate-
governance/board-and-committee-terms-reference.
The role of the Audit Committee
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the 
Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial 
reporting and the external and internal controls, including: 
 — reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Group’s annual 
and interim financial statements 
 — advising on the appointment of the external auditors and 
overseeing the Group’s relationship with its external auditors 
 — reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external  
audit process
 — reviewing the independence and objectivity of its auditors
 — reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work 
undertaken by the Group’s external auditors
 — making recommendations to the Board on accounting policies
 — reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and 
review function
 — approving and monitoring the internal audit plan
 — receiving reports from the Company’s internal and  
external auditors
 — making recommendations to the Board for a resolution  
to be put to the shareholders for the appointment of the 
external auditors, approval of their remuneration and  
terms of their engagement
 — reviewing the Group risk registers and advising the Board  
on the effectiveness of risk action plans
 — reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
whistleblowing and anti-bribery policy and procedures
Preparation for the IPO
As part of completing the Group’s Financial Position, Prospects 
and Procedures Report during the IPO process, the Directors, 
supported by Deloitte, undertook a detailed assessment of the 
following areas:
 — Board and Committee governance and the procedure for 
assessing the Group’s key risks
 — the management accounting process and the information 
provided to the Board
 — external financial reporting procedures, audit arrangements 
and reporting standards
 — internal controls environment
 — the Group’s information systems
 — forecasting and budgeting procedures and controls
Johnathan Ford
Audit Committee Chairman
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
53
Corporate Governance Report
Audit Committee Report Significant accounting matters
The Audit Committee assesses whether suitable accounting 
policies have been adopted and whether management has made 
appropriate estimates and judgements. In its assessment the 
Committee considered and challenged reports from management 
prior to both the interim and full year results explaining each area 
of judgement and management’s recommended approach. The 
Committee also received reports from the external auditor, which 
provide an overview of the audit work undertaken and sets out its 
views on the accounting treatment and judgements underpinning 
the financial statements.
The significant issues and accounting judgements considered 
by the Committee in the year were:
 — revenue recognition, specifically the timing of when to 
recognise revenue, given both the length of contracts and 
any future contractual obligations
 — accounting for contract work in progress, which is linked to the 
judgements taken around revenue recognition on contracts
 — the recoverability of customer retentions, which on certain 
contracts are held back by the customers until conclusion of 
the contract to cover any potential contractual disputes around 
the work completed
 — the calculation and disclosure of exceptional and other items, 
which include exceptional costs that are not expected to recur, 
accounting for the Group reconstruction and listing, the 
valuation and completeness of material liabilities, acquisition 
costs and contract losses on businesses from which the 
Company is exiting
 — the fair value accounting treatment of acquisitions and the 
consideration of goodwill impairment
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made are 
reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included 
in the accounts.
Other Financial Reporting Matters
Presentation of financial statements
The Audit Committee has reviewed the presentation of the 
financial statements, in particular the presentation of non-GAAP 
measures such as underlying EBITA, which is the Group’s primary 
measure of segment reporting. Under the Group’s Accounting 
Policies, underlying EBITA excludes items which would distort  
the measurement of the ongoing performance of each business 
segment. These excluded items are amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, contract losses on businesses being exited and 
exceptional items which are one-off in nature. The Committee  
has concluded that this presentation is appropriate.
External Auditors
A principal duty of the Audit Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment  
of the external auditor. Deloitte were first appointed as auditor  
to Lakehouse Holdings Limited in 2014 and subsequently  
to Lakehouse plc on its listing in March 2015. Deloitte are  
subject to annual reappointment by shareholders. 
The Audit Committee are very aware the effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor is central to ensuring  
the integrity of the Group’s published financial information.  
Prior to the commencement of the audit, the Audit Committee 
reviewed and approved the audit plan to ensure it was 
appropriately focused.
In order to ensure the external auditors’ independence, the 
Committee annually reviews the Company’s relationship with  
its auditors and assesses the level of controls and procedures  
in place to ensure the required level of independence and that  
the Company has an objective and professional relationship  
with Deloitte. The external auditors are required to rotate  
the audit partner responsible for Group audit every five years.  
The current audit partner was appointed for the year ended  
30 September 2014.
Non-audit services
The Audit Committee has adopted a formal policy governing  
the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services. 
This policy describes the circumstances in which the auditor  
may be engaged to undertake non-audit work for the Group.  
The Committee recognises that the auditors may be best placed 
to undertake certain non-audit work and engagements for 
non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to formal 
review by the Audit Committee based on the level of fees 
involved. In the year to 30 September 2015, non-audit fees 
totalled £1,125,000 and audit fees totalled £286,000. Non-
audit fees represented 80% of the total fees paid to the external 
audit of £1,411,000. Non-audit fees in part reflect the services 
and advice provided, including as Reporting Accountant, 
in connection with the IPO. Non-Audit Fees in the year to 
30 September 2015 are detailed in the following table:
Nature of service £’000
IPO-related corporate finance services £830
Taxation advisory services (corporate tax and indirect tax) £226
Audit-related assurance services (including interim  
profits verification) £29
Tax compliance and advice £40
Total non-audit services £1,125
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 54
Corporate Governance Report
Audit Committee Report
continued Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial 
reporting process and for reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls. The system of internal controls 
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and we can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with 
defined authority levels. The day to day running of the Group’s 
business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Group, 
who meet with both operational and finance management in each 
business area on a monthly basis. Key financial and operational 
measurements are reported on a monthly basis and are measured 
against both budget and re-forecasts.
The Group maintains a Group risk register and risk registers  
for each business within the Group which outline the key risks 
faced by the Group, including their impact and likelihood and 
relevant mitigation controls and actions. The Group and  
business risk registers are reviewed and updated by management 
on a quarterly basis, to ensure the key strategic, operational, 
financial and accounting risks are captured and prioritised and  
to identify the risk management activities for each risk. The risk 
registers for each business area are used to update the Group 
risk register and a summary of the key risks are presented to the 
Audit Committee semi-annually.
The risks and uncertainties which are judged currently to have  
the most significant impact on the Group’s long term performance 
and prospects are set out on pages 30 to 33.
Internal Audit
Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the 
effectiveness of internal controls by a programme of reviews  
of key business risks across the Group. RSM acts as Internal 
Auditor to the Company. Internal audit are in regular dialogue  
with the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller. 
Where control deficiencies are noted, the Internal Auditor will 
perform follow-up reviews. 
During the year the Audit Committee approved a three year 
internal audit strategy for 2015-2017 and meets regularly with 
RSM to review and progress the Group’s internal audit plan and 
will continue to monitor the effectiveness of internal audit plans  
in accordance with the Group’s ongoing requirements. 
Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing
Lakehouse has adopted an anti-bribery and corruption policy to 
comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its 
procedures to ensure continued compliance in its businesses.
The Group’s whistleblowing policy provides the framework to 
encourage all employees and its contractors and agency staff  
to raise concerns with designated individuals, including the 
Group Company Secretary and Group HR Director. The Audit 
Committee monitors this policy and reviews annually the number 
of matters reported and the outcome of any investigations.
The Audit Committee will periodically review the Group’s policies 
and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, its systems, 
controls and policies for preventing bribery and the corporate 
code of conduct.
I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM.
Johnathan Ford
Audit Committee Chairman
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
55 Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Lakehouse 
Remuneration Report for the year to 30 September 2015, having 
been appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with the 
Company’s Admission and Listing to the London Stock Exchange 
on 23 March 2015.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report on pages 58 to 63 
sets out the Company’s remuneration policy for Directors. This 
policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting. If approved by shareholders the policy 
as outlined in the Policy Report will come into effect on the  
date of the Annual General Meeting. It is expected to remain 
unchanged for a period of three years. During this time, if there  
is any change to the remuneration policy, the new policy will  
be submitted to shareholders for approval and we will seek to 
consult with leading shareholders and shareholder bodies on  
the changes prior to submission.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 64 to 68 sets  
out the payments and awards made to the Directors, it details  
the link between the Company’s performance and remuneration 
for the year and sets out how we intend to implement the policy 
for the year ending 30 September 2016. The Annual Report on 
Remuneration, together with this letter, is subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM.
Objectives of the remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure 
remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the growth  
of shareholder value and promotes the long term success of  
the Company. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors is designed to support the business needs of the 
Company, to ensure it has the ability to attract, motivate and  
retain senior leaders of a high calibre, remains competitive and 
provides appropriate incentive for performance. The Committee 
has agreed that Executive Directors’ remuneration should also:
 — align executives with the best interests of the Company’s 
shareholders and other relevant stakeholders through  
a significant weighting on performance-related pay
 — be consistent with regulatory and corporate governance 
requirements
 — be straightforward and transparent and support the delivery  
of strategic objectives
 — be consistent with the Group’s risk policies and systems  
to guard against inappropriate risk taking
Focus on performance
In anticipation of Admission, the Company commissioned a 
review of the remuneration policy. The objective of the review  
was to ensure that our remuneration structures for Directors  
and other senior employees would be fit for purpose as a listed 
company whilst also retaining certain key features, such as 
simplicity and transparency. As a result of the review, salaries 
were increased towards market levels and a Performance 
Share Plan was introduced. The following elements were set  
out in the Company’s Listing Prospectus; they support the 
Committee’s objectives as set out above and will form part  
of the Company’s policy:
 — Base salary – set at a level so as to attract and retain 
executives and at a level which reflects an individual’s 
experience, role, competency and performance
 — Pension – to provide a market competitive contribution 
towards post-retirement benefits
 — Annual bonus plan – annual incentives payable for  
the achievement of targets linked to our growth strategy.  
Half of any bonus is deferred in shares under the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan. The deferral of a proportion of bonus 
awards has been extended to the senior layer of management, 
alongside the Executive Directors
 — Performance Share Plan – Executive Directors will receive 
annual awards of share options under the Performance Share 
Plan, the first of which was awarded in March 2015. Vesting of 
these shares is subject to achieving challenging performance 
conditions measured over a three year period
 — Recovery and Withholding provisions – these are in place  
in the annual bonus plan (for the 2015/16 financial year) and 
Performance Share Plan to safeguard shareholders’ interests 
in the event of an overpayment
 — Shareholding guidelines – a requirement for Executive 
Directors to build up and retain a significant holding of 
Lakehouse shares has been introduced
Jill Ainscough
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 56
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual statement by the Chair of the  
Remuneration Committee Details of these key elements of remuneration policy are 
contained in the Policy Report.
The context for decisions on remuneration
The rigorous process for an Initial Public Offering has prepared 
the Company well for the demands of being a listed company.  
To reward his commitment and contribution in the period up  
to Admission, Jeremy Simpson was awarded a cash bonus of 
£220,000. This one-off bonus was in recognition of Jeremy’s 
significant work undertaken before coming to market and does 
not form part of the Company’s remuneration policy as a listed 
company, which if approved, will take effect from the date of  
the AGM. In addition, prior to IPO, Sean Birrane and Jeremy 
Simpson received performance-related cash bonuses of 
£25,000 each.
Lakehouse remains well placed to continue to grow the business 
based on a mixture of organic growth and strategic acquisition.  
It is against this background that the Remuneration Committee 
approved a Performance Share Plan award in 2014/15 under 
existing remuneration arrangements to the Executive Directors. 
These awards vest after three years subject to continued 
employment and achievement against challenging performance 
criteria, with two-thirds based on EPS growth targets and 
one-third on relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance 
against a group of other listed peers.
Employee share ownership
Lakehouse is committed to encouraging share ownership 
amongst employees to enable them to share in the success of  
the business. To this end, at the time of the Listing all employees 
were awarded an allocation of shares in the Company under the 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP). During the year the Company has  
also approved the introduction of an all employee Sharesave 
(SAYE) plan.
Application of policy in 2015/16
Reflecting the increases in salaries applied at the time of 
Admission, the Committee decided that there would be no 
increases in the Base Salary awarded to Executive Directors  
for the year from 1 October 2015.
All Executive Directors will participate in the Company’s 
discretionary bonus scheme in 2015/16. The maximum potential 
bonus which may be awarded to an Executive Director is capped 
at 100% of his Base Salary and any bonus award is discretionary 
and conditional upon the achievement of profit and individual 
performance measures set by the Remuneration Committee  
at the start of the year. 
In 2015/16, it is expected that Executive Directors will receive  
a second award under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) at a 
value of 100% of salary. These PSP awards will vest after three 
years depending performance against EPS growth targets and 
relative TSR performance.
Full details of how the Policy will be applied in 2015/16 are  
set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Shareholder engagement
We are committed to active engagement with our shareholders. 
As part of the preparation for our IPO we ensured that major 
shareholders were kept informed in respect of remuneration  
and that remuneration was clearly disclosed to shareholders  
in the IPO prospectus. We have also recently sought feedback 
from our major shareholders in advance of the publication of  
the Remuneration Policy Report, to explain our approach to 
addressing the remuneration of Executive Directors and the  
AGM resolution.
I hope you find the information in this report helpful and I look 
forward to your support at the forthcoming AGM. I am always 
pleased to hear from the Company’s shareholders and you can 
contact me directly or via the Company Secretary, Simon Howell, 
if you have any questions on this report or more generally in 
relation to the Company’s remuneration.
Jill Ainscough
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
57 This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy of the Company. The Remuneration Policy 
will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 Annual General Meeting and will take immediate effect once approved.  
It is currently proposed that the Policy will apply for a three year period following approval.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the growth of shareholder 
value and promotes the long term success of the Company. The Directors’ Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed  
to support the business needs of the Company, to ensure it has the ability to attract, motivate and retain senior leaders of a high 
calibre, remains competitive and provides appropriate incentive for performance. The Committee has agreed that Executive Directors’ 
remuneration should also:
 — align executives with the best interests of the Company’s shareholders and other relevant stakeholders through a significant 
weighting on performance-related pay
 — be consistent with regulatory and corporate governance requirements
 — be straightforward and transparent and support the delivery of strategic objectives
 — be consistent with the Group’s risk policies and systems to guard against inappropriate risk taking
The table below and accompanying notes summarises the key elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’). 
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base Salary
A competitive base 
salary is essential  
to recruit and retain 
Executives. 
Reflects an individual’s 
experience, role, 
competency and 
performance.
Salaries are paid monthly. They are normally 
reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months 
commencing 1 October. 
Decisions on changes to salaries are 
influenced by a variety of factors including:
 — the commercial need to do so
 — the role, experience, responsibility and 
performance (of both the individual  
and Company)
 — increases applied to the broader  
workforce
 — periodic benchmarking of similar roles  
in broadly similar UK listed companies  
and companies of a similar size
The general policy is to pay around 
mid-market levels with annual increases 
typically in line with the wider workforce. 
There is no obligation on the Company to 
award an annual salary increase and any 
base salary increases awarded will be  
at the Company’s discretion.
Increases beyond those granted to the 
workforce may be awarded in certain 
circumstances, such as where there is a 
change in the individual’s responsibility or 
where the salary set at initial appointment 
was below the level expected once the 
individual gains further experience. An 
above market positioning may be appropriate 
in exceptional circumstances to reflect the 
criticality of the role and experience and 
performance of the individual.
Proposed salaries for FY15/16 are outlined 
on page 67.
No formal metrics apply although individual and 
Company performance is taken into account when 
determining any annual increase.
Benefits
The Company offers  
competitive and 
cost-effective benefits  
to help recruit and  
retain Executives. 
Certain benefits such as 
medical cover are provided  
to minimise disruption to  
the day to day operation  
of the business.
Benefits include but are not limited to  
the provision of company car (or cash 
allowance in lieu), fuel, life assurance  
and family private medical cover.
Relocation or other related expenses may  
be offered, as required.
Executive Directors may participate in the 
all-employee HMRC-approved Sharesave 
(SAYE scheme), Share Incentive Plan  
(SIP) and Company Share Option Scheme  
(CSOP) plans.
The cost of providing market competitive 
benefits may vary from year to year 
depending on the cost to the Company 
from third-party providers.
Participation in HMRC-approved plans  
will be subject to the individual limits as 
prescribed by HMRC at the time of grant.
No performance metrics apply.
Retirement Benefits
To provide a market-
competitive, cost-effective 
contribution towards 
post-retirement benefits.
The Company will provide a contribution  
to a personal or company-operated defined 
contribution pension plan or a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension.
The Company’s contribution to defined 
contribution plans or salary supplement  
in lieu of pension may be made up to the 
value of 15% of salary.
No performance metrics apply.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 58
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report  Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Annual Bonus
To motivate executives  
and incentivise the 
achievement of annual 
financial and/or  
strategic targets. 
Bonus deferral in  
shares provides a  
retention element  
and extra alignment  
with shareholders.
Bonus payments are determined by the 
Committee after the year end, based  
on performance against the targets set. 
Targets are reviewed annually at the  
start of the financial year.
Half of any bonus is payable in cash and the 
other half is deferred into shares for three  
years under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards are not 
subject to any further performance criteria.
Bonus payments in respect of the financial 
year 2015/16 onwards and Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan awards granted from 2015/16 
can be clawed back or reduced if the 
Committee determines within three years  
of the payment or grant date that there has 
been a material misstatement of financial 
results, a miscalculation in the grant or 
assessment of performance conditions  
or where serious misconduct has been 
discovered. 
An additional payment (in the form of cash  
or shares) may be made in respect of shares 
that vest to reflect the value of dividends 
that would have been paid on those shares 
during the vesting period.
The maximum opportunity under the annual 
bonus scheme is 100% of salary.
The bonus may be based on the achievement of an 
appropriate mix of challenging financial, strategic or 
individual targets. 
Financial measures which will typically account  
for the majority of the bonus opportunity may include 
measures such as (Group or business unit) profit or cash 
flow taking into account the strategic objectives of the 
business from time to time. 
For financial metrics, a range of targets is set by the 
Committee, taking into account factors such as the 
business outlook for the year. 
The level of payment for achieving threshold 
performance may vary depending on the financial 
measure chosen, with pay-outs from zero per cent.  
Full vesting requires outperformance of objectives.
Individual measures may include Health & Safety 
performance, Order Book and strategic initiatives  
or any other appropriate objective aligned with the  
key short term priorities of the Group. Where possible  
a performance range will be set although this will  
depend on the measure chosen.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may  
be varied by the Committee year on year based on the 
Company’s strategic goals
1
. The specific performance 
metrics to be used are commercially sensitive and 
disclosure of actual performance metrics will be made 
retrospectively (year on year) when bonuses are awarded.
Performance Share Plan
The PSP incentivises  
the Executive Directors  
and selected employees  
to achieve demanding 
financial and superior  
long term shareholder 
returns.
Retains key Executives  
over the medium term.
Aligns the interests  
of the Executives and 
shareholders through  
the requirement to  
build up a substantial 
shareholding.
Awards are granted annually in the form  
of either nominal or nil-cost options under  
the Performance Share Plan and vest  
after three years. 
Stretching performance conditions 
measured over a period of three years 
determine the extent to which awards vest. 
Quantum is reviewed annually (subject to  
the PSP individual limit) taking into account 
matters such as market practice, overall 
remuneration, the performance of the 
Company and the Executive being made  
the award. 
Vested awards may be clawed back and 
subsisting awards may be reduced if within 
three years of vesting there has been a  
material misstatement of financial results,  
a miscalculation in the grant or assessment 
of performance conditions or where serious 
misconduct has been discovered.
Dividends payable during the vesting period 
may accrue on vested shares.
The maximum annual award under the  
PSP that may be granted to an individual  
in any financial year is 150% of salary.
The exercise of awards is conditional upon the 
achievement of one or more challenging performance 
targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the time 
of grant and measured over a three year period. 
Measures may include:
 — The Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) 
performance over a three year performance period 
compared to a comparator group determined at 
grant. For a ranking below median, none of this part 
of the award will vest; for a median ranking, 25% 
vests; and 100% vesting for upper quartile 
performance or better. For performance between 
median and upper quartile, the award vests on a 
straight line basis. For this part of the award, no 
vesting can occur unless the Committee considers 
that the underlying financial performance of the 
Company has been satisfactory
 — A sliding scale of earnings per share (EPS) growth 
targets. None of this part of the award shall vest if 
growth is below a threshold level of growth; 25% 
vests for achieving the threshold level; and full 
vesting for achieving the maximum performance 
target or better. For performance between these 
points, vesting is on a straight line basis
In determining the target range for any financial 
measures that may apply, the Committee ensures  
they are challenging by taking into account current  
and anticipated trading conditions, the long term 
business plan and external expectations while 
remaining motivational for management.
TSR and EPS or financial metric performance periods 
will usually commence from the start of the financial 
year in which the award is made.
The Committee retains the flexibility to vary the mix of 
metrics for each year’s award in light of the business 
priorities at the time. The Committee may introduce other 
measures either to support or in place of TSR and EPS 
which support the long term business strategy
2
.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
59 Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
To attract and retain 
high-quality and 
experienced Non-
Executive Directors.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors  
are determined by a Sub-Committee of the 
Board comprising the Executive Chairman  
and other Executive Directors. Fees are 
reviewed periodically.
Non-Executive Directors receive a fee  
for carrying out their duties, together with 
additional fees for those who chair the  
primary Board Committees and the Senior 
Independent Director.
The level of fees of the Non-Executive 
Directors reflects the time commitment and 
responsibility of their respective roles. Their 
fees are reviewed from time to time against 
broadly similar UK listed companies and 
companies of a similar size. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate 
in any incentive arrangements and they  
do not receive a pension contribution. 
Non-Executives do not receive any  
benefits but they may be reimbursed for  
the grossed-up cost of travel, overnight 
accommodation or other reasonable 
expenses incurred in carrying out their 
duties which are deemed taxable by HMRC.
Details of current fees are set out in  
the Annual Report on Remuneration on 
page 67. The Company’s Articles of 
Association set an aggregate fee level  
of £500,000 per annum.
No performance metrics apply.
Share ownership policy
To align interests of 
management and 
shareholders and  
promote a long term 
approach to performance 
and risk management.
Executive Directors are expected to build  
up a shareholding in the Company equal  
to at least 200% of salary.
Only shares owned outright by Executive 
Directors (or connected persons) are  
included in the guideline.
The Committee will review progress 
annually with an expectation that Executive 
Directors will make progress towards the 
achievement of the shareholding policy 
guideline each year. At its discretion and 
where appropriate the Committee may 
permit the sale of shares by an Executive 
Director with a shareholding in the 
Company of less than 200% of salary.
Not applicable. No performance metrics apply.
Notes to the Policy Table:
1.  Annual bonus performance metrics 
The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually and reflect the key financial, strategic and operational priorities of the Group. Stretching financial targets are set by 
the Committee by taking account of the Company’s business plan and external expectations for the next 12 months.
2.  Performance Share Plan metrics 
Relative TSR provides a measure of the long term success of the Company relative to appropriate peer comparators. EPS growth is a measure of the overall profitability 
of the business for investors over the long term and therefore helps align the interests of management with shareholders. If the Committee decides to choose alternative 
measures, they will be selected to ensure that they incentivise Executive Directors to deliver long term sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 60
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 
continued Incentive plan discretions
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the HMRC 
approved share schemes according to their respective rules 
(which were summarised for shareholders in the Company’s  
IPO Prospectus) and the policy set out above. The Committee, 
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number 
of areas relating to the operation and administration of these 
plans. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
 — Who participates in the plan
 — The timing of grant and/or payment
 — The size of an award and/or a payment
 — The choice of performance measures and targets for each 
incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and 
the rules of each plan (including, for example, the treatment  
of delisted companies for the purpose of the TSR comparator 
group and any adjustments required to EPS to make it a fairer 
measure of performance)
 — The ability to vary any performance conditions if circumstances 
occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to determine  
that the original conditions have ceased to be appropriate 
provided that any change is fair and reasonable and in the 
Committee’s opinion, not materially less difficult to satisfy  
than the original condition
 — Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in  
the event of a change of control or reconstruction
 — Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified 
categories) for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of 
each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules
Fixed pay
Below
Target
61%
26%
13%
100% 38%
31%
31%
61% 100% 38% 61% 100% 38% 61% 100% 38%
26%
13%
31%
31%
26%
13%
31%
31%
26%
13%
31%
31%
£273
£445
£733
£365
£590
£965
£313
£508
£833
£238
£388
£638
Target
Stuart Black Sean Birrane Jeremy Simpson Michael McMahon
Maximum
Target
Below
Target
Target Maximum
Target
Below
Target
Target Maximum
Target
Below
Target
Target Maximum
Target
Annual bonus PSP
The charts below provide an indication of the level of remuneration that would be receivable 
by our Executive Directors under three performance scenarios
£’000
Notes:
1. Below threshold
 – Fixed pay only – calculated as 2016 base salaries plus 15% pension contribution plus the actual 2014/15 value of benefits (annualised for a full year)
2. Target
 – Fixed pay as above
 – Bonus based on half of the 100% of salary bonus opportunity (ie 50% of salary)
 – PSP based on threshold vesting (ie 25% of opportunity)
3. Maximum
 – Fixed pay as above
 – Bonus based maximum 100% of salary opportunity 
 – PSP based on maximum vesting (ie 100% of salary)
Any share price increase and the value of participation in all employee share schemes have not been factored into the calculations. 
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, any remuneration or for loss of office 
payments that are not in line with this policy may be made if the 
terms were agreed before the approval of this policy. In addition, 
authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into at a time when the relevant employee was not a 
Director of the Company.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The Lakehouse remuneration arrangements have been designed 
to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on  
the delivery of short term and long term goals that are aligned 
with the Company’s key strategic objectives and the creation  
of sustainable returns to shareholders.
The Committee has considered the potential amount payable  
to Executive Directors in different performance scenarios and  
is comfortable that the amounts payable are appropriate in  
the context of the performance delivered and the value added  
for shareholders. 
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
61 Approach to Recruitment Remuneration
The section below sets out the Remuneration Committee’s 
approach to the recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors.
In setting the remuneration for a new Executive Director, the 
Remuneration Committee will take into account the calibre of  
the individual, market data and the remuneration arrangements  
for current Directors. The remuneration package for a new 
Director will be set in accordance with the Company’s approved 
policy as set out in the Remuneration Policy Table on pages  
58 to 60.
Fixed pay
Salary levels for Executive Directors will be set in accordance 
with the Company’s policy, taking into account the experience 
and calibre of the individual and his or her existing remuneration 
package. Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially 
(for either an internal or external recruit), a series of increases  
to the desired salary positioning may be made over subsequent 
years subject to individual performance and development in the 
role. Benefits will generally be provided in line with those offered 
to other executive directors, with relocation or other expenses 
provided for if necessary.
Variable pay
The structure of variable pay – the annual bonus and PSP 
participation – will be in accordance with the Company’s 
approved policy detailed above. The maximum opportunities  
are 100% of salary bonus and performance shares with a face 
value of 150% of salary. Different performance measures may  
be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the 
responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial  
year that he or she joined the Board. 
Buy-out awards
In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy-out 
incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited  
on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided  
for taking into account the form (cash or shares), timing  
and expected value (ie likelihood of meeting any existing 
performance criteria) of the remuneration being forfeited.  
The principle will be that any replacement awards will be of 
broadly comparable value to what the executive has left behind. 
Replacement share awards, if used, may be granted using  
the Company’s existing share plans to the extent possible, 
although awards may also be granted outside of these  
schemes if necessary and as permitted under the LSE  
Listing Rules (9.4.2). 
In the case of an internal hire/promotion, any legacy variable  
pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed  
to pay out according to its terms of grant. Similarly, if an  
Executive Director is appointed following a merger or  
acquisition of another company, any legacy pay arrangements  
may be honoured.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors will be set in line with the 
approved policy.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The table below summarises the service contracts of the Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Name
Date of contract/
letter of appointment
Notice period
by Company
Notice period
by Director
Executive Director
Stuart Black 28 January 2015 12 months 6 months
Sean Birrane 28 January 2015 12 months 6 months
Michael McMahon 17 February 2015 12 months 6 months
Jeremy Simpson 17 February 2015 12 months 6 months
Non-Executive Director
Chris Geoghegan 17 February 2015 1 month 1 month
Jill Ainscough 17 February 2015 1 month 1 month
Johnathan Ford 17 February 2015 1 month 1 month
The section below sets out the Remuneration Committee’s 
approach to service contracts and policy on termination payments.
Executive Directors
Under the Executive Directors’ service contracts and in line with 
the policy for new appointments, 12 months’ notice of termination  
of employment is required by the Company and six months by the 
Executive Director.
The Company may terminate an Executive Directors’ employment by 
paying an amount in lieu of notice (PILON) equal to base salary, 
employer pension contributions and the cost of benefits for the 
unexpired period of notice. Reasonable costs of legal expenses 
incurred by the Director may be reimbursed by the Company by 
making direct payment to the professional adviser.
The payment at the Company’s discretion may be paid in two 
equal instalments, the first within 28 days of written notice and the 
second after six months. If the payment is paid in two tranches, the 
second payment may at the discretion of the Company be reduced 
by the amount the executive has earned or is expected to receive in 
the 12 months following termination. In the case of the Executive 
Chairman who works three days per week, only replacement 
earnings from his employment with the Company are set off against 
PILON instalments and not any other income that he may have 
received in any event.
Service agreements will be terminable with immediate effect 
without notice in certain circumstances, including where the 
Executive Director commits any material or continued breach  
of the service agreement or in the case of gross misconduct.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 62
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 
continued Treatment of incentives
There is no entitlement to cash bonus paid (or associated 
deferred shares) following notice of termination by either the 
employee or Company on cessation of employment and ‘bad 
leavers’ will not receive any bonus in such circumstances. 
However, where the individual is considered a ‘good leaver’  
(in the event of death, injury, ill health, or disability, or retirement 
with the agreement of his employer, or sale of employing  
company or business out of the Group or for any other reason  
at the discretion of the Committee), the Company’s normal  
policy is that a performance-related bonus will be payable  
at the normal time on the proportion of the bonus year for  
which the individual was employed. Any bonus earned in the  
year of cessation shall be paid in cash.
Any outstanding share awards held by a departing Director  
will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.  
The default treatment under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan  
and Performance Share Plan is that any outstanding awards  
will lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed ‘good leaver’ circumstances  
(as set out earlier) and in any other circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee:
 — Deferred share bonus plan awards will become exercisable  
at cessation or such later date (up to the original vesting  
date). Awards will be pro-rated for time unless, at the 
Committee’s discretion, it decides to pro rate to a lesser  
extent or not at all
 — PSP awards will continue to be held post cessation and  
will vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee 
determines that they may vest earlier, from the date of 
cessation. In either case, the number of awards capable  
of being exercised will be determined by reference to the 
satisfaction of performance criteria and reduced pro rata  
for time (unless the Committee determines that pro-rating 
should apply to a lesser extent or not at all)
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment  
with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject  
to annual re-appointment at the AGM. Appointments are 
terminable by either party on one month’s written notice.  
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors  
provide that no compensation is payable on termination,  
other than accrued fees and expenses.
All Executive Directors’ service agreements and Non-Executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection  
at the Company’s registered office at 1 King George Close, 
Romford, Essex RM7 7LS.
Remuneration in the wider Group
Throughout the Group, base salary and benefit levels are set 
taking into account prevailing market conditions. Differences 
between Executive Director Pay policy and other employee  
terms reflect the seniority of the individuals, and the nature  
of responsibilities. The key difference in policy is that for  
Executive Directors a greater proportion of total remuneration  
is based on performance-related incentives. The Committee  
has oversight of incentive plans operated throughout the Group. 
The long term incentive arrangements for the senior management 
immediately below Board level align with the long term interests  
of the business and where appropriate objectives may be  
tailored to individual business areas.
When setting the policy for the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors, the Committee has regard to the pay and employment 
conditions of employees within the Group. However, the Committee 
does not use comparison metrics or consult directly with employees 
when formulating the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. 
The Committee reviews salary increases and pay conditions within 
the business as a whole, to provide context for decisions in respect 
of Executive Directors.
Shareholder engagement
We are committed to active engagement with our shareholders. 
As part of the preparation for our IPO we ensured that major 
shareholders were kept informed in respect of remuneration  
and that remuneration was disclosed to shareholders in the  
IPO prospectus. We have also recently sought feedback from  
our major shareholders in advance of the publication of the 
Remuneration Policy Report, to explain our approach to 
addressing the remuneration of Executive Directors and the  
AGM resolution. The Committee will consult with leading 
shareholders prior to any material change in the way we  
operate our policy or when a new policy is being proposed.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
63 This section of the Remuneration Report sets out details of the remuneration the Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
received during the financial year ended 30 September 2015 and details of how we intend to implement the Remuneration  
Policy in the forthcoming year. The Annual Report on Remuneration will, together with the annual statement of the Chair of  
the Remuneration Committee on pages 56 to 57, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 5 February 2016. Where required, data has been audited by Deloitte LLP and this is indicated 
where appropriate.
Single total figures of remuneration (audited)
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the total remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2015 and the prior year.
Salary Benefits
1
Pensions
2
Annual Bonus
3
Long Term 
Incentive
4
Total
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Stuart Black
5
250 198 8 nil 17 nil nil nil n/a n/a 275 198
Sean Birrane 246 175 20 14 25 9 25 nil n/a n/a 315 198
Michael McMahon 177 64 8 1 29 6 nil nil n/a n/a 214 71
Jeremy Simpson 218 80 14 6 24 4 245 nil n/a n/a 501 89
Notes:
1.  Benefits: The benefits consist of a car-related benefit, private health insurance for Director and family and life assurance. Car allowance (or cash alternative) is provided. 
Life cover is 4x annual salary payable should death in service occur. Private medical insurance is provided to the Executive and his partner and all dependent children up  
to age 25.
2.  Retirement Benefit: The amount set out in the table represents the Company contribution to the Director’s retirement planning. The Company makes contributions 
equal to 15% of the Executive’s annual basic salary.
3.  B o n us : Further details are set out below. Sean Birrane and Jeremy Simpson each received a bonus award of £25,000 in December 2014 and in recognition of his 
commitment and significant contribution in the work undertaken prior to the IPO, Jeremy Simpson was awarded a bonus of £220,000.
4.  Long Term Incentives: There were no long term incentive awards with performance periods ending in the respective years.
5.  Stuart Black is engaged by the Company to act as Executive Chairman for three days a week.
Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the total fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Fees
2015 
£’000
Total
2015
£’000
Fees
2014
£’000
Total
2014
£’000
Chris Geoghegan
1
25 25 – –
Jill Ainscough
1
25 25 – –
Johnathan Ford
1
25 25 – –
Note: 
1.  The Non-Executive Directors’ appointments commenced on 17 February 2015.
 
Annual bonus in respect of 2014/15
An annual bonus plan operated for the financial year to 30 September 2015 and was based on a sliding scale of PBT targets. Despite 
a 114% increase in underlying Profit before Taxation over the prior year, underlying Profit before Taxation of £21,605,000 was below 
the threshold required to trigger payment. Therefore no bonuses became payable in respect of the 2014/15 financial year.
In December 2014, before the Company listed, Sean Birrane and Jeremy Simpson were each awarded a performance-related bonus  
of £25,000 and in recognition of his commitment and significant contribution prior to the Company’s IPO Jeremy Simpson was 
awarded a bonus of £220,000. These were one-off bonus payments which were agreed prior to the IPO and do not form part of 
the Company’s ongoing remuneration policy.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 64
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration Long Term Incentive vesting
There were no long term incentive awards capable of vesting in 2014/15. The first PSP award was granted on 23 March 2015 and  
will vest three years later subject to performance conditions and continued employment. Further details are provided below.
 
Long Term Incentive awards granted in 2014/15 (audited)
The performance measures and targets for the PSP awards granted in the year ended 30 September 2015 are as follows:
Basis of
award granted
Shares
awarded
Face value
of award
1
Percentage
vesting for
threshold
performance Vesting period
Stuart Black 100% of salary 258,426 £229,999 25% EPS performance measured over the three years ended 
30 September 2017. TSR performance measured over 
three years commencing on 23 March 2015. Awards will 
vest to participants on 23 March 2018.
Sean Birrane 100% of salary 337,078 £299,999 25%
Michael McMahon 100% of salary 224,719 £200,000 25%
Jeremy Simpson 100% of salary 292,134 £259,999 25%
Notes:
1.  Face value based on a share price of 89p being the share price on the date of grant, 23 March 2015.
2.  With the exception of the PSP award granted to Michael McMahon, no consideration is payable in order to exercise the awards set out above. In relation to the award 
granted to Michael McMahon, an exercise price of 10p per share (being the nominal value of an ordinary share in the capital of the Company) is payable in order to 
exercise such award. In normal circumstances each award will not be capable of being exercised prior to the vesting date. 
The PSP award was granted on 23 March 2015 in the form of nil cost options to Stuart Black, Sean Birrane and Jeremy Simpson and 
in the form of options with an exercise price of 10p to Michael McMahon and is subject to two performance conditions, relative Total 
Shareholder Return and EPS growth.
Description Weighting Target
Earnings per Share 66.7% Earnings per Share (‘EPS’)
1
Total Shareholder Return 33.3% Relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’)
2
Notes:
1.  The EPS measure, which accounts for 66.7% of the award, is based on EPS compound annual growth as measured by comparing EPS relative to growth in the Retail 
Price Index over a three year performance period to 30 September 2017. None of the award will vest if compound annual growth in EPS is less than the Retail Prices 
Index in the period plus 4%, 25% will vest for RPI+4% growth and 100% will vest for RPI+12% p.a. growth or better.
2.  The TSR Target will measure the Company’s total shareholder return performance over a three year Performance Period commencing on the date of Admission  
(‘TSR Performance Period’) relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Business Support Services and of the FTSE All-Share Heavy Construction subsectors 
(excluding any company which is in the FTSE 100 Index) (the ‘Comparator Group’). For a ranking below median, none of the element of the award will vest. For a 
median ranking 25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above upper quartile.
In addition, SAYE and SIP awards were granted to certain Executive Directors and these are disclosed in the summary of share 
awards section below.
Other directorships
The Executive Chairman, Stuart Black, is also a director of Sahsof Limited, TCL Group Limited and Playforce Limited.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
65 A summary of PSP, SAYE and SIP share awards granted (audited)
The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors’ outstanding option awards under the PSP, SAYE and SIP plans:
Name of Director Scheme
Number
of options at  
1 October
2014
Granted
during the
period
Lapsed
during the
period
Exercised
during the
period
Number
of options at  
30 September 
2015
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date
Stuart Black PSP
1
– 258,426 – – 258,426 23 March 2018 23 March 2025
SIP
3
– 199 – – 199
Total – 258,625 – – 258,625
Sean Birrane PSP
1
– 337,078 – – 337,078 23 March 2018 23 March 2025
SAYE
2
– 13,212 – – 13,212 1 August 2018
SIP
3
– 199 – – 199
Total – 350,489 – – 350,489
Michael McMahon PSP
1
– 224,719 – – 224,719 23 March 2018 23 March 2025
SIP
3
– 199 – – 199
Total – 224,918 – – 224,918
Jeremy Simpson PSP
1
– 292,134 – – 292,134 23 March 2018 23 March 2025
SAYE
2
– 13,212 – – 13,212 1 August 2018
SIP
3
– 199 – – 199
Total – 305,545 – – 305,545
Notes:
1.  With the exception of the PSP award granted to Michael McMahon, no consideration is payable in order to exercise the awards set out above. In relation to the award 
granted to Michael McMahon, an exercise price of 10p per share (being the nominal value of an ordinary share in the capital of the Company) is payable in order to 
exercise such award. In normal circumstances each award will not be capable of being exercised prior to the vesting date.
2.  On 2 July 2015 Sean Birrane and Jeremy Simpson were granted an option to acquire the number of ordinary shares of the Company set out against their names under  
the terms of the Lakehouse plc Sharesave (SAYE scheme) at a fixed option price of 81.74p per ordinary share.
3.  On 2 April 2015 each of the Executive Directors were granted an award over 199 ordinary shares of the Company under the terms of the Lakehouse plc Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP). In each case the award was made as an award of free shares by Yorkshire Building Society in its capacity as the trustee of the SIP. In accordance with the 
rules of the SIP, no consideration was payable for the award of free shares granted to them.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
Executive Directors’ interest in shares of the Company (audited)
The table below sets out the Executive Directors’ share interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
Total number 
of shares held at 
30 September 2015
Interest in  
share incentive
schemes awarded
without performance
conditions, as at 
30 September 2015
Interest in  
share incentive 
schemes awarded 
subject to
performance 
conditions, as at 
30 September 2015
Shareholding
requirement
(% of basis salary)
Current
shareholding
(% of basic salary)
1
Stuart Black 5,463,684 199 258,426 200 2,298%
Sean Birrane 4,734,684 199 350,290 200 1,530%
Michael McMahon 7,892,460 199 224,719 200 3,818%
Jeremy Simpson 271,616 199 305,346 200 101%
Notes:
1.  As at and based on the share price of 96.75p on 30 September 2015.
2.  There were no changes to Executive Directors’ interests in the period 30 September 2015 to 9 December 2015.
The Remuneration Committee has approved share ownership guidelines whereby Executive Directors are expected to accumulate  
and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to not less than 200% of salary.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 66
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration 
continued The Executive Directors are subject to lock-up arrangements in 
respect of their ordinary shares held in the Company for a period 
expiring 30 days from the date the Company’s interim results  
for the six month period ended 31 March 2016 are published.  
In addition, for a further period following the expiry of the lock-up 
arrangement detailed above, Executive Directors are required to 
comply with an orderly market arrangement with the Company’s 
broker expiring on the day after publication of the Company’s 
pre-close trading statement in connection with publication of  
the Company’s interim results for the six month period ending  
31 March 2017.
Non-Executive Directors’ interest in shares of the Company
Non-Executive Directors As at 30 September 2015
1
Chris Geoghegan 56,179
Jill Ainscough –
Johnathan Ford 33,707
Note:
1.  There were no changes to Non-Executive Directors’ interests in the period  
30 September 2015 to 9 December 2015.
Implementation of policy in 2015/16
The following section summarises how remuneration 
arrangements will be operated from 2015/16.
Salary and benefits
Following the year-end, the Committee reviewed the base salaries  
for Executive Directors as part of the annual salary review process.  
In light of the increases made upon Admission, the Committee 
decided not to award an increase to Executive Directors for the year 
started 1 October 2015. The Company awarded salary increases  
to its workforce for 2015/16 which were equal in aggregate to an 
overall salary increase of 2%.
The table below sets out the annual salary of each of the Executive 
Directors on Admission and the proposed 2015/16 salary for each.
On Admission 2015/16 salary (% change)
Stuart Black £230,000 £230,000 0%
Sean Birrane £300,000 £300,000 0%
Michael McMahon £200,000 £200,000 0%
Jeremy Simpson £260,000 £260,000 0%
Benefits paid to Executive Directors include car allowance, private 
healthcare and life assurance. Company contributions to the 
Executive Directors’ retirement benefits remain at 15% of salary.
Annual bonus
The maximum opportunity for the Executive Directors will be 100% 
of salary. The performance measures in respect of the 2015/16 
bonus will be based on:
Performance targets Percentage
EBITA targets 80%
Individual objectives 20%
The detail of targets for the forthcoming year is commercially 
sensitive. However, the Committee will aim to provide appropriate 
explanation of bonus outcomes following the end of the bonus year. 
Recovery and withholding provisions apply to the 2015/16 bonus.
PSP 
It is intended that Executive Directors will receive PSP awards  
in 2015/16 with a face value of 100% of base salary. Awards  
will vest in three years’ time subject to performance targets  
being met and continued employment.
For the 2015/16 awards, 66.7% will be subject to Earnings  
per Share growth targets and 33.3% subject to a relative TSR 
condition against Target as set out below:
Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) Target
The EPS measure, which accounts for 66.7% of the award,  
is based on EPS compound annual growth as measured by 
comparing EPS relative to growth in the Retail Price Index over  
a three year performance period to 30 September 2018. None  
of the award will vest if compound annual growth in EPS is less 
than the Retail Prices Index in the period plus 4%, 25% will  
vest for RPI+4% growth and 100% will vest for RPI+12% p.a.  
growth or better.
Relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) Target
The TSR Target will measure the Company’s total shareholder 
return performance over a three year Performance Period 
commencing on the date of grant (‘TSR Performance Period’) 
relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Business 
Support Services and of the FTSE All-Share Heavy Construction 
subsectors (excluding any company which is in the FTSE 100 
Index) (the ‘Comparator Group’). For a ranking below median, 
none of the element of the award will vest. For a median ranking 
25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight  
line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above 
upper quartile.
Non-Executive Directors
The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are  
as follows:
Role Fee
Basic fee for Non-Executive Directors £40,000
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director £5,000
Additional fee for chairing of Board Committees £5,000
No increase in fees payable to Non-Executive Directors was 
awarded for 2015/16.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
67 Performance graph and table
The chart below illustrates Lakehouse plc’s TSR performance 
against the FTSE Small Cap index (excluding Investment Trusts). 
This index was chosen as Lakehouse is a constituent of the index.
FTSE Small Cap excluding 
Investment Trusts
Lakehouse plc
23 March 2015 30 September 2015
Lakehouse plc vs FTSE Small Cap excluding 
Investment Trusts Total Shareholder Return Index
100
107
104
Total Shareholder Return (rebased)
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2015, of £100 invested in 
Lakehouse plc at the start of the day on 23 March 2015, compared with that  
of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap excluding Investment Trusts.
The table below shows the single figure values for the Chief 
Executive Officer over the last two financial years together with 
bonus and LTIP vesting percentages. There was no bonus plan 
in operation in 2013/14 and there have been no PSP awards 
capable of vesting in either of the years being reported.
For the year ended 30 September 2014 2015
Single total figure £197,651 £315,343
Bonus payable % 0% 0%
LTIP vesting % 0% 0%
Shareholder Dilution
In accordance with the investor guidelines and the rules of the 
Company’s share schemes, the Company can issue a maximum  
of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10 year period to 
employees to satisfy vesting under all its share plans. In addition,  
of this 10% the Company can issue 5% to satisfy awards under 
discretionary or Executive plans such as the Performance Share 
Plan. Lakehouse operates all its share plans within these guidelines.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief  
Executive Officer
The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, 
benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer in 
2015/16 as against all other employees
% change in
base salary
% change in
benefits
% change
annual bonus
Chief Executive Officer No increase 
for 2015/16
n/a n/a
All employees 2% 0% 0%
Note:
The change in base salary for employees represents the average increase 
implemented as part of the Company’s annual pay review in September 2015.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the year on year change in the total 
remuneration costs for all employees against the Company’s key 
performance metric of EBITA.
2015
£m
2014
£m
%
change
Total remuneration 58.24 41.29 41.1
EBITA 22.22 10.81 105.6
Distributions (dividends,  
share buybacks) 0 0 n/a
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and 
making recommendations to the Board regarding the remuneration 
policy of the Group and for reviewing compliance against the  
Policy. During the year to 30 September 2015, the Remuneration 
Committee comprised the following Directors: Jill Ainscough (Chair), 
Johnathan Ford and Chris Geoghegan. The Executive Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer and Group HR Director attended parts of  
the Committee meetings by invitation. The Company Secretary  
acts as the Committee’s secretary. No individual is present when 
their own remuneration is being determined.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available  
to view at http://www.lakehouse.co.uk/investors/corporate-
governance/board-and-committee-terms-reference.
During the year New Bridge Street (NBS) were appointed by the 
Committee as their advisers. NBS received fees of £44,000  
for advisory services in connection with the Company’s IPO  
and fees of £10,480 for advice to the Committee on a time  
and materials basis. NBS is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct.  
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received  
has been objective and independent.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee and attendance 
during the year
Name of member
Date appointed
to Committee
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Maximum 
number of 
meetings the 
member could 
have attended
% of 
possible
meetings 
attended
Jill Ainscough 1 7 February 2015 3 3 100
Johnathan Ford 1 7 February 2015 3 3 100
Chris Geoghegan 1 7 February 2015 3 3 100
Statement of voting on the remuneration report at the AGM
This will be the first year that the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
will be put to shareholders for approval. There will be a binding 
vote on the remuneration policy and an advisory vote on the  
rest of the remuneration report. The results of the vote will be 
disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on  
the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee,  
on 9 December 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Jill Ainscough
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration  
continued The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial 
statements for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2015. 
The Directors’ report comprises pages 69 to 70 and the sections  
of the Annual Report incorporated by reference are set out below, 
which taken together, contain the information to be included in  
the Annual Report, where applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.4.
Board membership pages 44-45
Dividends page 69
Directors’ long term incentives page 66
Initial Public offering and share placing page 101 (note 27)
Corporate governance report pages 43-55
Future developments of the business  
of the Group
Our Strategy 
(pages 22-23)
Employee equality, diversity and involvement page 70
Post balance sheet events page 113
Information to the independent auditor page 70
Subsidiaries page 96
General information
The Company was incorporated as a public company limited by 
shares in England and Wales on 28 January 2015 with registered 
number 9411297. It is domiciled in the UK. The Company is premium 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered 
address is 1 King George Close, Romford, Essex RM7 7LS.
Share Capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out on page 100.
Employee share schemes
Details of the Company’s employee share schemes are set out  
on pages 101-103.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are sent out in the statement of profit  
or loss on page 77. The Directors recommend a payment of a  
final dividend of 1.9p per share on 8 February 2016 subject to 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 5 February 2016  
with a record date of 8 January 2016.
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors who served the Company during 2015 and at the 
date of this report are listed on pages 44 to 45 which include 
brief biographical details. Their remuneration and interests in  
the share capital of the Company are set out in the Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration on pages 64 to 68.
The following Board changes have occurred during the year:
Stuart Black Appointed 28 January 2015
Sean Birrane Appointed 28 January 2015
Jeremy Simpson Appointed 17 February 2015
Michael McMahon Appointed 17 February 2015
Chris Geoghegan Appointed 17 February 2015
Jill Ainscough Appointed 17 February 2015
Johnathan Ford Appointed 17 February 2015
The Company has adopted best practice guidelines and the 2014 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors will offer themselves for re-election at each Annual 
General Meeting.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment 
and interest in the shares of the Company are shown in the 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 64 to 68.
Substantial interests
As at 7 December 2015, the following interests in 3% or more  
of the Company’s ordinary share capital had been notified  
to the Company:
Number
of shares
Percentage
held (%)
Steven Rawlings 24,409,196 15.50
Nortrust Nominees Limited 8,804,358 5.59
State Street Nominees Limited 8,266,183 5.25
Michael McMahon 7,892,460 5.01
Nortrust Nominees Limited TDS ACCT 6,982,718 4.43
Paul King 5,951,840 3.78
Stuart Black 5,463,684 3.47
BBHISL Nominees Limited 5,337,929 3.39
Vidacos Nominees Limited 5,144,883 3.27
Kennedy Saunders 4,955,836 3.15
Sean Birrane 4,734,684 3.01
Lydia Graham 4,720,950 3.00
Directors’ indemnity
The Company’s Articles of Association provide, subject to  
the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors and 
officers of the Company and the Group in respect of liabilities 
they may incur in the discharge of their duties or in the exercise  
of their powers, including any liability relating to the defence of 
any proceedings brought against them which relate to anything 
done or omitted, or alleged to have been done or omitted,  
by them as officers or employees of the Company and the Group.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover is in place in 
respect of all the Company’s Directors.
Directors’ powers
As set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, the business 
of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all 
powers of the Company.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
69
Directors’ Report Our people
The Group’s policy is to consider all job applications on a  
fair basis free from discrimination in relation to age, sex, race, 
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or disability not related to  
job performance. Every consideration is given to applications  
for employment from disabled persons, where the requirement  
of the job may be adequately covered by a disabled person. 
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s 
policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment 
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and 
career development wherever appropriate.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of  
its employees and encourages the development of employee 
involvement in each of its operating companies through formal 
and informal meetings. It is the Group’s policy to ensure that all 
employees are made aware of significant matters affecting the 
performance of the Group through the operation of employee 
forums, information bulletins, informal meetings, team briefings, 
internal newsletters and the Group’s website and intranet.
Key performance indicators
Details of the Group’s key performance indicators can be  
found on pages 24 to 25.
Risks and uncertainties
Details of the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group  
can be found in the Strategic Review on pages 30 to 33.
Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s treasury policies and existing 
financial instruments are set out in Note 31 of the financial 
statements.
Donations
The Group made charitable donations in the year of £52,234. 
Information on the Group’s corporate and social responsibility 
activities can be found in the corporate and social responsibility 
review on pages 34 to 37. The Group made no political donations 
during the year.
Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to be held at the offices of Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood 
Street, London EC2V 7WS on 5 February 2016 will be sent 
out with this Annual Report and financial statements.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be  
found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 to 51. 
The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this Directors’ 
Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Independent auditors
The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness under 
section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 to continue in office  
and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at  
the Annual General Meeting.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval  
of this Annual Report confirms that:
 — In so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware
 — The Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to  
have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself  
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish  
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
By the order of the Board
Simon Howell
Company Secretary
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 70
Directors’ Report 
continued The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 
for the period.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
 — Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently
 — Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
 — State whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements
 — Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 — Properly select and apply accounting policies
 — Present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information
 — Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position 
and financial performance
 — Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 — The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
 — The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face
 — The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a  
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide  
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board 
of Directors on 9 December 2015 and is signed on its behalf by.
By order of the Board
Sean Birrane   Jeremy Simpson
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
71
Directors’ responsibilities Opinion on financial statements  
of Lakehouse plc
In our opinion:
 — the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and  
of the parent Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Group’s  
profit for the year then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union;
 — the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement  
of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash 
Flow Statement, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the 
related Notes 1 to 46. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
Going concern and the Directors’ 
assessment of the principal risks  
that would threaten the solvency  
or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement on  
page 42 that the Group is a going concern. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 — the Directors’ confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 — the disclosures on pages 30-33 that describe those risks and explain how  
they are being managed or mitigated;
 — the Directors’ statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether  
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting  
in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the  
Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from  
the date of approval of the financial statements;
 — the Director’s explanation on page 42 as to how they have assessed the prospects 
of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period 
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we 
did not identify any such material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks  
of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the 
greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing 
the efforts of the engagement team.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 72
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Lakehouse plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Long term contract revenue recognition and valuation  
of contract work in progress
The Group had total recognised revenue of £340.2m during  
the year (2014: £302.5m). 
The Construction division, where the Group predominately 
operates under long term fixed price contracts had recognised 
revenue of £77.0m (2014: £78.5m). The Regeneration division, 
where the Group recognises revenue based on a valuation of the 
work in progress with reference to a contracted schedule of 
rates, had recognised revenue of £161.7m (2014: £172.6m).
The recognition of revenue on long term contracts and the 
valuation of contract work in progress requires significant 
judgement by management. This includes the determination of 
estimated costs to complete, amount of margin to be recognised 
and the percentage of completion of the work in progress. 
Further detail on the Group’s revenue recognition policy is set  
out within the significant accounting policies in Note 2 and the 
associated key judgements involved are set out in the critical 
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
in Note 3 to the financial statements.
We held discussions with operational and financial management 
across the Group and reviewed underlying contracts to 
understand and challenge the nature of the revenue streams  
and the revenue recognition policies applied.
We performed focused testing of underlying long term contracts 
in the Construction division and underlying contract valuation 
reports in the Regeneration division. Our work assessing and 
challenging the key judgements made by management included:
 — Testing historic forecasting accuracy of estimating contract 
costs, to provide assurance over estimates made around 
costs to complete projects;
 — Agreeing a sample of underlying costs incurred to third-party 
invoices and quotes;
 — Discussing and validating the contract valuation report 
assumptions with operational management and agreeing  
the valuation amounts through to the third-party customer-
approved valuations of the work in progress; and
 — Agreeing margin recognised to date through to the contract 
valuation reports, challenging key assumptions used with  
the internal quantity surveyors, and agreeing future expected 
cost assumptions through to sub-contractor quotes and 
project budgets. 
Acquisition fair value accounting
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of H2O 
Nationwide, Providor, Orchard Energy and Sure Maintenance  
during the year for a total consideration of £32.3m, including 
£4.3m of contingent consideration. Details of these acquisitions  
are provided in the Strategic Review, on pages 26 to 29. 
The total fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired was 
£18.4m, of which £15.8m related to management’s assessment 
of the fair value of the separately identifiable intangible assets 
acquired, excluding goodwill. Total goodwill recognised on these 
acquisitions was £13.9m.
The valuation of the separately identified intangible assets and  
the contingent consideration required significant judgement and 
estimation, primarily around the cash flows assumed for the newly 
acquired businesses, the customer retention rates applied and 
the discount rate used.
Note 2 to the financial statements sets out the Group’s 
accounting policy for business combinations and Note 3 
discusses the critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of uncertainty in respect of the fair valuation of identifiable net 
assets acquired.
We tested and challenged the fair valuation of the intangible  
assets and the contingent consideration. This included, but  
was not limited to:
 — In conjunction with our valuation specialists, recalculating  
an appropriate discount rate with reference to market data  
and comparing that to the rate used by management;
 — Discussing the underlying business forecasts used with 
operational management at each business, challenging 
forecast cash flows and customer retention rates with 
reference to historical evidence of renewal and current  
sales to those customers;
 — Assessing and challenging the overall allocation between 
goodwill and intangible assets by validating the benefits 
associated with each acquisition through review of public 
announcements and discussion with senior management  
and comparing to the determined allocation to assess  
whether the nature of the acquisitions supported the  
quantum of goodwill recognised;
 — In conjunction with our valuation specialists, assessing and 
challenging the fair valuation of the contingent consideration  
in the Providor, Orchard and Sure acquisitions, which 
involved critically assessing and testing future forecast 
business performance by agreeing amounts to Board-
approved forecasts, underlying contracts and comparing 
against historic performance; and
 — Testing the underlying assets and liabilities acquired on a 
sample basis to assess whether they represented fair value.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
73 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Consideration of goodwill impairment
At 30 September 2015 the Group had goodwill and intangible 
assets totalling £83.5m, relating to the eight previous 
acquisitions made since 2011. 
Goodwill was assessed for impairment by management using  
a discounted cash flow model to determine value in use. This 
involved the use of a number of key assumptions and judgements, 
including the forecast cash flows for the individual businesses, 
assumed margin levels post-integration with Lakehouse, a long 
term growth rate and the discount rate applied. Note 14 to the 
financial statements outlines the key assumptions relating to  
the impairment review performed.
Note 2 to the financial statements outlines the Group’s accounting 
policy for testing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and 
Note 3 to the financial statements outlines the critical accounting 
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty relating to 
management’s review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets 
for impairment.
Our procedures for challenging management’s methodology  
and assumptions included:
 — Validating the integrity of the impairment models via 
reperformance of the calculations;
 — Performing sensitivity analysis to identify the assumptions which 
had the biggest impact on the discounted cash flow model;
 — Understanding the underlying process used to determine  
the risk adjusted cash flow projections and challenging them 
with reference to historical forecasts, actual performance  
and expected future changes to the business; 
 — Working with our valuation specialists to benchmark the 
discount rates and perpetuity growth rates applied to  
external macro-economic and market data; 
 — Reviewing trading, including post period end trading,  
to verify that it supported the forecast cash flows used  
in the impairment testing; and
 — Assessing the appropriateness the disclosures included  
in the financial statements.
Accounting for the Group reconstruction and subsequent listing
Immediately prior to its Initial Public Offering (‘IPO’) the Group 
underwent a Group reconstruction, with Lakehouse plc being 
incorporated as the new top company in the Group. As this  
was enacted by way of a share-for-share exchange with a new 
company not previously part of the Group, merger accounting 
was applied and this resulted in the creation of a merger  
reserve of £20.1m. The nature of this transaction is complex as  
there were multiple steps involved to first exercise all outstanding 
share options in the original holding company and then transfer 
ownership interests to the new company on a like for like basis. 
As a result of the complexity of the transaction the associated  
risk of material misstatement is therefore high. See Note 29  
where further details of this transaction are provided.
We have reviewed the legal documents and ‘steps plan’ 
associated with the reorganisation, as well as holding discussions 
with the Company’s advisers and its Company Secretary, to 
assess whether it qualified for merger accounting and that the 
accounting entries recorded by management are appropriate.
We have tested management’s calculation of the merger reserve 
and determined our own independent estimate to assess whether 
the closing position is materially accurate.
 
Provisions for contract losses
As outlined on page 40 of the Strategic Review and Note 7 to the 
financial statements, during the current year the Group has 
identified £5.4m of further losses to be incurred in closing out 
contracts in the social housing development business and a 
legacy contract issue identified in the prior year. 
The total loss which will have been incurred by the time both  
of these matters have been closed out is now expected to be 
£10.5m. At 30 September 2015 costs still to be incurred total 
£4.8m.
Significant judgement has been applied by management in 
determining the extent of the losses to be incurred and the 
expected costs to come in closing out these contracts.
We held discussions with operational management responsible 
for managing these contracts as well as divisional management, 
Group management and the Board of Directors in understanding 
and challenging the key judgements and estimations in the 
provisions recognised.
We performed focused testing of each provision calculation.  
Our work assessing and challenging the key judgements made  
by management included:
 — Testing historic forecasting accuracy of estimating associated 
costs, to provide assurance over estimates made around 
costs to complete;
 — Discussing and challenging cost estimations with the  
quantity surveyors by comparing to costs incurred to date  
and assessing the key judgements in their determination  
of expected costs to come;
 — Agreeing amounts to third-party documentation or to  
internal estimates prepared by the quantity surveyors;
 — Agreeing revenue valuations for the social housing 
development contracts to the third-party customer-approved 
valuations of the work completed.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 74
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Lakehouse plc 
continued The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed 
on pages 53 to 55.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole,  
and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with 
respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application  
of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable 
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. 
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1,000,000. This was determined based on a review of  
a number of the Group’s financial metrics, including a number of its profit metrics and a consideration  
of its net assets. The determined level of materiality represents approximately 7% of normalised profit 
before tax (‘PBT’) and 1.2% of net assets. Normalised PBT excludes the impact of the exceptional  
costs and the losses in the social housing development business, which have been excluded to  
reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in 
excess of £20,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting  
on qualitative grounds. We report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified  
when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the 
scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment,  
including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. 
In the current year the legacy entities in the Group were deemed to be the significant components of  
the Group and were subject to a full scope audit through work performed either by the Group team  
or other Deloitte UK component audit teams. This accounted for 96.4% of the Group’s total revenue, 
91.1% of its normalised PBT and 91.6% of its net assets. 
For the newly acquired entities Group level analytical review work was performed along with substantive 
testing of the opening balance sheets and acquisition fair value adjustments. These entities accounted 
for 3.6% of the Group’s total revenue, 8.9% of its normalised PBT and 8.4% of its net assets.
Audit and analytical review work on these entities was performed at lower levels of materiality 
determined by reference to the relative scale of the entity concerned. These component materiality  
levels were between £400,000 and £700,000. 
All entities are based in the UK and all significant components were subject to a visit by a senior 
member of the audit team in the current year.
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 — the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 — the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year  
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we  
are required to report  
by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate  
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 — the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures  
of Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to  
be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
75 Matters on which we  
are required to report  
by exception (continued)
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the Company’s compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report  
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective 
responsibilities  
of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for  
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply  
with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools  
aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality  
controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent  
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to  
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility  
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the  
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Paul Schofield, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, United Kingdom
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 76
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Lakehouse plc 
continued Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
77
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 September 2015
Notes
Underlying
results
1
 
2015
£’000
Exceptional 
and other
items
1
2015
£’000
2015
£’000
Underlying
results
1
 
2014
£’000
Exceptional 
and other
items
1
2014
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue 4 336,633  3,565  340,198  302,488  –  302,488 
Cost of sales (290,671) (6,089) (296,760) (271,639) –  (271,639)
Gross profit 45,962  (2,524) 43,438  30,849  –  30,849 
Other operating expenses (23,738) –  (23,738) (20,040) –  (20,040)
Share of results of joint venture –  –  –  –  –  – 
Operating profit before exceptional and other items 22,224  (2,524) 19,700  10,809  –  10,809 
Exceptional items 7 –  (8,656) (8,656) –  (4,405) (4,405)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 7 –  (6,465) (6,465) –  (5,101) (5,101)
Operating profit 4 22,224  (17,645) 4,579  10,809  (9,506) 1,303 
Finance expense 8 (639) (758) (1,397) (902) (478) (1,380)
Investment income 8 20  –  20  181  –  181 
Profit before tax 4,5 21,605  (18,403) 3,202  10,088  (9,984) 104 
Taxation 11 (4,116) 3,300  (816) (1,296) 811  (485)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to the 
equity holders of the Group 17,489  (15,103) 2,386  8,792  (9,173) (381)
Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic 13 1.9p (0.5)p
Diluted 13 1.7p (0.5)p
Underlying earnings per share
Basic 13 13.7p 11.7p
Diluted 13 12.3p 8.3p
1. Underlying results are stated before exceptional and other items. Exceptional and other items are detailed further in Note 7.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 78
Consolidated statement  
of financial position
At 30 September 2015
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 56,267  42,388 
Other intangible assets 15 27,199  17,876 
Property, plant and equipment 16 3,126  1,758 
Interests in joint venture –  – 
Trade and other receivables 20 1,131  1,666 
 87,723  63,688 
Current assets
Inventories 18 4,635  5,028 
Amounts due from customers under construction contracts 19 2,053  3,247 
Trade and other receivables 20 77,538  73,178 
Corporation tax receivable 1,683  – 
Cash and cash equivalents 6,934  4,230 
 92,843  85,683 
Total assets 180,566  149,371 
Current liabilities
Amounts due to customers under construction contracts 19 574  2,310 
Trade and other payables 21 80,344  73,033 
Loans and borrowings 22 –  3,333 
Finance lease obligations 26 403  165 
Provisions 24 3,279 –
Income tax payable –  445 
 84,600  79,286 
Net current assets 8,243  6,397 
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 5,013  4,854 
Loans and borrowings 22 –  7,878 
Finance lease obligations 26 340  66 
Provisions 24 3,170  6,668 
Deferred tax liability 25 1,979  1,813 
 10,502  21,279 
Total liabilities 95,102  100,565 
Net assets 85,464  48,806 
Equity 
Called up share capital 27 15,753  – 
Share premium account 29 25,314  31,820 
Share-based payment reserve 28 709  1,068 
Own shares 29 (290) – 
Merger reserve 29 20,067  1 
Retained earnings 23,911  15,917 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 85,464  48,806 
The financial statements of Lakehouse plc (registered number 09411297) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on 9 December 2015. They were signed on its behalf by:
J J C Simpson
Director
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of financial position.  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
79
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 September 2015
Share capital
£’000
Share
premium
account
£’000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£’000
Own shares
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total equity
£’000
At 1 October 2013 –  306  197  –  1  15,130  15,634 
Loss for the period –  –  –  –  –  (381) (381)
Premiums on shares issued in the year –  31,514  –  –  –  –  31,514 
Created on acquisition of subsidiary –  –  785  –  –  –  785 
Share-based payment charge –  –  86  –  –  –  86 
Deferred tax –  –  –  –  –  1,168  1,168 
At 30 September 2014 –  31,820  1,068  –  1  15,917  48,806 
Profit for the period –  –  –  –  –  2,386  2,386 
Conversion of share options –  628  (1,205) –  –  1,205  628 
Group restructuring 12,382  (32,448) –  –  20,066  –  – 
Issue of share capital 3,371  25,314  –  –  –  –  28,685 
Share-based payment charge –  –  846  –  –  –  846 
Purchase of own shares –  –  –  (290) –  –  (290)
Current tax – Excess tax deductions related  
to share-based payments –  –  –  –  –  2,506  2,506 
Deferred tax –  –  –  –  –  1,897  1,897 
At 30 September 2015 15,753  25,314  709  (290) 20,067  23,911  85,464  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 80
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows
For the year ended 30 September 2015
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of cash flows. 
Notes
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 33 19,099  15,339 
Interest paid (460) (649)
Interest received 11  34 
Taxation (1,903) (8,211)
Net cash generated from operating activities 16,747  6,513 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of shares in subsidiary, net of cash acquired (29,745) (15,296)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,169) (890)
Purchase of intangible assets (491) (475)
Sale of property and equipment 328  120 
Disposal of subsidiary business 40  80 
Net cash used in investing activities (31,037) (16,461)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares 30,000  2 
Proceeds from issue of pre-existing shares 975  – 
Proceeds from bank borrowings –  16,116 
Repayment of bank borrowings (11,667) (9,861)
Repayments to finance lease creditors (237) (202)
Purchase of own shares (290) –
Finance issue costs (472) (673)
Share issue costs paid (1,315) – 
Net cash generated from financing activities 16,994  5,382 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,704  (4,566)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,230  8,796 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6,934  4,230  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
81
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
General information
Lakehouse plc (registered number 09411297) is a company 
incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. 
The address of the registered office is 1 King George Close, 
Romford, Essex RM7 7LS.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates.
As part of a restructuring accompanying the Initial Public Offering 
(‘IPO’) of the Group on 23 March 2015, Lakehouse plc replaced 
Lakehouse Holdings Limited as the Group’s ultimate parent 
Company by way of a Share exchange agreement. Under IFRS 3 
this has been accounted for as a Group reconstruction under 
merger accounting. These financial statements present results  
for the Lakehouse Group of companies for the period from 
1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 as if Lakehouse plc  
had been incorporated on 1 October 2014. On 23 March 2015 
Lakehouse plc was listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
1. Basis of preparation
Basis of accounting
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted 
by the European Union. The financial statements have been 
prepared on the historical cost basis. Historical cost is generally 
based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for 
goods and services. The principal accounting policies adopted 
are set out below.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently 
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to 
the Group’s financial statements except as noted below.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the 
previous financial year except for the following new and revised 
Standards and Interpretations which have been adopted in the 
current year. Their adoption has not had any significant impact  
on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
 — IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements – the standard 
establishes the principles for the presentation of consolidated 
accounts when an entity controls one or more other entities
 — IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – the standard determines the 
type of joint arrangement by assessing the rights and 
obligations, and accounts for those rights and obligations  
in accordance with that type of joint arrangement
 — IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities – the 
standard sets out the requirements to disclose information that 
enables users of accounts to evaluate the nature of, and risks 
associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of 
these interests on its financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows
 — IFRIC 21 Levies – provides guidance on when to recognise  
a liability for a levy imposed by a government, both for levies 
that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and those  
where the timing and amount of the levy is certain
 — Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures  
for Non-Financial Assets – the amendment to the standard 
restricts the requirement to disclose the recoverable amount  
of an asset or CGU to periods in which an impairment loss has 
been recognised or reverses. It also expands the disclosure 
requirements applicable when an asset or CGU’s recoverable 
amount has been determined on the basis of fair value less 
costs of disposal
 — Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and 
Continuation of Hedge Accounting – this amendment allows the 
continuation of hedge accounting when a derivative is novated 
to a clearing counterparty and certain conditions are met Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 82
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
1. Basis of preparation (continued)
New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have 
issued the following standards and interpretations for annual periods beginning on or after the effective dates as noted below:
IAS/IFRS standards
Effective for accounting 
periods starting on or after
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 
(December 2014)
Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception 1 January 2016
1
Amendments to IAS 1 (December 2014) Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
1
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28  
(September 2014)
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an  
Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
1 January 2016
1
Amendments to IAS 27 (August 2014) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
1
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
1
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
1
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
1
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 (May 2014) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
1
Amendments to IFRS 11 (May 2014) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 19 (November 2013) Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 1 February 2015
1. The mandatory adoption under EU adopting regulations has not yet been confirmed.
The Directors do not anticipate the adoption of these other standards will have a material impact on the Group’s accounts in the period 
of initial application.
Basis of consolidation
The combined financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Group. The financial information  
of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same financial reporting period as the Company. Where necessary, adjustments are made to 
the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. Intercompany 
transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses transitions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
As a consolidated statement of comprehensive income is published, a separate profit and loss account for the parent Company is 
omitted from the Group financial statements by virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
2. Significant accounting policies
Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Directors regard the foreseeable future as no less than 12 months following publication of its 
annual financial statements, so in practical terms, 15 months from the balance sheet date. The Directors have considered the Group’s 
working capital forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance and the current  
state of its operating market, and are satisfied that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities and in 
compliance with the covenants arising from those facilities. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial information.
Operating segments
The Directors regard the Group’s reportable segments of business to be Regeneration, Compliance, Energy Services and 
Construction. Costs are allocated to the appropriate segment as they arise with central overheads apportioned on a reasonable basis. 
Operating segments are presented in a manner consistent with internal reporting; with inter segment revenue and expenditure 
eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination  
is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, liabilities 
incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquired company and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for control 
of the acquired company. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as non-trading exceptional costs in profit or loss as incurred. 
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
83
When the consideration transferred by the Group in a  
business combination includes an asset or liability resulting  
from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent 
consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and 
included as part of the consideration transferred in a business 
combination. Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted 
retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. 
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from 
additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ 
(which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about 
facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the 
contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period 
adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is 
classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is 
not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent 
settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as an asset or liability is re-measured at 
subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39 or  
IAS 37 as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss  
being recognised in profit or loss.
Acquisition costs
Whilst the Group remains in its growth phase, management 
believe that acquisition costs are exceptional in nature and 
classified as such, so as not to distort presentation of the 
underlying performance of the Group.
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially recognised and measured as set out above.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating 
units to which the goodwill has been allocated are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the 
unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other 
assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of 
each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill 
is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill  
is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets acquired separately
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired 
separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on  
a straight line basis over their useful lives. The estimated useful 
life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each 
reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being 
accounted for on a prospective basis. The estimated useful life  
for each asset type is set out below.
Computer software  – Three years
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and 
recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at 
their fair value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as their 
cost). Intangible assets are recognised if they are separable from 
the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual/legal rights. 
The amounts ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using 
suitable valuation techniques.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in  
a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same 
basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. 
The estimated useful economic lives and the methods used to 
determine the cost of intangibles acquired in a business 
combination are as follows:
Intangible asset Useful economic life Valuation method
Contracted customer 
order book
Remaining period  
of the contract
Expected cash  
flows receivable
Customer 
relationships
5 years Expected cash  
flows receivable
Non-compete 
agreements
5 years With or without 
method
De-recognition of intangible assets
An intangible asset is de-recognised on disposal, or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. The 
gain or loss from de-recognition of an intangible asset, measured 
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset, is recognised in profit or loss when 
the asset is de-recognised.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of a tangible 
asset, less its estimated residual value, over the estimated useful 
economic life of that asset on the following bases:
Leasehold improvements – over the period of the lease
Plant and equipment –  15% to 33% per annum on  
a straight line basis
Fixtures and fittings –  20% to 33% per annum on  
a straight line basis
Motor vehicles –  25% per annum on a straight  
line basis
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation 
method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the 
effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective 
basis. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their 
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, 
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon 
disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected  
to arise from the continued use of the asset. The gains or loss 
arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined  
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 84
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
2. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets  
excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an 
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate  
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit  
to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent 
basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also 
allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they 
are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units  
for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can  
be identified.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for 
impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication 
that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the 
recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit  
or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued  
amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as  
a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to  
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the 
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years.  
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is 
treated as a revaluation increase.
Exceptional items
Items which are significant by their size and nature require 
separate disclosure and are reported separately in the statement 
of comprehensive income. Details of exceptional items are 
explained in Note 7.
Contract losses on businesses being exited
Where a business activity is being exited and, due to legacy 
issues, losses are incurred in closing out contracts, management 
consider such losses should be highlighted separately as not 
related to the ongoing activity of the Group as they would 
otherwise distort the underlying earnings. Revenue and costs 
associated with the business activity being exited are presented 
separately from the underlying results of the Group on the face  
of the income statement with further details provided in Note 7.
Revenue
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
(a) Service contracts
Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a job or contract can 
be estimated reliably; revenue associated with the transaction is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion of work at the 
balance sheet date. The outcome of the transaction is deemed  
to be able to be estimated reliably when all of the following 
conditions are satisfied:
 — The amount of revenue can be measured reliably
 — It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group
 — The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to 
complete the transaction can be measured reliably
The Group has recognised revenue dependent on the nature of 
transactions in line with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. There are a range of 
contractual arrangements that require consideration:
(i) Schedule of Rates (‘SOR’) contracts
SOR contracts are set based on predetermined rates for a list  
of services and duties required by the customer. The billing 
arrangements can range from an all-encompassing price for each 
direct works, including an element of local site overhead, central 
overhead and associated profit; to the price of the direct works 
alone, with (where relevant) a separately agreed annual fee for 
local site and central overheads. The quantum of work performed 
in each period is captured and valued either against the agreed 
contract terms or with reference to costs incurred to date as  
a percentage of total expected costs, and the resulting revenue  
is recognised.
(ii) Fixed price (or lump sum) service contracts
Certain contracts, in particular for gas servicing and maintenance, 
are procured on a fixed price basis. Revenue for maintenance/
reactive activities is recognised on a straight line basis over the life 
of the contract. Revenue for servicing activities is recognised when 
the service is performed; however, when it is impractical for the 
customer and householder to sign off every job sheet, revenue is 
recognised on a straight line basis. Where the contract contains 
servicing and maintenance/reactive elements and the revenue 
cannot be split reliably between each element of the contract, it  
is recognised on a basis that most closely reflects the phasing  
of the servicing provision. Costs are recognised as incurred.
(iii) Formula-based income
When income is subject to formulaic valuation, revenue is 
recognised either when the valuation has been submitted to,  
and agreed by, the client; or where there are time constraints  
with the process for receiving agreement from the client, revenue 
can be recognised if prior experience shows that agreement will 
be received within one month of providing a valid submission  
and invoice. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
85
(b) Construction contracts
Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in 
accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’. When the 
outcome can be assessed reliably, contract revenue is recognised 
by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at 
the statement of financial position date. The stage of completion 
of the contract at the statement of financial position date is 
assessed with reference to the costs incurred to date as a 
percentage of the total expected costs.
Margin on contracts is calculated in accordance with accounting 
standards and industry practice. Industry practice is to assess  
the estimated final outcome of each contract and recognise the 
revenue and margin based upon the stage of completion of  
the contract at the statement of financial position date. The 
assessment of the final outcome of each contract is determined 
by regular review of the revenues and costs to complete that 
contract. Consistent contract review procedures are in place  
in respect of contract forecasting.
The gross amount receivable from customers for contract work  
is presented as an asset for all contracts in progress for which 
costs incurred, plus recognised profits (or less recognised 
losses), exceed progress billings.
The gross amount repayable to or paid in advance by customers 
for contract work is presented as a liability for all contracts in 
progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus 
recognised profits (less recognised losses). Full provision is 
made for losses on all contracts in the year in which the loss  
is first foreseen.
(c) Other income
(i) Contract variations
Margin associated with contract variations is only recognised 
when the outcome of the contract negotiations can be reliably 
estimated. Costs relating to contract variations are recognised as 
incurred. Revenue is recognised up to the level of the costs which 
are deemed to be recoverable under the contract.
(ii) Preliminaries income and pre-contract costs
All costs relating to pre-commencement and mobilisation are 
written off as they are incurred. However, where there is a 
contracted element within the preliminaries income to cover such 
costs, revenue and margin can be recognised in line with the 
contractual terms. 
(iii) Energy brokering services
Revenue associated with the provision of energy brokering 
services is provided in line with our performance obligations  
to the customer over the term of the energy agreement.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefit costs
The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain 
employees of the Group. The assets of these schemes are held  
in independently administered funds. The pension cost charged  
in the financial statements represents the contributions payable 
by the Group in accordance with IAS 19.
Share-based payments
The Company has issued equity-settled share-based awards and 
free shares to certain employees. The fair value of share-based 
awards with non-market performance conditions is determined  
at the date of the grant using a Black-Scholes model. The fair 
value of share-based awards with market related performance 
conditions is determined at the date of grant using the Monte 
Carlo model. Share-based awards are recognised as expenses 
based on the Company’s estimate of the shares that will 
eventually vest, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, 
with a corresponding increase in the share option reserve.
At each balance sheet date the Company revises its estimates of 
the number of options that are expected to vest based on service 
and non-market performance conditions. The amount expensed  
is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of 
the number of shares that will eventually vest. The impact of the 
revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit  
or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. 
Options with market-related performance conditions will vest 
based on Total Shareholder Return against a selected group  
of quoted market comparators. Following the initial valuation,  
no adjustments are made in respect of market-based conditions 
at the reporting date.
Employee Benefit Trust
The Company established an Employee Benefit Trust upon IPO, 
whose remit is to hold Lakehouse plc shares on behalf of its 
employees. The trust is wholly funded by the Group and although 
legally independent is deemed to be controlled by the Group  
as the Trust relies on it for funding and the Company is able to 
remove and appoint the trustees. The assets and liabilities of  
the Trust are therefore consolidated with those of the Group. 
Finance income and costs
Interest receivable and payable on bank balances is credited or 
charged to the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Finance arrangement fees and issue costs are capitalised and 
netted off against borrowings. Construction borrowing costs  
are capitalised where the Group constructs qualifying assets.  
All other borrowing costs are written off to the statement of 
comprehensive income as incurred.
Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the 
discount on long term liabilities, is charged to finance costs  
and recognised as an other item on the face of the statement  
of comprehensive income.
Costs incurred in raising finance
Costs incurred in raising finance are capitalised and amortised 
through the profit and loss account over the term of the funding 
as a trading item. In the event that the associated finance product 
is refinanced prior to its expiring, the unamortised costs  
are treated as an other item on the face of the statement of 
comprehensive income, to the extent that they are replaced  
with fees and costs associated with raising the new finance.  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 86
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
2. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the statement 
of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s 
asset for current tax is calculated using tax rates prevailing at the 
year end.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the statement of financial position liability method. Deferred tax 
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences; deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference  
arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other  
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the 
taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent  
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position 
date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of 
comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged 
or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the 
tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or 
settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities  
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss,  
except when they relate to items that are recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case,  
the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. When 
current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a 
business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting 
for the business combination.
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress, including land held for and in 
the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and  
net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where 
appropriate, labour and overheads which have been incurred  
in bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present 
location and condition. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion  
and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provision is made, where appropriate, to reduce the value  
of inventory to its net realisable value.
Property in the course of development and completed units are 
stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Direct cost 
comprises the cost of land, raw materials and development costs 
but excludes indirect overheads. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation 
and the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount recognised 
as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to 
settle the present obligation at the statement of financial position 
date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding 
the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying 
amount is the present value of those cash flows (when the time 
value of money is material).
Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are 
initially valued at fair value at the acquisition date. At the end  
of subsequent reporting periods, such contingent liabilities are 
measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised  
in accordance with IAS 37 and the amount initially recognised.
Joint venture
Under IFRS 11 we account for joint ventures under the equity 
method of accounting. Loans receivable and investments in joint 
venture entities are reviewed for impairment at each year end.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s statement of financial position when the Group becomes  
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The principal 
financial assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
(a) Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market  
are classified as loans and receivables. Trade receivables do not 
carry any interest and are stated at their initial value reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Provisions against trade receivables and amounts recoverable on 
contracts are made when objective evidence is received that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in accordance 
with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write 
down is determined as the difference between the assets carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
Individually significant balances are reviewed separately for 
impairment based on the credit terms agreed with the customer. 
Other balances are reviewed in aggregate. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
87
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call 
deposits with a maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts 
are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no 
right of offset with cash balances.
(c) Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less  
any provision for impairment. Any contingent consideration is 
recognised as an accrual at the acquisition date and is measured 
at the present value of the expected settlement using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time 
value of money. The increase in the accrual due to the passage  
of time is recognised as a non-trading interest expense. Any 
change to the value of contingent consideration identified within 
12 months of the year end in which the acquisition occurred is 
reflected in the original cost of the investment. Subsequent 
changes to the value of contingent consideration are reflected  
in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value of an investment may have suffered an impairment loss.  
If any such indication exists, the Company makes an estimate  
of the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher 
of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use 
represents the discounted net present value of expected future 
cash flows. If the recoverable amount is less than the value of the 
investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount, and an impairment loss  
is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive 
income of the Company.
(d) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated 
initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
(e) Bank and other borrowings
Interest-bearing bank and other loans are recorded at the fair 
value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for at amortised cost and 
on an accruals basis in the statement of comprehensive income 
using the effective interest method. Interest is added to the 
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise. 
(f) Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the 
contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured in future 
periods at their fair value. They are held at fair value through profit or 
loss and are re-measured at each reporting date with the movement 
being recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
(g) Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the 
substance of the financial instrument’s contractual obligations 
rather than the financial instrument’s legal form. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest  
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
(h) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded  
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Operating leases
Amounts due under operating leases are charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income in equal annual instalments 
over the period of the lease.
Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of  
the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the 
lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the 
statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are charged directly against income, unless they are 
directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are 
capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on 
borrowing costs.
Nature and purpose of each reserve in equity
Share capital is determined using the nominal value of shares  
that have been issued.
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal 
value of shares issued and the fair value of the total consideration 
receivable at the issue date.
Equity-settled share-based employee remuneration is credited  
to the share-based payment reserve until the related share 
options are exercised. Upon exercise the share-based payment 
reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The merger reserve has been created in relation to the  
Group reorganisation under IFRS 3, in which Lakehouse plc 
replaced Lakehouse Holdings Limited as the Group’s  
ultimate parent Company.
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which  
are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent  
from other sources. These estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are 
considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from  
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects 
only that period, or if the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources 
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have 
a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
discussed on page 88. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 88
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
uncertainty (continued)
(i) Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired
Upon acquisition of a business, its identifiable assets and 
liabilities are assessed to determine their fair value. The values 
attributed to assets and liabilities as part of this process are, 
where appropriate, based on market values identified for 
equivalent assets, together with management’s experience  
and assessments including comparison to the carrying value of 
assets of a similar condition and age in the existing business.
The accounting for the acquisitions in the period and the 
comparative period involved identifying and determining the fair 
values to be assigned to the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired and the cost of acquisition. The 
determination of fair values involved some key judgements and 
estimates, particularly in relation to the fair value of work in 
progress, other intangibles and deferred consideration. 
The key judgements and estimates made in determining the fair 
value of other intangibles were: 
 — An estimation of cash arising from future revenues and profit 
derived from the asset where this method is used to assess  
the fair value of the asset. The estimate will itself depend on 
key assumptions
 — The appropriate discount factor to apply to cash flows to 
determine the net present value of the cash flows
 — Identification of and judgements around the uncertainties  
of the valuation model and its sensitivity to error in its key 
assumptions
The key judgements and estimates made in determining the fair 
value of deferred consideration were: 
 — The appropriate discount factor
 — An estimation of future revenues and profit of the related 
businesses which determine the amount of the future 
consideration to be paid
 — Identification of and judgements around the uncertainties  
of the valuation model and its sensitivity to error in its  
key assumptions
(ii) Impairment of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets
The Group reviews the valuation of goodwill, other intangibles  
and tangible assets for impairment annually or if events and 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  
not be recoverable. The recoverable amount is determined  
based on value-in-use.
Critical accounting judgements
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those 
involving estimations (which are dealt with separately above),  
that the Directors have made in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
(i) Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of  
job or contract activity. Certain types of service provision pricing 
mechanisms require minimal judgement; however, service 
provision lump sum construction and construction-type contracts 
do require judgements and estimates to be made to determine  
the stage of completion and the expected outcome for the 
individual contract. 
(ii) Valuation of accrued revenue and amounts recoverable under 
construction contracts
The key judgements and estimates in determining the recoverable 
amounts of accrued revenue arising from construction and 
non-construction contracts were:
 — An estimation of work completed by subcontractors,  
as yet unbilled
 — An estimation of costs to complete
 — An estimation of remaining revenues
These assessments include a degree of uncertainty and therefore 
if the key judgements change, further adjustments of recoverable 
amounts may be necessary. 
4. Operating segments
The Group’s chief operating decision maker is considered to  
be the Board of Directors. The Group’s operating segments are 
determined with reference to the information provided to the 
Board of Directors in order for it to allocate the Group’s resources 
and to monitor the performance of the Group.
The Board of Directors has determined an operating management 
structure aligned around the four core activities of the Group,  
with the following operating segments applicable:
 — Regeneration: focused on planned and responsive 
maintenance services for social housing. A significant part of 
our services is project managing delivery and ongoing resident 
liaison in delivering planned services such as new kitchens, 
bathrooms, roofs and windows. The segment also has a small but 
growing responsive maintenance business. We contract with 
customers predominantly under framework agreements, where 
the number of suppliers will vary from one to a small group
 — Compliance: focused on gas, fire, electrics, air and water, 
where we contract predominantly under framework 
agreements. Services comprise the following:
 – installation, maintenance and repair-on-demand  
of gas appliances and central heating systems
 – compliance services in the areas of fire protection  
and building electrics
 – air and water hygiene solutions
 — Energy Services: we offer a range of services in the energy 
efficiency sector, including external, internal and cavity wall 
insulation, loft insulation, gas central heating and boiler 
upgrades. The services are offered under various energy 
saving initiatives including Energy Company Obligations 
(‘ECO’), Green Deal and the Scottish Government’s HEEPs 
(‘Home Energy Efficiency Programme’) Affordable Warmth 
programme. Clients include housing associations, social 
landlords, local authorities and private householders and  
we have trading relationships with five of the ‘big six’ utility 
suppliers and many of the leading utility challengers.  
We also provide renewable technologies, metering services  
and energy advisory and brokerage services to customers 
throughout the UK
 — Construction: focused on small to medium sized building 
projects, normally under framework agreements with an 
emphasis on the education sector. The business targets 
refurbishment projects for public buildings in the mid-range  
of value and tends to avoid large scale building projects. The 
segment also includes a social housing development business, 
which we are exiting and in relation to which, contract losses have 
been disclosed separately so as not to distort the underlying 
trading position of the Group and the Construction segment Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
89
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the  
same as those described in the accounting policies section.
All revenue and profit is derived from operations in the United 
Kingdom only.
The profit measure the Group uses to evaluate performance is 
Underlying EBITA. Underlying EBITA is defined as operating profit 
before deduction of exceptional and other items, as outlined in 
Note 7 and on the face of the income statement.
The Group accounts for inter-segment trading on an arm’s length 
basis. All inter-segment trading is eliminated on consolidation.
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and 
Underlying EBITA by reportable segment:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue
Regeneration 161,733  172,611 
Compliance 36,625  32,164 
Energy Services 68,047  22,939 
Construction 73,439  78,516 
Total segment revenue 339,844  306,230 
Inter-segment elimination (3,211) (3,742)
Total underlying revenue 336,633  302,488 
Businesses being exited  
(Construction segment) 3,565 –
Revenue from external customers 340,198  302,488 
Inter-segment trading comprises services provided by the 
Compliance segment for the Regeneration segment and are 
charged at prevailing market prices.
Reconciliation of underlying EBITA to profit before taxation
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Underlying EBITA by segment
Regeneration 10,510  9,267 
Compliance 4,509  2,548 
Energy Services 9,570  2,781 
Construction 4,838  2,539 
Central (7,203) (6,326)
Total underlying EBITA 22,224  10,809 
Contract losses on businesses being 
exited (Construction segment) (2,524) –
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (6,465) (5,101)
Exceptional costs (8,656) (4,405)
Investment income 20  181 
Finance costs (1,397) (1,380)
Profit before taxation 3,202  104 
The improvement to IFRS 8 issued in April 2009 clarified that  
a measure of segment assets should be disclosed only if that 
amount is regularly provided to the chief operating decision 
maker. Following a change in the internal reporting of segmental 
financial results during the year the chief operating decision 
maker no longer reviews segmental assets and liabilities on a 
regular basis. Only the Group consolidated statement of financial 
position is regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision 
maker and consequently no segment assets or liabilities are 
disclosed here under IFRS 8.
The results from Group’s major customers (defined as customers 
with 10% or more of Group revenue) for 2015 or 2014 which are 
included within the Regeneration segment, were as follows:
2015 2014
% of Group revenue 8% 11%
Revenue (£’000)
Revenue from customer A 28,279  33,126 
5. Profit before taxation
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 
is stated after charging/(crediting):
Amount of inventories recognised  
as an expense 42,984  36,137 
Depreciation of property, plant  
and equipment:
– owned 781  502 
– held under finance leases 236  170 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 15) 6,841  5,334 
Staff costs (Note 9) 57,392  41,200 
Equity-settled share-based payments  
(Note 9) 846  86 
Operating lease rentals:
– land and buildings 900  636 
– other 1,140  939 
Profit on disposal of property, plant  
and equipment (99) (87) Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 90
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
6. Auditor’s remuneration
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor  
and their associates for audit services  
to the Group:
–  The audit of the Company’s  
annual accounts 50  50 
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 236  100 
Total audit fees 286  150 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor  
and their associates for other services  
to the Group:
–  Taxation compliance services 40  21 
–  Taxation advisory services  
(corporate tax and indirect tax) 226 –
–  Other assurance services  
(interim review) 29 –
–  Corporate finance services (IPO) 830  240 
Total non-audit fees 1,125  261 
7.  Exceptional and other items, including amortisation  
of acquisition intangibles
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Contract losses on businesses  
being exited 2,524  – 
Exceptional items
Acquisition costs 803  696 
Contract costs 2,891  2,984 
Disposal of subsidiary business –  69 
Restructuring 832  – 
IPO costs 4,130  656 
Total exceptional items 8,656  4,405 
Amortisation of acquisition  
intangible assets 6,465  5,101 
Operating loss impact of exceptional  
and other items 17,645  9,506 
Accelerated amortisation of financing costs 355  – 
Unwinding discount of deferred 
consideration  403  478 
Loss before tax impact of exceptional  
and other items 18,403  9,984 
Imputed taxation credit  (3,300)  (811) 
Loss after tax impact of exceptional  
and other items 15,103  9,173 
Exceptional and other items in the year reduced the Group’s profit 
before tax by £18.4m and related to the following items:
Contract losses on businesses being exited 
Contract losses on businesses being exited of £2.5m (2014: £nil) 
represent further losses incurred on certain legacy contracts  
of our now ceased social housing development business. The 
associated revenues on these contracts were £3.6m. In the  
prior year, a loss of £1.2m was incurred in the social housing 
development business, which was treated as part of underlying 
activities in that year.
Exceptional items
Acquisition costs comprise legal, professional and other 
expenditure in relation to acquisition activity during the year  
and amounted to £0.8m (2014: £0.7m). 
Contract costs relate to exceptional remediation expenses 
associated with the resolution of historic matters on a specific 
contract. The amount of £2.9m above represents the costs of 
additional unforeseen work undertaken over and above the  
£3.0m provided in the year ending 30 September 2014. 
Restructuring costs of £0.8m (2014: £nil) relate to redundancy 
costs, the write-off of certain fixed assets and legal fees in relation 
to reshaping the Group structure during the year post-IPO.
IPO costs of £4.1m (2014: £0.7m) comprise legal, professional 
and incidental expenditure incurred in relation to the IPO. We also 
transferred £1.3m of costs to the share premium account to 
reflect costs directly attributable to the issue of new equity.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles was £6.5m for the year 
(2014: £5.1m); with the increase reflecting a full year impact of 
Everwarm, together with the acquisitions of H2O Nationwide, 
Providor, Orchard Energy and Sure Maintenance during the year.
Accelerated amortisation of financing costs
Finance costs of £0.4m (2014: £nil) represent the acceleration  
of unamortised costs on the term loan we replaced with a new 
revolving credit facility in December 2014, ahead of the IPO. 
Unwinding discount of deferred consideration
Unwinding discount of deferred consideration reflects the present 
value of deferred sums, discounted at a post-tax rate of 8.5%, 
due on outstanding payments for acquisitions.
Accounting treatment
The costs discussed above are considered non-trading because 
they are not part of the underlying trading of the Group and  
(aside from amortisation of acquisition intangibles and unwinding 
discount of deferred consideration) are not expected to recur  
year to year. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
91
8. Investment income and expenditure
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Investment income
Bank interest receivable 11  34 
Unwinding of discount on financial assets – 114 
Fair value gain on interest rate hedge 
arrangement 9  33 
 20  181 
Finance expenses
Interest payable on bank overdrafts  
and loans (986) (900)
Unwinding of discount on financial liabilities (411) (480)
 (1,397) (1,380)
9. Information relating to employees
The average number of employees, including Directors, employed 
by the Group during the year was:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Direct labour and contract management 1,022  628 
Administration and support 853  354 
 1,875  982 
The aggregate remuneration was as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Wages and salaries 51,638  36,770 
Social security 5,087  3,972 
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 667  458 
Equity-settled share-based payments 846  86 
 58,238  41,286 
10. Retirement benefit obligations
The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain 
employees of the Group. The assets of these schemes are held  
in independently administered funds. From 1 February 2014, the 
Group contributes to a new workplace pension scheme for all 
employees in compliance with the automatic enrolment legislation. 
The Group paid £667,000 in the year ended 30 September 2015 
(2014: £458,000). At the reporting date, £88,505 of contributions 
were payable to the funds (2014: £151,402).
11. Tax on profit on ordinary activities 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current tax
Current year 2,200  1,171 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (324) –
Total current tax 1,876 1,171
Deferred tax (Note 25) (1,060) (686)
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 816  485 
The tax assessed for the year is higher than the standard rate  
of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Profit before tax 3,202  104 
UK corporation tax rate 20.50% 22.00%
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate 657  23 
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 419  451 
Adjustment of deferred tax to closing  
tax rate 35  49 
Adjustments in respect of prior years – 
current tax (324) –
Adjustments in respect of prior years – 
deferred tax 29 –
Other adjustments – (38)
Tax expense for the year 816  485 
In addition to the amounts charged to the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income, the following amounts relating to tax 
have been recognised directly in equity:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current tax – excess tax deductions  
related to share-based payments on 
exercised options 2,506 –
Deferred tax (Note 25) 1,897 1,168
Total 4,403 1,168 
Factors that may affect future charges
The Finance Act 2014, which provides for a reduction in the main 
rate of corporation tax from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 
2015, was substantively enacted on 17 July 2014. This rate 
reduction has been reflected in the calculation of the deferred  
tax at 30 September 2015.
The Government intends to enact further reductions in the  
main tax rate down to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 
18% effective from 1 April 2020. As these tax rates were not 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the relevant rate 
reductions are not yet reflected in these financial statements in 
accordance with IAS 10, as it is a non-adjusting event occurring 
after the reporting period.
We estimate that the future rate change to 18% would further 
reduce our UK deferred tax liability recognised at 30 September 
2015 from £1,979,000 to £1,880,000. The actual impact will  
be dependent on our deferred tax position at that time. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 92
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
12. Dividends
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 1.9p per share amounting to £3.0m (2014: £nil) will be paid on 
8 February 2016 to the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 January 2016. The proposed final dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
13. Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
2015
Number
2014
Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings/(loss) per share 127,776,310  75,172,587
Diluted
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options and free shares 14,122,892  30,735,019 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings/(loss) per share 141,899,202 105,907,606 
Earnings/(loss) for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit  
attributable to the owners of the Company (£’000) 2,386 (381)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 1.9p (0.5)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 1.7p (0.5)p
Earnings for the purpose of underlying earnings per share being underlying net profit  
attributable to the owners of the Company (£’000) 17,489  8,792 
Underlying basic earnings per share 13.7p 11.7p
Underlying diluted earnings per share 12.3p 8.3p
The number of shares in issue at 30 September 2015 was 157,527,103.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excludes those accounted for in the own shares reserve 
(Note 29).
14. Goodwill
£’000
At 1 October 2013 7,491 
Recognised on acquisition of Foster Property Maintenance Limited 17,421 
Recognised on acquisition of Everwarm Limited 17,476 
At 30 September 2014 42,388 
Recognised on acquisition of H2O Nationwide Limited (Note 34) 2,209 
Recognised on acquisition of Providor Limited (Note 34) 2,591 
Recognised on acquisition of Orchard Holdings UK Limited (Note 34) 5,005 
Recognised on acquisition of Sure Maintenance Group Limited (Note 34) 4,074 
At 30 September 2015 56,267 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there is an indication that goodwill 
may be impaired. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) according to the level  
at which management monitors that goodwill. 
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
93
The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the following CGUs:
CGU Segment
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
K&T Heating Services Limited Compliance 3,774  3,774 
Allied Protection Limited Compliance 3,717  3,717 
Foster Property Maintenance Limited Regeneration 17,421  17,421 
Everwarm Limited Energy services 17,476  17,476 
H2O Nationwide Limited Compliance 2,209 –
Providor Limited Energy services 2,591 –
Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited Energy services 5,005 –
Sure Maintenance Group Limited Compliance 4,074 –
 56,267  42,388 
An asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the unit’s recoverable amount which is based upon value in use. At each reporting 
date impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of the CGU to its value in use. At 30 September 2015 the 
value in use for each CGU was calculated based upon the cash flow projections of the latest Board approved three year forecasts 
together with a further two years estimated and an appropriate terminal value based on perpetuity. 
This is discussed further below.
Future budgeted and forecast profits are estimated by reference to the average operating margins achieved in the period immediately 
before the start of the budget period.
The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets. The Directors believe that 
the gas, fire safety, air and water, property maintenance and the energy and insulation markets will continue to present strong growth 
opportunities for the CGUs outlined above respectively. Management believe that future growth in these markets is underpinned by  
a number of factors including:
 — A pipeline of new tenders
 — Further opportunities to work with other Group companies
 — Client demand for safe buildings that are affordable to heat 
 — Adjacent market opportunities
The key assumptions used in the impairment reviews are outlined below.
The growth rate applied to the cash flows in years four and five of the impairment review performed at 30 September 2015 was  
2% (2014: 0%–5%). A terminal growth rate of 1% (2014: 0%–1%) was applied. The pre-tax discount rate applied was 11%  
(2014: 10%–11%). The Directors consider that reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying 
amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 
  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 94
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
15. Other intangible assets
Acquisition intangibles
Computer 
software
£’000
Contracted 
customer 
order book
£’000
Customer 
relationships
£’000
Non-
compete 
agreements
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 October 2013 605  4,265  1,913  –  6,783 
Recognised upon acquisition –  12,323  6,300  –  18,623 
Additions 475  –  –  –  475 
Disposals (3) –  –  –  (3)
At 30 September 2014 1,077  16,588  8,213  –  25,878 
Recognised upon acquisition 30  7,750  5,559  2,508  15,847 
Additions 491  –  –  –  491 
Disposals (276) –  –  –  (276)
At 30 September 2015 1,322  24,338  13,772  2,508  41,940 
Amortisation
At 1 October 2013 195  1,890  583  –  2,668 
Amortisation charge 233  3,800  1,301  –  5,334 
Disposals –  –  –  –  – 
At 30 September 2014 428  5,690  1,884  –  8,002 
Amortisation charge 376  4,128  2,161  176  6,841 
Disposals (102) –  –  –  (102)
At 30 September 2015 702  9,818  4,045  176  14,741 
Carrying value
At 30 September 2015 620  14,520  9,727  2,332  27,199 
At 30 September 2014 649  10,898  6,329  –  17,876 
Contracted customer order book
The value placed on the order book is based upon the cash flow projections over the contracts in place when a business is acquired. 
Due to uncertainties with trying to forecast revenues beyond the contract term, the Directors have valued contracts over the 
contractual term only. The value of the order book is amortised over the remaining life of each contract which typically range from  
one to five years.
Customer relationships
The value placed on the customer relationships are based upon the non-contractual expected cash inflows forecast on the base 
business over and above contracted revenues. The value of customer relationships is amortised over five years.
Non-compete agreement
The value placed on the non-compete agreements are based upon the non-compete clause and knowledge and know-how of the 
former owners of the acquired businesses. The value of non-compete is amortised over five years.
The annual WACC discount rate employed in the calculation of the acquisition intangibles is 13.00% (2014: 13.00%). Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
95
16. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Plant and 
equipment
£’000
Fixtures and 
fittings
£’000
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 October 2013 45  191  431  930  1,597 
Acquisition in the year 23  68  323  673  1,087 
Additions 439  92  253  106  890 
Disposals – (13) (27) (556) (596)
At 30 September 2014 507  338  980  1,153  2,978 
Acquisition in the year 32  99  311  830  1,272 
Additions 537  77  224  331  1,169 
Disposals – (46) (3) (499) (548)
At 30 September 2015 1,076  468  1,512  1,815  4,871 
Depreciation
At 1 October 2013 4  111  260  729  1,104 
Charge for the year 51  54  193  374  672 
Disposals – (8) (25) (523) (556)
At 30 September 2014 55  157  428  580  1,220 
Charge for the year 164  75  305  473  1,017 
Disposals – (43) (3) (446) (492)
At 30 September 2015 219  189  730  607  1,745 
Net book value
At 30 September 2015 857  279  782  1,208  3,126 
At 30 September 2014 452  181  552  573  1,758 
Included within the net book value of tangible fixed assets is £837,000 (2014: £377,000) in respect of assets held under finance 
leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £236,000 (2014: £170,000). Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 96
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
17. Group entities
Subsidiaries
The Group’s subsidiary undertakings are:
Country of 
incorporation
Class of  
capital % Principal activity
Allied Protection Limited England Ordinary 100 Fire alarm engineers
Everwarm Limited Scotland Ordinary 100 Energy and insulation services
F J Jones Holdings Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
F J Jones Heating Engineers Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Foster Property Maintenance Limited England Ordinary 100 Property maintenance
H2O Nationwide Limited England Ordinary 100 Water hygiene
K&T Heating Services Limited England Ordinary 100 Plumbing and heating engineers
Lakehouse Compliance Services Limited England Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding company
Lakehouse Contracts Limited** England Ordinary 100 Construction and Regeneration
Lakehouse Design and Build Limited England Ordinary 100 Construction
Lakehouse Energy Services Limited** England Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding company
Lakehouse Holdings Limited* England Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding company
Lakehouse Property Investments Limited** England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Orchard Energy Limited England Ordinary 100 Energy procurement 
Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited England Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding company
Orchard Utilities Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading 
Orchard Water Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Providor Limited England Ordinary 100 Smart metering
Smart Metering Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Smart Metering Commercial Installations Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Smart Metering Domestic Installations Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Smart Metering Modules Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Speedfit Limited England Ordinary 100 Non-trading
Sure Maintenance Limited England Ordinary 100 Maintenance and installation of domestic  
gas heating systems
Sure Maintenance Group Limited England Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding company
*   Directly held investment.
**   Investment held by Lakehouse Holdings Limited.
Joint ventures
The Group’s joint ventures are:
Country of 
incorporation
Class of  
capital % Principal activity
Warmworks Scotland LLP Scotland Ordinary 33.33 Energy and insulation services
Details of Warmworks
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Group share of profit of joint venture – –
Warmworks commenced trading in September 2015 and under IFRS 11, no share of the initial loss associated with the mobilisation 
costs (estimated at £165,000) was recognised, in light of the entity having no investment value in the books of the Group. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
97
18. Inventories
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 3,739  1,408 
Other work in progress (which includes 
development properties) 896  3,620 
 4,635  5,028 
There are no inventories at 30 September 2015 or 30 September 
2014 carried at fair value less costs to sell. The Directors 
consider that the replacement value of inventories is not materially 
different from their carrying value. There was no security held  
at any reporting date over inventory.
19.  Amounts due from and to customers under 
construction contracts
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Contracts in progress at the  
reporting date:
Contract costs incurred plus recognised 
profits less recognised losses to date 273,051  216,827 
Less: progress billings (271,572) (215,890)
 1,479  937 
Amounts due from construction contract 
customers 2,053  3,247 
Amounts due to construction contract 
customers (574) (2,310)
 1,479  937 
Details of retentions held by customers for performance  
under construction contracts are disclosed in Note 20. As at 
30 September 2015 there were no advances received from 
customers for work performed under construction contracts 
(2014: £nil).
20. Trade and other receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current
Trade receivables 35,114  37,192 
Construction contract retentions receivable 3,489  2,305 
Related party loans receivable 381  499 
Social security and other taxes 379  2,139 
Other receivables 4,323  4,353 
Prepayments 2,011  802 
Accrued income 31,841  25,888 
 77,538  73,178 
Non-current
Construction contract retentions receivable 266  1,144 
Related party loans receivable 150 –
Other receivables 715 522 
 1,131  1,666 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Trade receivables
Trade receivables not due 26,884  27,529 
Trade receivables past due 1-30 days 5,230  5,348 
Trade receivables past due 31-60 days  2,150  2,518 
Trade receivables past due 61-90 days 705  953 
Trade receivables past due over 90 days 1,122  1,782 
Gross trade receivables 36,091  38,130 
Provision for bad debt brought forward (938) (64)
Debtor provision recognised upon 
acquisition (309) (550)
Amounts written off receivables ledger 14  3 
Debtor provision credited/(charged)  
to profit or loss in the year 256  (327)
Provision for bad debt carried forward (977) (938)
Net trade receivables 35,114  37,192 
The entire provision for bad debts of £977,000 (2014: £938,000) 
is past due over 90 days. 
Included in other receivables is £nil (2014: £342,000) of unpaid 
share capital and share premium. This is receivable from various 
Directors and employees, details are included in Note 36 – 
related party transactions.
Included in related party loans receivable is an amount of 
£381,143 owed by La Maison Du Lac Limited to Lakehouse 
Contracts Limited (2014: £462,439). The loan is unsecured  
and interest free. Messrs S Rawlings, P King and P Broider are 
shareholders and Directors of La Maison Du Lac Limited. During 
the reporting period, Messrs S Rawlings, P King and P Broider 
were Directors of Lakehouse Holdings Limited.
Included in related party loans receivable is an amount of 
£150,000 owed by the former owners of Everwarm (2014: £nil).
Included in related party loans receivable is an amount of £nil 
owed by Ms C King to Lakehouse Contracts Limited (2014: 
£26,196). Ms C King is a former employee of Lakehouse and 
Company Secretary of Lakehouse Design & Build Limited and  
is the sister of Mr S Rawlings, a former Director of Lakehouse 
Holdings Limited.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
receivables approximates to their fair value. Debts provided for 
and written off are determined on an individual basis and included 
in administrative expenses in the financial statements. The 
Group’s maximum exposure on credit risk is fair value on trade 
receivables as presented above. The Group has no pledge as 
security on trade receivables.
Of the trade receivables balances at the end of the year 
£670,000 (2014: £1,971,000) was due from customer A, being  
a major customer of the Group. In addition, at the end of the year 
a total of £3,028,000 was owed by one other customer whom 
represented more than 5% of the total balance of trade 
receivables (2014: £7,008,000 – three customers). Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 98
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
21. Trade and other payables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current
Trade payables 30,459  23,999 
Sub-contract retentions 3,830  2,243 
Accruals 36,184  40,191 
Deferred income 3,727  1,729 
Social security and other taxes 5,656  3,018 
Other payables 488  1,853 
 80,344  73,033 
Non-current
Sub-contract retentions 282  1,441 
Accruals 4,731  3,413 
 5,013  4,854 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables 
approximates to their fair value for each reported period. Trade 
payables are non-interest bearing. Average settlement days are 
38 days (2014: 32 days).
Included in accruals is deferred consideration arising from 
business combinations analysed as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Current 4,928  9,915 
Non-current 4,293  3,195 
 9,221  13,110 
The fair value of the consideration has been assessed in 
accordance with the Sale & Purchase Agreements. The non-
current element of the expected settlement has been discounted 
using a post-tax discount rate of 2.68% (2014: 2.45%) that reflects 
the time value of money. £7,181,000 of the deferred consideration 
is contingent on future earnings of the businesses acquired. The 
amount that is non-current (£3,090,000) has been discounted 
using a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% that reflects both the time 
value of money and the inherent estimation uncertainty.
22. Borrowings
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Bank loans and credit facilities  
at amortised cost:
Current – 3,333 
Non-current – 7,878 
– 11,211 
Maturity analysis of bank loans and  
credit facilities falling due:
In one year or less, or on demand – 3,333 
Between one and two years – 3,332 
Between two and five years – 4,546 
– 11,211 
In October 2013 the Group renegotiated its bank facilities  
to provide an overdraft facility of £2,000,000 together  
with a £15,000,000 term loan repayable in instalments.  
At 30 September 2014 a balance of £11,667,000 was 
outstanding on the term loan, with 11 instalments outstanding  
and a final amount of £2,500,000 being due on 21 October 
2017; no amount of the overdraft facility was outstanding.  
An average interest cost of 4.29% was incurred on the term  
loan in 2014. The term loan was fully repaid in December 2014.
In December 2014, the Group renegotiated its bank facilities  
to provide an overdraft facility of £5,000,000 together with a 
revolving credit facility of £30,000,000. In light of the net cash 
position of the Group, the revolving credit facility was undrawn  
at 30 September 2015.
23. Net cash/(debt)
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,934  4,230 
Bank loans and credit facilities – (11,667)
Unamortised finance costs  
(included in other receivables) 418 –
Unamortised finance costs  
(included in borrowings) – 456 
Finance lease obligations (743) (231)
 6,609  (7,212) Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
99
24. Provisions
Share costs
£’000
Property 
development
£’000
Legal and 
other
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 October 2013 –  –  50  50 
Identified on acquisition –  –  100  100 
Additional provision 459  1,254  4,805  6,518 
At 30 September 2014  459  1,254  4,955  6,668 
Identified on acquisition –  –  818  818 
Additional provision –  –  2,891  2,891 
Released in the year  –  (154) (493) (647)
Utilised in the year (459) –  (2,822) (3,281)
At 30 September 2015 –  1,100  5,349  6,449 
Current provisions –  1,100 2,179 3,279 
Non-current provisions – – 3,170 3,170 
Share costs
Share costs relate to the expense associated with compensating certain employees on IPO, for the higher than expected costs  
faced on exercising share options extant at 30 September 2014. This crystallised entirely during the financial year, following the IPO  
in March 2015.
Property development
Property development costs represent sums due to the former owners of the land relating to the Manor Road housing development 
under the terms of the sale. This sum was paid in October 2015.
Legal and other
Other costs relate to property dilapidation obligations, potential contract settlement costs and other potential legal settlement costs, 
including a provision of £200,000 for legal expenses held on the balance sheet of the Company. The largest figure relates to the 
potential contract settlement costs which have been made on management review of contractual obligations faced on legacy contracts 
and include the Contract costs referred to in Note 7. These are expected to result in an outflow of economic benefit over the next one 
to three years.
25. Deferred taxation
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities) and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
reporting period.
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£’000
Short term 
temporary 
differences
£’000
Share-based 
payments
£’000
Acquired 
intangibles
£’000
Tax losses
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 October 2014 30  138  1,464  (3,445) –  (1,813)
Acquisition of subsidiary (45) 85  – (3,163) –  (3,123) 
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss 8  16  (257) 1,293  –  1,060 
(Charge)/credit direct to equity –  –  (1,168) –  3,065  1,897 
At 30 September 2015 (7) 239  39  (5,315) 3,065  (1,979)
Deferred tax asset element –  239  39  –  3,065  3,343 
Deferred tax liability element (7) –  –  (5,315) –  (5,322)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The analysis above shows the 
gross position on deferred tax which has been offset in the statement of financial position. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 100
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
26. Finance lease obligations
These comprise legacy lease arrangements that were in place with previous acquisitions and lease arrangements entered into by 
subsidiaries acquired in the year.
Future 
minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
Interest
£’000
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
At 1 October 2013 43  (5) 38 
New obligations on acquisition 429  (34) 395 
Repayments (226) 24  (202)
At 30 September 2014  246  (15) 231 
New obligations on acquisition 897  (148) 749 
New obligations  40  (7) 33 
Repayments (299) 29  (270)
At 30 September 2015 884  (141) 743 
Future lease payments are due as follows:
Future 
minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
Interest
£’000
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
Less than one year 471  (68) 403 
Between two and five years 413  (73) 340 
At 30 September 2015 884  (141) 743 
Less than one year 167  (2) 165 
Between two and five years 79  (13) 66 
At 30 September 2014 246  (15) 231 
27. Called up share capital
Allotted, called-up and fully paid;
Lakehouse plc
2015
Number
Lakehouse Holdings 
Limited
2014
Number
Lakehouse plc
2015
£
Lakehouse Holdings 
Limited
2014
£
– 15,620 Ordinary shares of £0.01 each –  156 
– 1,369 A ordinary shares of £0.01 each –  14 
– 3,180 B ordinary shares of £0.015 each –  48 
– 100 C ordinary shares of £0.015 each –  2 
– 5,380,000 D1 ordinary shares of £0.0000127581 each –  69 
– 2,000 E ordinary shares of £0.015 each –  30 
157,527,103 – Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 15,752,710  – 
 15,752,710  319  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
101
On 13 February 2015 and 17 March 2015, in connection with  
the pre-IPO reorganisation, the Lakehouse Holdings Limited 
shareholders entered into a Share-for-Share Exchange Agreement 
with the shareholders of Lakehouse plc. As a result Lakehouse 
plc became the ultimate parent Company of the Group, with a 
100% investment in Lakehouse Holdings Limited. This transaction 
was accounted for under the merger relief provisions and accordingly 
Lakehouse plc has produced consolidated financial statements as 
if it were the parent of the Group for the entire period. Accordingly, 
the share capital presented in the comparatives reflects the share 
capital structure of Lakehouse Holdings Limited as the then 
parent Company of the Group being consolidated. 
During the year the Company issued 157,527,103 ordinary  
shares at £0.89 per share with a nominal value of £0.10. This 
comprised 123,819,237 related to replacement shares in relation 
to the Share for Share Exchange Agreement with the shareholders 
of Lakehouse Holdings Limited. The balance of 33,707,866 
represented new shares issued on IPO, where we credited  
share capital £3,370,787 and share premium of £26,629,214 
(2014: 5,380,000 D1 ordinary shares with a nominal value  
of £0.0000127581, crediting share capital £69 and share 
premium of £31,471,637). 
Details of options granted under the Group’s share scheme are 
contained in Note 28.
Voting rights
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive notice  
of, attend or participate in any general meeting of the Company 
and to receive any notice of a written resolution proposed to  
be passed by the Company.
On a show of hands at a meeting the holders of any such shares 
shall be entitled to one vote for all such shares held.
On a poll at a meeting, for a written resolution, the holder of such 
shares shall be entitled to such number of votes as corresponds 
to the nominal value (in pence) or the relevant shares held.
28. Share-based payments 
The Company has established a Share Incentive Plan (SIP), 
Sharesave Scheme (SAYE), Company Share Option Plan 
(CSOP), Performance Share Plan (PSP) and a Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan (DSBP) in the year ended 30 September 2015.
The net charge recognised for share-based payments in the year 
was £846,000 (2014: £86,000).
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is an HMRC approved scheme plan open to all UK 
employees at the date of the IPO, 23 March 2015. Each employee 
was given £200 of free shares; there were no performance 
conditions apart from remaining in employment for three years 
from the date of award.
Shares totalling 325,842 were transferred directly to the SIP trust 
and on 29 April 2015, 236,213 share allotted in relation to the 
initial award of shares under the SIP.
Sharesave Scheme (SAYE)
The SAYE is open to all employees who satisfy certain criteria, 
particularly relating to period of employment. The exercise price  
is equal to the average of the closing quoted market price for the 
preceding three days less a discretionary discount approved by 
the Board of not less than 80% of the market value of a share. 
The Scheme is for three years, during which the holder must 
remain in the employment of the Group, and the shares can be 
exercised within six months from the maturity of the Scheme.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The CSOP is open to all employees at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. The exercise price is equal to the 
average of the closing quoted market price at the date of grant. 
The vesting period is for three years, during which the holder must 
remain in the employment of the Group and is conditional on the 
achievement of a mix of market and non-market performance 
conditions from the date of granting the option to the date of 
potential exercise. 
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is open to certain employees at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee at a limit not exceeding 150% of the 
individual’s base salary at the date of grant. The exercise price is 
£nil with the exception of the PSP award to Michael McMahon, 
which has an exercise price of 10p per share (being the nominal 
value of a share in the capital of the Company). The vesting 
period is for three years, during which the holder must remain  
in the employment of the Group and is conditional on the 
achievement of a mix of market and non-market performance 
conditions from the date of granting the option to the date of 
potential exercise. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP)
The DSBP will be operated in conjunction with the Company’s 
(and its subsidiaries’) annual discretionary bonus arrangements 
from time to time and will provide a means by which a proportion 
of an employee’s annual discretionary non-contractual bonus  
can be deferred. The number of shares placed under an award 
granted will be such number of shares as has a market value 
(measured at the grant date) as near to, but not exceeding,  
the amount of bonus that has been granted under such award.  
No award was made under the DSBP in the year. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 102
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
28. Share-based payments (continued)
SIP SAYE CSOP PSP DSBP
Number
At 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 –  –  –  –  – 
Granted  236,213 1,853,785  536,653 1,687,521  – 
Lapsed  –  –  –  –  – 
Forfeited –  –  –  –  – 
Exercised –  –  –  –  – 
At 30 September 2015 236,213 1,853,785  536,653 1,687,521  – 
Weighted average exercise price (p)
At 1 October 2013 and 30 September 2014 –  –  –  –  – 
Granted 0.00p 81.74p 93.17p 0.00p – 
Lapsed  –  –  –  –  – 
Forfeited –  –  –  –  – 
Exercised –  –  –  –  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2015 0.00p 81.74p 93.17p 0.00p – 
Exercisable at 30 September 2015 –  –  –  –  – 
Outstanding at 30 September 2014 –  –  –  –  – 
Exercisable at 30 September 2014 –  –  –  –  – 
Fair value of options granted
Weighted fair value of one option 86.96p 24.9p 24.8p 65.5p –
Assumptions used in estimating the fair value
Share price at date of grant 99.75p 95.50p 95.00p 89.00p –
Exercise price – 81.74p 93.17p – –
Expected dividend yield 4.60% 2.69% 4.60% 4.82% –
Risk-free rate 1.21% 0.94% 1.21% 0.60% –
Expected volatility 40.37% 30.12% 40.37% 33.68% –
Expected life 3 years 3.25 years 3 years 3 years –
In the year ended 30 September 2015, options were granted in March 2015 in respect of the PSP and CSOP, April 2015 in respect of 
the SIP and July 2015 in respect of the SAYE. In the case of the SAYE and SIP schemes the fair value was determined using the Black 
Scholes model with the assumptions outlined above. One-third of the PSP and CSOP options have market-based vesting criteria and 
as such their fair value was determined using the Monte Carlo model. The remaining PSP and CSOP options had non market-based 
vesting criteria and were valued using the Black Scholes Model.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options at 30 September 2015 was 2.7 years. The aggregate of the 
estimated fair values of options granted on the above dates was £1.9m. No options were exercisable at 30 September 2015.
The SIP and SAYE were valued using a Black-Scholes model and the CSOP and PSP a combination of Black-Scholes and Monte 
Carlo models, weighted according to the performance conditions of both. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
103
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 
2015
Share price (p) 89.00 – 99.75
Exercise price (p) 0.00 – 93.17
Expected volatility (%) 30.1 – 40.4
Expected life (years) 3.00 – 3.25
Risk-free rate (%) 0.9 – 1.2
Expected dividends (%) 2.7 – 4.8
The inputs into the Monte Carlo model are as follows: 
2015
Share price (p) 89.00 – 95.00
Exercise price (p) 0.00 – 93.17
Expected volatility (%) 33.7 – 40.4
Expected life (years) 3.00
Risk-free rate (%) 0.6 – 1.2
Expected dividends (%) 4.6 – 4.8
Expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over  
the expected life of the schemes for a group of comparator listed 
companies. The expected life is based upon scheme rules and 
reflect management’s best estimates for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Pre IPO
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2014
Options
At 1 October 2013 £6.04  8,712 
Granted £0.28 1,498,868 
Exercised – –
Expired £111.00  (30)
At 30 September 2014 £0.31 1,507,550 
At 30 September 2014 there were options over 5,000 ordinary 
shares, 3,682 A ordinary shares and 1,498,868 D2 ordinary 
shares. All these options were exercised prior to the IPO.
On 29 April 2014, 1,498,868 options were granted over D2 
ordinary shares of Lakehouse Holdings Limited as replacement 
options for options over the shares in Everwarm Limited, held by 
Everwarm employees. These replacement options were granted 
to Everwarm employees on a like for like basis with reference to 
nominal value.
The fair value of the options over D2 ordinary shares granted on 
29 April 2014 was £1,350,341. Of this amount, £784,677 was 
deemed to be part of the consideration paid for the acquisition in 
relation to past services provided by the employees. £565,664 
was determined to relate to future post-acquisition services to be 
provided by the employees.
The significant inputs into the model for the options granted 
during the year ended 30 September 2014 were the exercise 
price shown above, future volatility of 25%, dividend yield of 0%, 
expected option life of 1.0 years and annual risk-free interest rate 
of 3%. Future volatility has been estimated based on comparable 
information from a group of listed peers rather than historical data. 
29. Reserves
Share premium reserve
The share premium account represents amounts received in 
excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares,  
net of the direct costs associated with issuing those shares.  
Issue costs in relation to the issue of shares on IPO of £1,315,000  
have been charged to the share premium account. 
Merger reserve
On 23 March 2015 Lakehouse plc was listed on the Premium 
Listing segment of the Official List and trading on the Main  
Market of the London Stock Exchange. As part of a restructuring 
accompanying the Initial Public Offering (‘IPO’) of the Group  
on 23 March 2015, Lakehouse plc replaced Lakehouse Holdings 
Limited as the Group’s ultimate parent Company by way of  
a Share exchange agreement. Under IFRS 3 this has been 
accounted for as a Group reconstruction under merger 
accounting. These consolidated financial statements have  
been prepared as a continuation of the existing Group. 
Merger accounting principles for this combination have given  
rise to a merger reserve of £20,067,000.
Own shares reserve 
At IPO, each employee was given £200 of free shares, to be  
held for their benefit in an Employee Benefit Trust. Shares totalling 
325,842 were transferred directly to the Employee Benefit Trust 
on 23 March 2015. The own shares reserve at 30 September 
2015 represents the cost of 325,842 (2014: £nil) shares in 
Lakehouse plc, with a weighted average of 169,187 (2014: £nil) 
shares during the year.
30. Guarantees and contingent liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiaries have, in the normal course 
of business, given guarantees and performance bonds relating to 
the Group’s contracts totalling £11,265,498 (2014: £11,327,000). 
A subsidiary of the Group has provided a guarantee of £750,000 
(2014: £nil) to the Warmworks joint venture. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 104
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
31. Financial instruments
Financial instruments comprise both financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The carrying value of these financial assets and 
liabilities are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The principal financial assets in the Group comprise trade,  
loans and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and 
investments in subsidiaries. The principal financial liabilities in the 
Group comprise borrowings which are categorised as debt at 
amortised cost, together with trade and other payables, other long 
term liabilities and provisions for liabilities, which are classified  
as other financial liabilities.
Financial risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing finance and capital are  
to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern  
in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits to other 
stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital. The Group is not subject to any 
externally imposed capital requirements.
The main financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity risk, 
credit risk and market risk (which includes interest rate risk). 
Currently, the Group only operates in the UK and only transacts  
in Sterling. It is therefore not exposed to any foreign currency 
exchange risk. The Board regularly reviews and agrees policies 
for managing each of these risks.
Categories of financial instruments
Loans and receivables
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial assets
Current financial assets
Trade receivables, loans and  
other receivables 75,527  74,009 
Cash and cash equivalents 6,934  4,230 
Income tax receivable 1,683  – 
Financial assets held at fair value  
through profit and loss
Interest rate cap agreement 42  33 
 84,186  78,272 
Financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial liabilities
Current financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 76,617  71,304 
Income tax payable – 445 
Borrowings – 3,333 
Finance lease obligations 403  165 
Total current financial liabilities 77,020  75,247 
Non-current financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 5,013  4,854 
Borrowings – 8,334 
Finance lease obligations 340  66 
Total non-current financial liabilities 5,353  13,254 
 82,373  88,501 
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial 
assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the 
financial statements approximate their fair values.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on  
its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy 
counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where 
appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss  
from defaults. The Group does not enter into derivatives to 
manage its credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is 
represented by the carrying value of the financial assets in the 
statement of financial position. The Group does not have any 
significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any 
group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
There has been a minimal history of bad debts as the majority  
of its sales are to local government councils or housing trust 
partnerships and as a consequence the Directors do not  
consider that the Group has a material exposure to credit risk. 
Market risk
As the Group only operates in the UK and only transacts in 
Sterling, the Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial 
risks of changes in interest rates only.
Liquidity risk
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with  
the Board, which has established an appropriate liquidity risk 
management framework for the management of the Group’s  
short, medium and long term funding and liquidity management 
requirements. The Group’s policy on liquidity is to ensure that 
there are sufficient committed borrowing facilities to meet the 
Group’s medium to long term funding requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate 
reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by 
continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and by 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
A maturity analysis of bank borrowings at each period end  
is contained in Note 22.
(a) Interest rate of borrowings
The interest rate exposure of the Group’s borrowings is  
shown below:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Floating rate Sterling borrowings with 
uncapped interest rate – –
Floating rate Sterling borrowings with  
a capped interest rate – 11,667  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
105
At 30 September 2015, the Group had the following interest  
rate caps in place:
 — A cap of 2.50% on up to £6.7m of debt (2014: £nil), rising  
by £0.8m per quarter up to £12.5m on 30 June 2017, then to 
£15m on 29 December 2017 and expiring on 9 December 
2018 
 — A cap of 2.00% on up to £8.3m of debt (2014: £11.7m), 
falling at a rate of £0.8m per quarter and expiring on 
18 October 2017 
(b) Interest rate risk
Due to the floating rate of interest on the Group’s principal 
borrowings, the Group is exposed to interest rate risk, which is 
partially mitigated by financial instruments in place to cap the 
interest exposure.
(c) Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Group’s principal borrowings attract floating rate interest.  
The Group’s borrowings stood at zero at year end, so a movement 
in interest rates would have had no impact. On a weighted 
average of £8.9m of debt in the year, a half per cent increase  
in the floating interest rate would have been below the interest 
rate cap and increased annual interest payable by £44,000 
(2014: £61,000). If the floating interest rate had increased to the 
capped rate, interest payable on the weighted average of £8.9m 
of debt would have increased by £136,000 (2014: £194,000). 
32. Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2015 2014
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
 items
£’000
Land and 
buildings
£’000
Other 
 items
£’000
Within one year 913  1,246  705  602 
Between two  
and five years 2,157  1,338  2,350  670 
Over five years 224 – 1,603 –
 3,294  2,584  4,658  1,272 
At 30 September 2015 the Company has no operating lease 
commitments (2014: £nil).
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the  
Group for its properties and equipment. For property, leases are 
negotiated for an average term of five years and rentals are fixed 
for an average of five years, with an option to extend for a further 
period at the then prevailing market rate. For equipment, leases 
are negotiated for a term of between three and four years and  
on completion the equipment is returned to the lessor.
33. Cash generated from operations
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Operating profit 4,579 1,303
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 1,017 672
Amortisation of intangible assets 6,841 5,334
Equity-settled share-based payments 846 86
Profit on disposal of property,  
plant and equipment (98) (87)
Loss on disposal of subsidiary business – 69
Changes in working capital:
Inventories 2,166  (1,142)
Amounts owed by customers under 
construction contracts 1,194  (558)
Amounts owed to customers under 
construction contracts (1,736) 1,256
Trade and other receivables 1,692 (3,784)
Trade and other payables 3,635 5,672
Provisions (1,037) 6,518
Cash generated from operations 19,099 15,339
Underlying operating cash  
conversion calculation
Cash generated from operations 19,099 15,339
Exceptional costs paid in the period 6,540 120
Underlying cash generated from operations 25,639 15,459
Operating profit before exceptional  
and other items 22,224 10,809
Underlying operating cash conversion % 115% 143%
Underlying operating cash conversion is operating cash flow, plus 
the cash impact of exceptional and other items (discussed further 
in note 7), as a percentage of underlying EBITA. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 106
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
34. Business combinations 
2015 acquisitions
H2O Nationwide Limited
On 3 October 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of H2O Nationwide Limited for consideration as detailed below.  
H2O Nationwide Limited’s principal activity is that of air and water compliance. The effect of the acquisition on the Group’s assets  
and liabilities were as follows:
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value
£’000
Assets
Non-current
Property, plant and equipment 8 – 8 
Current
Inventories 21 – 21 
Trade and other receivables 719  (15) 704 
Cash and cash equivalents 2,343 – 2,343 
Total assets 3,091  (15) 3,076 
Liabilities 
Current 
Trade and other payables (620) (2) (622)
Total liabilities (620) (2) (622)
Net assets acquired 2,471  (17) 2,454 
Intangibles acquired 3,107 
Deferred tax recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (621)
Goodwill capitalised 2,209 
 7,149 
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 4,891 
Non-contingent Deferred consideration 1,331 
Contingent Deferred consideration 927 
 7,149 
Contingent deferred consideration is payable in November 2018 and has been calculated based on the expectations of future 
performance in the Group’s three year plan compared to the calculation methodology set out in the Share Purchase Agreement, 
discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 8.5%. Non contingent consideration is based on fixed deferred sums payable on the  
first, second and third anniversaries of completion of the transaction.
The H2O Nationwide Limited intangible assets are recognised and valued at £3.1m. This represents the expected value to be derived 
from the acquired customer-related contracts, acquired customer relationships and the value placed on the non-compete agreement. 
The value placed on these customer-related contracts and relationships is based on the expected post-tax cash inflows over the 
estimated remaining life of each contract. The cash flows are initially reduced by 10% after year 1 with further deductions thereafter 
which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns from the customer relationships, and 
then discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 13%. The estimated life for customer contracts is assumed to be the remaining life  
of each contract, and the customer relationships are estimated to have a life of five years. 
The Directors consider the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired, expected synergies to be generated,  
and access to adjacent business activities as a result of this acquisition. It is not expected that any goodwill will be deductible for  
tax purposes. All costs of the acquisition have been recognised as an exceptional expense in the Statement of Comprehensive  
Income in the period in which it was incurred, the total cost recognised is £227,000. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
107
Post-acquisition results
The results for H2O Nationwide Limited since the acquisition date, included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income for the period ended 30 September 2015, are:
£’000
Revenue 3,898 
Profit from operations 1,052 
Interest 60 
Profit before tax 1,112 
Taxation (228)
Profit for the period 884 
Providor Limited
On 5 May 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Providor Limited for consideration as detailed below. Providor Limited’s 
principal activity is the installation of utility meter for domestic and industrial and commercial premises. The effect of the acquisition on 
the Group’s assets and liabilities were as follows:
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional
fair value*
£’000
Assets
Non-current
Property, plant and equipment 443 – 443 
Current
Inventories 187 – 187 
Trade and other receivables 1,737  (253) 1,484 
Cash and cash equivalents 1,147 – 1,147 
Total assets 3,514  (253) 3,261 
Liabilities
Non-current
Deferred tax liability (43) – (43)
Provisions – (604) (604)
Current
Trade and other payables (1,789) 85  (1,704)
Amounts due under finance leases (266) – (266)
Total liabilities (2,098) (519) (2,617)
Net assets acquired 1,416  (772) 644 
Intangibles acquired 4,688 
Deferred tax recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (937)
Goodwill capitalised 2,591 
 6,986 
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 5,643 
Contingent Deferred consideration 1,343 
 6,986 
*  Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Group’s year-end, in accordance with IFRS 3, the initial accounting outlined above is deemed to be provisional pending 
finalisation of the fair value exercise.
The fair value adjustments relate to recoverability of debtors, lease dilapidations and potential legal claims.
Contingent deferred consideration is payable in August 2016 and has been calculated based on the expectations of future 
performance in the Group’s three year plan compared to the calculation methodology set out in the Share Purchase Agreement, 
discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 8.5%. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 108
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
34. Business combinations (continued)
The Providor Limited intangible assets are recognised and valued at £4.7m. This represents the expected value to be derived from the 
acquired customer-related contracts and the acquired customer relationships. The value placed on these customer-related contracts and 
relationships is based on the expected post-tax cash inflows over the estimated remaining life of each contract. The cash flows are initially 
reduced by 10% after year 1 with further deductions thereafter which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with 
capturing returns from the customer relationships, and then discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 13%. The estimated life for customer 
contracts is assumed to be the remaining life of each contract, and the customer relationships are estimated to have a life of five years. 
The Directors consider the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired, expected synergies to be generated, and 
access to additional customers and markets as a result of this acquisition. It is not expected that any goodwill will be deductible for tax 
purposes. All costs of the acquisition have been recognised as an exceptional expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in  
the period in which it was incurred, the total cost recognised is £270,000.
Post-acquisition results
The results for Providor Limited since the acquisition date, included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for  
the period ended 30 September 2015, are:
£’000
Revenue 5,234 
Profit from operations 139 
Interest (11) 
Profit before tax 128 
Taxation (31)
Profit for the period 97 
Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited
On 10 July 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited for consideration as detailed below. 
Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited’s principal activity is that of energy procurement and advisory activities. The effect of the acquisition  
on the Group’s assets and liabilities were as follows:
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional
fair value*
£’000
Assets
Non-current
Property, plant and equipment 100  –  100 
Current
Trade and other receivables 1,063  125  1,188 
Cash and cash equivalents 3,001  –  3,001 
Total assets 4,164  125  4,289 
Liabilities
Non-current
Deferred tax liability (17) –  (17)
Provisions –  (135) (135)
Current
Trade and other payables (1,684) (251) (1,935)
Total liabilities (1,701) (386) (2,087)
Net assets acquired 2,463  (261) 2,202 
Intangibles acquired 4,004 
Deferred tax recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (801)
Goodwill capitalised 5,005 
 10,410 
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 8,882 
Contingent Deferred consideration 1,528 
 10,410 
*  Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Group’s year-end, in accordance with IFRS 3, the initial accounting outlined above is deemed to be provisional pending 
finalisation of the fair value exercise. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
109
Contingent deferred consideration is payable in December 2017 and has been calculated based on the expectations of future 
performance in the Group’s three year plan compared to the calculation methodology set out in the Share Purchase Agreement, 
discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 8.5%.
The Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited intangible assets are recognised and valued at £4.0m. This represents the expected value to be 
derived from the acquired customer-related contracts and a non-compete agreement. The value placed on these customer-related 
contracts is based on the expected post-tax cash inflows over the estimated remaining life of each contract. The cash flows are initially 
reduced by 5% after year 1 with further deductions thereafter which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated 
with capturing returns from the customer contracts, and then discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 13%. The value placed  
on the non-compete agreement is based on the difference between cash flows with the non-compete agreement in place and those 
expected to occur if it were not in place, discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 13%. The estimated life for customer contracts  
is assumed to be the remaining life of each contract, and the non-compete is estimated to have a life of five years.
The Directors consider the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired, expected synergies to be generated, and 
access to additional customers and markets as a result of this acquisition. It is not expected that any goodwill will be deductible for tax 
purposes. All costs of the acquisition have been recognised as an exceptional expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in 
the period in which it was incurred. The total cost recognised is £147,000.
Post-acquisition results
The results for Orchard (Holdings) UK Limited since the acquisition date, included within the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the period ended 30 September 2015, are:
£’000
Revenue 1,172 
Profit from operations 145 
Interest –
Profit before tax 145 
Taxation (32)
Profit for the period 113  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 110
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
34. Business combinations (continued)
Sure Maintenance Group Limited
On 11 September 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Sure Maintenance Group Limited for consideration as detailed 
below. Sure Maintenance Group Limited’s principal activity is that of installation, service and maintenance of domestic gas heating 
systems for registered social landlords – local authorities and housing associations. The transaction has been accounted for by the 
acquisition method of accounting. The effect of the acquisition on the Group’s assets and liabilities were as follows:
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional
fair value*
£’000
Assets
Non-current
Property, plant and equipment 751  –  751 
Deferred tax 16 – 16 
Current
WIP 1,644  (79) 1,565 
Trade and other receivables 2,141  –  2,141 
Cash and cash equivalents 388  –  388 
Total assets 4,940  (79) 4,861 
Liabilities 
Non-current
Provisions –  (79) (79)
Current
Trade and other payables (3,816) 13  (3,803)
Amounts due under finance leases (483) –  (483)
Total liabilities (4,299) (66) (4,365)
Net assets acquired 641  (145) 496 
Intangibles acquired 4,017 
Deferred tax recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (804)
Goodwill capitalised 4,074 
 7,783 
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 7,275 
Contingent Deferred consideration 508 
 7,783 
*  Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Group’s year-end, in accordance with IFRS 3, the initial accounting outlined above is deemed to be provisional pending 
finalisation of the fair value exercise.
Contingent deferred consideration is payable in March 2017 and has been calculated based on the expectations of future performance 
in the Group’s three year plan compared to the calculation methodology set out in the Share Purchase Agreement, discounted using  
a post-tax discount rate of 8.5%.
Sure Maintenance Group Limited intangible assets are recognised and valued at £4.0m. This represents the expected value to be 
derived from the acquired customer-related contracts and the acquired customer relationships. The value placed on these customer-
related contracts and relationships is based on the expected cash inflows over the estimated remaining life of each contract. The cash 
flows are initially reduced by 10% after year 1 which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing 
returns from the customer relationships, and then discounted for the cost of money using a pre-tax discount rate of 13%. The 
estimated life for customer contracts is assumed to be the remaining life of each contract, and the customer relationships are 
estimated to have a life of five years. 
The Directors consider the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired, expected synergies to be generated, and 
access to additional geographical areas in the UK as a result of this acquisition. It is not expected that any goodwill will be deductible 
for tax purposes. All costs of the acquisition have been recognised as an exceptional expense in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income in the period in which it was incurred, the total cost recognised is £159,000. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
111
Post-acquisition results
The results for Sure Maintenance Group Limited since the acquisition date, included within the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the period ended 30 September 2015, are:
£’000
Revenue 1,969 
Profit from operations 53 
Interest (5)
Profit before tax 48 
Taxation (9)
Profit for the period 39 
Results of all business combinations occurring during the year
Assuming the acquisition date for all business combinations that occurred during the year had been 1 October 2014, the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for Lakehouse plc for the year ended 30 September 2015, would have been:
£’000
Revenue 372,860 
Profit from operations 7,115 
Interest (1,578)
Profit before tax 5,537 
Taxation (1,368)
Profit for the period 4,169 
35. Summary of consideration paid and payable in respect of acquisitions
Allied 
Protection 
Limited
£’000
Foster 
Property 
Maintenance 
Limited
£’000
Everwarm 
Limited
£’000
H2O 
Nationwide 
Limited
£’000
Providor 
Limited
£’000
Orchard 
(Holdings) 
UK Limited
£’000
Sure 
Maintenance 
Limited
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 October 2013 3,696 – – – – – – 3,696 
Total discounted consideration payable 
for additions in the year ended 
30 September 2014 – 37,189  44,294  –  –  –  –  81,483 
Unwinding of discount 78  402 – – – – – 480 
Equity issued in the year – – (32,257) – – – – (32,257)
Paid in year (290) (27,965) (12,037) – – – – (40,292)
At 30 September 2014 3,484  9,626  –  –  –  –  –  13,110 
Total discounted consideration payable 
for additions in the year ended 
30 September 2015 – – – 7,149  6,986  10,410  7,783  32,328 
Unwinding of discount 73  114 – 126  53  34  3  403 
Paid in year (290) (9,740) – (4,891) (5,542) (8,882) (7,275) (36,620)
At 30 September 2015 3,267  –  –  2,384  1,497  1,562  511  9,221 
The fair value of the consideration has been assessed in accordance with the Sale & Purchase Agreements. The non-current element 
of the expected settlement has been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the time value of money.
The total deferred consideration may vary between £2.0m and £14.4m, depending on the underlying trading performance of the 
businesses acquired. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 112
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2015
continued
36. Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its 
subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated  
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Trading transactions
Mr S Rawlings, Mr P King and Mr P Broider are shareholders  
and Directors of La Maison Du Lac Limited. Lakehouse Contracts 
Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lakehouse Holdings 
Limited, incurs rent charges on a property owned by La Maison 
Du Lac Limited at an annual rate of £112,880 (2014: £112,880).
As at 30 September 2015 La Maison Du Lac Limited had a loan 
owed to Lakehouse Contracts Limited amounting to £381,143 
(2014: £499,066). The loan is unsecured and interest free and 
repayable within one year.
Mr S Rawlings is a Director of Building Lives Training Academy 
Limited (‘Building Lives’), a community interest company. At 
30 September 2015 Building Lives owed the Group £46,636 
(2014: £490,304) for services provided which is repayable on 
normal commercial terms. The total value of services provided by 
the Group to Building Lives was £775,832 (2014: £693,903).
The Company’s subsidiary, Everwarm Limited, leases premises  
in Bathgate, West Lothian, from Xafinity Pension Trustees  
Limited (as corporate trustee of the Everwarm Group SIPP). 
Mr M McMahon, a Director of the Company, is a beneficiary of  
the Everwarm Group SIPP. The lease was set up on an arm’s 
length basis with annual rentals determined based on an 
independent rental valuation. £75,000 of rents were paid by  
the Group in 2015 (2014: £34,375). The lease terminates in  
nine years.
The Non-Executive Director of Lakehouse plc and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, Johnathan Ford, is an Executive Director  
of Homeserve plc. The Company’s subsidiary undertaking, Sure 
Maintenance Group Limited, provided services to Homeserve plc 
in the period from 11 September 2015 to 30 September 2015 
valued at £85,332.
The Company’s subsidiary, Everwarm Limited, provides services 
to Warmworks, a joint venture of Everwarm. £124,000 of services 
were provided in 2015 (2014: £nil), all of which was outstanding 
at 30 September 2015. 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the Directors and members of the Board, 
together with other key management personnel of the Group, is 
set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in 
IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures. The key management personnel 
are the members of the Group’s Executive Management Team. 
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors 
is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
2015
Number
2014
Number
Number of members of the Group 
Management Board at each year end 13 17
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Short term employee benefits 2,591 1,908
Post-employment benefits 202 154
Fees payable 135 198
Termination benefits – 29
Share-based payments 348 51
3,276 2,340
Directors’ transactions 
The following amounts were owed to the Company by Directors  
and other key management personnel in respect of unpaid share 
premium relating to the share capital of Lakehouse Holdings Limited:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Mr S Black – 92
Mr S Rawlings – 11
Other key management personnel – 239
– 342
Key management personnel transactions
A member of the key management personnel is a member of the 
partnership that owns a property that is leased to the Group.  
The lease was set up on an arm’s length basis with annual rentals 
determined based on an independent rental valuation. £18,000  
of rents were paid by the Group in 2015 (2014: £18,000). The 
lease terminates in seven years with a two year break clause. 
A member of the key management personnel is a Director and 
shareholder of the Company that owns property that is leased  
to the Group. The leases were set up on an arm’s length basis 
with annual rentals determined based on an independent rental 
valuation. £70,390 of rents were paid by the Group in 2015 
(2014: £81,295). The leases terminate in eight years. 
A member of the key management personnel is a Director  
and 50% shareholder of Foster Renewable Energies Limited,  
a company which provides subcontractor services to Foster 
Property Maintenance, a subsidiary company. The contracts 
pursuant to which such services were set up on an arm’s length 
basis, including prices set within prevailing market parameters. 
£1,549,357 was paid to Foster Renewable Energies Limited by 
the Group in 2015 (2014: £3,842,953). £23,395 was payable  
to Foster Renewable Energies Limited by the Group at 
30 September 2015 (2014: £19,633). There is no contractual 
commitment to use Foster Renewable Energies Limited. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
113
37. Events after the reporting date
On 2 November 2015, the Group announced the acquisition of 
the entire share capital of Aaron Heating Services Ltd (‘Aaron’) 
for an initial cash consideration of £6.7m and further deferred 
contingent consideration of up to a maximum of £3.3m, which is 
dependent on Aaron’s financial performance in the period up to 
30 September 2017. The price reflects the acquisition of Aaron 
on a cash and debt free basis. Aaron is a heating services and 
installations company, providing services primarily for Housing 
Associations and Local Authorities in East Anglia and the 
surrounding region and compliments the Group’s other gas 
compliance businesses. The calculation of Aaron’s net assets will 
be agreed not less than 60 business days following completion of 
the acquisition and as such, it is not possible currently to provide 
a split of acquisition consideration between net assets acquired, 
intangible assets and goodwill. A fair value exercise will be 
conducted on all balance sheet items once the Net Assets have 
been agreed. In the financial year ended 31 March 2015, Aaron 
reported a turnover of £26.3m and profit before tax of £0.9m. 
Aaron had gross assets of £10.5m as at 31 March 2015. 
On 4 December 2015, the Group extended the terms of its 
Revolving Credit facility from £30m to £45m. All other terms 
were unchanged.
On 9 December 2015, the Group announced the acquisition of the 
entire share capital of Precision Lift Services Limited (‘Precision’) 
for an initial cash consideration of £5.5m and further deferred 
contingent consideration of up to a maximum of £3.0m, which  
is dependent on Precision’s financial performance in the period 
up to 30 September 2018. The price reflects the acquisition of 
Precision on a cash and debt free basis. Precision is a lift 
installation and servicing company, providing services primarily  
for Housing Associations and Local Authorities in London and the 
South East and provides a complimentary activity to the Group’s 
other compliance businesses. The calculation of Precision’s net 
assets will be agreed not less than 60 business days following 
completion of the acquisition and as such, it is not possible 
currently to provide a split of acquisition consideration between 
net assets acquired, intangible assets and goodwill. A fair value 
exercise will be conducted on all balance sheet items once the 
Net Assets have been agreed. In the financial year ended 
31 August 2014, Precision reported a turnover of £11.6m  
and profit before tax of £0.5m. Precision had gross assets  
of £3.3m as at 31 August 2014.  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 114
Company balance sheet
At 30 September 2015
Notes
2015
£’000
Fixed assets
Interests in subsidiaries 40 12,392 
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 41 41 
Debtors – due after more than one year 41 40,592 
Income tax receivable 421 
Cash at bank and in hand –
 41,054 
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 42 1,102 
Bank loans and overdrafts 4,367 
 5,469 
Net current assets 35,585 
Total assets less current liabilities 47,977 
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade creditors 42 2,004 
Provisions for liabilities 43 200 
Net assets 45,773 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 44 15,753 
Share premium account 45 25,314 
Own shares (290)
Share-based payment reserve 46 549 
Profit and loss account 4,447 
Shareholders’ funds 45,773 
The financial statements of Lakehouse plc (registered number 09411297) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on 9 December 2015. They were signed on its behalf by:
J J C Simpson
Director
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Company balance sheet.  Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
115
Company statement  
of changes in equity
For the period from 28 January 2015  
to 30 September 2015
Share  
capital
£’000
Share
premium
account
£’000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£’000
Own  
shares
£’000
Profit  
and loss  
account
£’000
Total equity
£’000
Profit for the period –  –  –  –  4,447  4,447 
Issue of share capital 15,753  25,314  –  –  –  41,067 
Share-based payment charge –  –  549  –  –  549 
Purchase of own shares –  –  –  (290) –  (290)
At 30 September 2015 15,753 25,314 549 (290) 4,447 45,773 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 116
Company only
The following Notes 38 to 46 relate to the Company only 
position for year ended 30 September 2015.
38. Accounting policies
Statement of compliance and basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented 
as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets  
the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial 
Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council. Accordingly, in the period from incorporation to 
30 September 2015 the Company has decided to prepare its first 
set of financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 (electing 
to early adopt) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
Accordingly the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101) 
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage  
of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in 
relation to share-based payment, financial instruments, capital 
management, presentation of a cash flow statement and certain 
related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the 
consolidated financial statements.
Lakehouse plc was incorporated on 28 January 2015 in 
anticipation of the IPO of the Group.
On 17 March 2015 Lakehouse plc acquired 100% of the  
ordinary share capital of Lakehouse Holdings Limited through  
a share for share exchange.
As part of a restructuring accompanying the Initial Public Offering 
(‘IPO’) of the Group on 23 March 2015, Lakehouse plc replaced 
Lakehouse Holdings Limited as the Group’s ultimate parent 
Company by way of a Share exchange agreement. On 23 March 
2015 Lakehouse plc was listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
As a consolidated statement of comprehensive income is 
published, a separate statement of comprehensive income for the 
parent Company is omitted by virtue of the exemption available in 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company’s profit 
for the period was £4,447,000.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical 
cost basis. The principle accounting policies adopted are the 
same as those set out in Note 2 to the consolidated financial 
statements except as noted below.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less  
any provision for impairment. 
Cost is defined as the consideration transferred and is  
measured at fair value. Fair value is calculated as the sum of the 
acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the Company, 
liabilities incurred by the Company to the former owners of the 
acquired company and the equity interest issued by the Company 
in exchange for control of the acquired company. Acquisition-
related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. 
When the consideration transferred by the Company includes  
an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its 
acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration 
transferred. Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration 
are adjusted when identified with corresponding adjustments 
dependent upon on how the contingent consideration is classified. 
Where contingent consideration is classified as equity any 
change in fair value is accounted for within equity. Contingent 
consideration that is classified as an asset or liability is re-
measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with 
IAS 39: Financial instruments, or IAS 37: Provisions, contingent 
liabilities and contingent assets, as appropriate, with the 
corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of investments
At each balance sheet date, the Company tests the carrying 
amounts of investments to determine whether those investments 
have suffered an impairment loss. The recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss 
(if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that  
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation 
can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual 
cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the 
smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable 
and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than 
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried  
at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the  
asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried  
at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the  
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
39. Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of uncertainty
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Notes to the Company  
financial statements
For the period from 28 January 2015  
to 30 September 2015 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
117
Estimates and judgements are continually made and are based  
on historic experience and other factors, including expectations  
of future events that are believed to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. As the use of estimates is inherent in financial 
reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates. 
(i) Assessment of investment cost
The key judgements and estimates made in determining the fair 
value of the consideration transferred were: 
 — The valuation of equity and equity-based financial  
instruments issued by the Company as part of the 
consideration transferred
 — The appropriate discount factor to be applied to any future 
consideration to be paid
 — An estimation of future revenues and profit of the related 
businesses which determine the amount of the future 
consideration to be paid
 — Identification of and judgements around the uncertainties  
of the valuation model and its sensitivity to error in its  
key assumptions
(ii) Impairment of investments
The Company reviews the valuation of all its investments for 
impairment annually or if events and changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  
The recoverable amount is determined based on value-in-use 
calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation  
of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate  
in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.  
See Note 14 for further information.
40. Investment in subsidiaries
2015
£’000
Investment in subsidiaries
Additions – acquisitions 12,392 
Cost carried forward 12,392 
Analysis of net book value:
Original cost of acquisitions 12,392 
 12,392 
Further information is provided in Note 17.
41. Debtors
2015
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Other debtors 41
Amounts falling due more than one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 40,589 
Other debtors 3 
 40,592 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
receivables approximates to their fair value. There is no provision 
against amounts receivable and no amounts are past due or  
are impaired.
42. Creditors
2015
£’000
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 63 
Accruals and deferred income 951 
Social security and other taxes 73 
Other creditors 15 
 1,102 
Creditors: Amounts falling due more than one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2,004
43. Provisions for liabilities
Legal and 
other
£’000
Additional provision 200
At 30 September 2015 200
Further information is provided in Note 24.
44. Share capital
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Number £
Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 157,527,103  15,752,710
The Company was incorporated on 28 January 2015.
Details of the movements in share capital together with the key 
rights and preferences of the share capital are disclosed in 
Note 27.
45. Share premium account
The share premium account represents amounts received in 
excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares,  
net of the direct costs associated with issuing those shares.  
Issue costs in relation to the issue of shares on IPO of £1,315,000  
have been charged to the share premium account. 
46. Share-based payments
During the period ended 30 September 2015 the Company had 
five share-based payment arrangements, which are described  
in Note 28. Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 118
Company registration number
9411297
Directors
Stuart Black (Executive Chairman)
Sean Birrane (Chief Executive Officer)
Jeremy Simpson (Chief Financial Officer)
Michael McMahon (Executive Director)
Chris Geoghegan (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
Jill Ainscough (Non-Executive Director)
Johnathan Ford (Non-Executive Director)
Company Secretary
Simon Howell
Registered office
1 King George Close
Romford
Essex RM7 7LS
Independent auditors
Deloitte LLP
City House
126-130 Hills Road
Cambridge CB2 1RY
Principal bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland
280 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4RB
Legal advisers to the Company
Eversheds LLP
1 Wood Street
London EC2V 7WS
Financial adviser and stockbroker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Corporate calendar
Annual General Meeting
5 February 2016
Announcement of Interim Results
May 2016
Announcement of Final Results
December 2016
Corporate directory Design and production: Gather
Printed by: CPI Colour
The paper used in this Report is  
derived from sustainable sources Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Lakehouse plc
1 King George Close
Romford
Essex
RM7 7LS
Tel: 01708 758 800 
www.lakehouse.co.uk
