 Low & Bonar PLC Annual Report 2015
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Welcome to 
Low & Bonar
We are an international business to 
business performance materials 
group. We design and manufacture 
components which add value to, 
and improve the performance of, 
our customers’ products by 
engineering a wide range of 
polymers using our own 
technologies to create yarns, fibres, 
industrial and coated fabrics and 
composite materials.
We sell globally and manufacture  
in Europe, North America, the 
Middle East and China.
VISIT US ONLINE 
Our website contains a full  
investor relations section with 
news, reports, webcasts,  
financial calendar and share  
price information.
Visit www.lowandbonar.com  
and click on Investor centre.
Strategic Report
1 Highlights
2 At a Glance
4 Business Model
6 Our Strategy
8 Strategy in Action
16 Chairman’s Statement
18 Chief Executive’s Review
22 Business Review
36 Principal Risks & Uncertainties
40 Risk Oversight
42 Corporate & Social 
Responsibility
Governance
52 Board of Directors
54 Corporate Governance
57 Audit Committee Report
60 Nomination Committee Report
61 Directors’ Remuneration Report
76 Directors’ Report
79 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
Financial Statements
80 Independent Auditor’s Report
82 Consolidated Income Statement
83 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
84 Balance Sheets
85 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
86 Company Cash Flow Statement
87 Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity
88 Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity
89 Significant Accounting 
Policies
95 Notes to the Accounts
125 Five Year History
126 Advisers and Financial 
Calendar Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
£26.6M  +5.6%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(1)
£26.6M  +12.2%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(1)
  
CONSTANT CURRENCY
(2)
2015 26.62015 26.6
2014 25.2 2014 23.7
2013 25.3 2013 22.3
Highlights
GOOD PROGRESS AGAINST A 
CHALLENGING MARKET BACKDROP 
Revenue of £395.8m (2014: £410.6m), up 2.4% on a 
constant currency
(2)
 basis
Profit before tax
(1)
 of £26.6m (2014: £25.2m),  
an increase of 12.2% at constant currency
(2)
Operating margin
(3)
 improved to 8.3% (2014: 7.7%),  
progress towards medium term objective of 10%+
FULL YEAR DIVIDEND INCREASED
Full year dividend increased 3% to 2.78 pence per 
share (2014: 2.70 pence)
CONTINUED INVESTMENT FOR 
GROWTH
Capital expenditure £33m (2014: £19m)
New facility in China started commercial production 
in December 2015, as planned
Return on capital
(4)
 increased to 12.0%, in line with 
medium term objective
GROUP-WIDE INITIATIVES BEGINNING 
TO SHOW RESULTS
Good progress made in all Global Business Units
Civil Engineering stabilised
Financial Operational
1 Before amortisation and non-recurring items
2 Constant currency is calculated by retranslating prior period results at current period exchange rates
3 Operating profit as a percentage of revenue
4 Operating profit as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
 Sales offices
  M a n u f a c t u r i ng 
facilities
At a glance
Leaders in  
our markets
Our new organisational structure 
enables us to better understand and 
respond to current and emerging 
customer needs.
Our five Global Business Units (GBUs) are each focused on 
specific sectors; this approach builds greater customer 
intimacy, improves our responsiveness to market, transforms 
opportunities and addresses market challenges with 
innovation, by embracing new solutions. 
Led by a Global Business Director, each has a focused 
strategy and five year plan with projected revenues and 
profitability. The GBUs collaborate in close partnership with 
Group Functions, which in turn bring value through specific 
expertise and knowledge; sharing best practices and 
supporting strategic decision-making.
OUR NEW GROUP  
STRUCTURE
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
USA  
Asheville, NC
UK  
Dundee
Belgium 
Zele and Lokeren
The Netherlands  
Arnhem and  
Emmen
Germany  
Obernburg,  
Hückelhoven  
and Fulda
Czech Republic  
Lomnice
Hungary  
Tiszaújváros
Slovakia  
Ivanka pri Nitre
Saudi Arabia  
Yanbu
UAE  
Abu Dhabi
China  
Yizheng and 
Changzhou Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Civil
Engineering
Interior
& TransportATION
Building
& Industrial
Coated Technical
Textiles
Woven and non-woven geotextiles and construction 
fibres used in major infrastructure projects, including 
road and rail building, land reclamation and coastal 
defence.
Technical fabrics used in transportation, interior 
carpeting, resilient tiles and decorative products.
A range of technical textile solutions for niche 
applications in the building, roofing, air and water 
filtration and agricultural markets.
A range of technical coated fabrics providing aesthetics 
and design, performance and protection in products 
such as tensioned architectural structures, awnings, 
marquees, advertising banners, tarpaulins and vehicle 
curtain sides to the transport, building products, print, 
leisure and industrial markets.
See page 28 See page 26
See page 30 See page 32
21.6%
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
15.6%
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
30.4%
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
22.7%
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
Sports &  
Leisure
Group  
Functions
A diverse and extensive range of yarns for synthetic 
turf for sports and landscape applications and backing 
yarns for a variety of carpet applications.
See page 34
FINANCE
HUMAN RESOURCES
OPERATIONS
SALES & MARKETING
SUPPLY CHAIN
9.7%
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
MANUFACTURING  
FACILITIES
 16
SALES OFFICES
 19
COUNTRIES
20
EMPLOYEES
2,235
RESEARCH, 
DEVELOPMENT & 
INNOVATION
LEGAL 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Business Model
competitive 
advantage
We seek to gain 
competitive advantage 
through superior 
technologies and 
innovation.
Our first priority is to understand and 
anticipate our customers’ needs, so we can 
apply our technical know-how to provide 
competitive solutions. 
Our manufacturing processes begin with 
the sourcing of widely-available polymers, 
including polypropylene, polyethylene, 
polyester and nylon, together with 
speciality additives and colours. Our 
proprietary technologies then produce a 
range of yarns, fabrics and coated and 
composite high performance materials, 
tailored to our customers’ requirements.
01
NEW PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT
 
Gaining competitive advantage 
through technologies and innovation.
02
CUSTOMER 
INSIGHT
 
Focusing on customers to understand 
and anticipate their needs.
LEADING POSITIONS IN 
NICHE INDUSTRIAL 
MARKETS 
EXCELLENCE  
IN INNOVATION 
STRONG  
CUSTOMER FOCUS 
We hold leading positions in attractive 
niche markets, sustained through our 
innovative design and component 
manufacture, and our ability to meet 
the evolving demands of our customers 
and markets.
We focus our innovation on delivering 
improved sustainability, increased 
functionality and greater efficiencies. Our 
development pipelines are populated with 
ideas and insight from our customers and 
markets. Our research and development 
teams focus on meeting our customers’ 
needs with engineered products for specific 
applications. We dedicate a controlled 
amount of focused resource to identify 
transformational growth opportunities in 
new and existing markets. 
Our businesses are aligned to the 
global market areas we serve ensuring 
we put customers at the centre of 
everything we do.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
03
APPLIED 
TECHNOLOGY 
Our proprietary polymer formulations 
are processed using our broad 
range of proprietary technologies, 
which can be adapted to enable the 
final product to deliver the desired 
performance characteristics. 
Our end products are speciality 
yarns, fabrics, coated and composite 
high performance materials. These 
components are important in 
determining the performance and 
efficiency of our customers’ final 
product or process.
CIVIL  
ENGINEERING
BUILDING  
& INDUSTRIAL
COATED TECHNICAL  
TEXTILES
SPORTS &  
LEISURE
INTERIOR  
& TRANSPORTATION
OPTIMISED  
ORGANISATIONAL 
STRUCTURE 
OPERATIONAL  
CAPABILITY AND 
EFFICIENCY 
The re-alignment of the Group’s 
organisational structure in 2015 is helping 
us to better defend and nurture existing 
business, and to pursue sustainable, 
profitable growth. It has enhanced 
customer and market intimacy, resulting 
in faster and improved execution of 
commercial opportunities.
We operate Group-wide capability 
and efficiency improvement 
programmes.
OUR CORE  
CAPABILITIES 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
38%
KPI
SALES OUTSIDE EUROPE %
TARGET 50%
2015 38%
2014 33%
2013 33%
13.7%
KPI
PERCENTAGE OF SALES MADE  
FROM PRODUCTS LAUNCHED  
IN THE LAST THREE YEARS
2015 13.7%
TARGET 16.0%
2014 16.0%
2013 15.7%
our strategy
01
ACCELERATING 
GROWTH 
We seek to accelerate our 
expansion through development 
of growth markets, increased 
customer intimacy and improved 
commercial execution.
02
EXCELLING IN 
INNOVATION 
Our leading position is sustained by 
innovative design and manufacture 
of components, meeting specific 
customer needs.
We will defend and nurture our 
existing business and pursue 
sustainable, profitable growth. We 
will strive to bring differentiated 
added value to our customers 
through high performance 
technologies, higher-margin 
products based on superior 
customer intimacy, and efficient 
commercial execution.
Four pillar 
strategy Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report
8.3%
12.0%
KPI
OPERATING MARGIN
(1)
 %
KPI
RETURN ON CAPITAL  
EMPLOYED
(2)
 %
2015 8.3%
2015 12.0%
TARGET 10.0%+
TARGET 12.0%+
2014 7.7%
2014 11.4%
2013 7.8%
2013 11.2%
03
DRIVING  
EFFICIENCIES AND 
BUILDING CAPABILITY 
We strive to ensure our product 
offering is underpinned by functional 
and operational excellence. 
04
COMPLEMENTARY 
ACQUISITIONS
Organic growth will be 
complemented with “bolt-on” 
acquisitions, improving our global 
reach and entering attractive adjacent 
markets.
PERFORMANCE
RISK MANAGEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
Our key performance indicators measure  
how we are achieving our goals.
We evolve to understand and mitigate the 
risks to achieving our strategic goals.
Each of our strategic pillars have objectives 
that support progress against strategy.
See page 36
See pages 8-15
(1) Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items as a 
percentage of revenue. 
(2) Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items as  
a percentage of net assets plus net debt. Previously based on  
operating capital excluding acquired goodwill and pension liabilities.  
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this change. 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
38%
SALES OUTSIDE EUROPE
2015 38%
TARGET 50%
2014 33%
2013 33%
strategy in action
Accelerating 
growth
We build strong relationships with 
our customers and markets so we 
can identify how to exploit 
technologies that provide added 
value through differentiation. 
We want to accelerate our expansion into markets with 
the opportunity to grow faster than the global average, 
such as China, North America, the Middle East and 
South America, where industrialisation, urbanisation 
and high infrastructure expenditure are driving growth. 
We also target global industries that are supported by 
strong, long-term growth trends.
We intend to accelerate our global expansion by focusing on large, fast-growing segments where 
we can demonstrate differentiated added value. We will deliver our growth strategies through 
focused market-oriented teams, dedicated to serving the best needs of our customers.
Progress 
Each GBU has a clearly articulated growth plan with clear targets, strategies and actions. A new 
Group Function structure has been established to support Group and GBU strategies and plans.  
All Group Functions have five year development plans to drive efficiency and improve capabilities,  
to support GBU growth plans.
OBJECTIVES
Establish ambitious five year growth plans for each GBU and for each Group Function, aligned to 
deliver overall Group ambition and strategy
Annual growth at least 3% higher than Eurozone GDP growth
50% of Group sales outside Europe
KEY PRIORITIES 
Civil Engineering 
Flooring products 
Niche building products 
GROWTH GEOGRAPHIES 
China 
North America 
South America 
Middle East 
DELIVERABLES 
Accelerated growth 
Global business 
Scale benefits  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
9
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
After receiving Board approval in March 2014, the set-
up of our Changzhou manufacturing facility and sales 
organisation in China progressed well throughout 2015. 
The construction of the manufacturing facility was carried 
out on time, on budget and with no lost-time injuries in 
over 600,000 hours worked. Commissioning and start-up 
were quicker than anticipated, as a result of our focus on 
training and education. 
We selected Toyo Engineering Corp. China as our 
engineering partner in an EPCM contract (engineering, 
procurement, construction, management). Toyo took 
care of building and infrastructure activities, while Low & 
Bonar’s technical experts project-managed the construction 
of the spinning and fleecing lines, based on proprietary 
technology. Local government, notably the Changzhou 
industrial District Authorities (CND), provided support. 
Our core facility management team was recruited in early 
2015. The team built up strength over the year, with 
Group Functions setting up organisational capability in 
IT, purchasing, logistics and finance. Prior to start-up, 
local operating and maintenance teams were trained for 
several months at our Arnhem and Emmen factories in the 
Netherlands. 
A great deal of effort went into guaranteeing safety 
during construction. At times, well over 200 different 
subcontractors were working on site. Thorough briefings, 
daily safety tours and stringent supervision were key 
elements in maintaining our safe working environment.
The project ran on schedule with fleecing production 
starting one month ahead of schedule and our spinning 
start-up, originally scheduled for Q2 2016, was brought 
forward to January 2016. Customer qualification tests with 
locally-made trial materials were carried out in November 
2015 in a combined project with our China sales and product 
management team, together with colleagues from Europe 
and the US sales teams, and a 100% approval rate was 
achieved. Commercial production started in December 2015.
EXPANSION 
IN CHINA 10
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
13.7%
PERCENTAGE OF SALES
MADE FROM PRODUCTS LAUNCHED 
IN THE LAST THREE YEARS
TARGET 16.0%
2015 13.7%
2014 16.0%
2013 15.7%
strategy in action  
continued
KEY PRIORITIES 
Strengthen the quality and 
size of product development 
pipelines, with truly 
differentiated added value and 
an emphasis on profitability
Establish a technology 
development roadmap for 
existing platforms
Identify “transformational” 
development projects and 
associated unique technologies
KEY AREAS 
Europe 
North America 
Emerging markets
Excelling in 
innovation
Our leading position in niche 
industrial markets is built on a 
highly responsive approach to 
customer needs and by leveraging 
our broad range of technologies. 
We work closely with our 
customers to create products that 
add real value to their business, by 
helping their manufacturing 
processes become more efficient, 
adding functionality to their 
products, or improving their 
environmental sustainability. 
Progress 
Our global business and technology development strategies determine the priority of our 
resources to drive our innovation portfolio. Marketing and R&D functions are responsible for 
leading innovation. Our GBU product development roadmaps are fully aligned with GBU 
strategies. The newest manufacturing plants in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Hungary and China 
feature the most up-to-date technology and know-how. Work has begun to establish a strong 
technology development roadmap.
OBJECTIVES
Establish product development roadmaps for each GBU for existing and/or new technology platforms
Prioritise innovation addressing sustainability, functionality or efficiency 
Increase proportion of patent-protected innovation Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
11
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
DELIVERABLES 
Higher value of development 
pipelines
Higher quality of development 
pipelines: differentiated and 
higher potential profitability
Secure market share and 
customer intimacy with key 
accounts and build brand 
reputation
The Pierre Soulages Museum, commissioned by 
the urban community of Grand Rodez, France, 
opened in May 2014. Built to exhibit the works 
of the famous painter, Pierre Soulages, it is also 
used for temporary exhibitions to showcase 
other contemporary artists.
Key to the museum is its location, near the 
cathedral, in the middle of a landscaped park. 
The museum consists of a succession of glass 
and steel cubes. It is integrated in the heart 
of the former site of the Foirail public garden, 
with children’s playground and pedestrian 
walkway designed by architect Emmanuel 
Nebout.
Effective landscaping was key to the project, 
and the community appointed BonarAgro in 
2013/2014 to develop effective ground cover. 
The area used Duracover, a biodegradable 
woven ground cover fabric of vegetable origin, 
made of 100% PLA (corn starch). It is water-
permeable and ensures effective weed control, 
with a useful life of more than three years.
Other Duracover ground cover benefits include 
its lightness (130g/m²), tensile strength and 
variable widths, ranging from 1m to 5m. Easy 
to apply, it is useful for hard-to-reach areas, 
such as slopes. In addition to limited shrinkage, 
Duracover does not ignite from a burning 
cigarette, so is ideal for use in public spaces.
LANDSCAPED AREAS OF 
THE PIERRE SOULAGES 
MUSEUM 12
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
KEY PRIORITIES 
Organisational capability and 
talent management
Technology and innovation 
leadership
Sales mix improvement
Targeted geographical 
expansion
KEY AREAS 
Health and safety 
Productivity 
Market insight 
Sales force effectiveness 
DELIVERABLES 
Leverage all expertise to build 
global business 
Underpin speciality offering 
with cost and efficiency 
leadership 
DRIVING 
EFFICIENCIES  
& BUILDING 
CAPABILITY
We strive to ensure our product 
offering is underpinned by 
differentiation, cost and efficiency 
leadership. 
We combine productivity 
improvements and working capital 
efficiency, invest in the Group’s 
organisational capability and 
leverage our expertise in 
manufacturing, procurement and 
health and safety, building the 
foundations of a global business. 
Progress 
Operating margins improved from 7.7% to 8.3%, progressing towards our medium term 
objective of 10%+. Our asset efficiency ratio, return on capital employed, increased to 
12.0%, in line with our medium term objective. Active management of our sales mix  
towards higher specification, higher margin products and segments will continue to  
drive improvements.
OBJECTIVES
Organisational capability, leadership and market / customer insight 
Operating margin of 10%+
Return on capital employed of 12%+
strategy in action  
continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
13
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
12.0%
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED
(2)
TARGET 12.0%+
2015 12.0%
2014 11.4%
2013 11.2%
8.3%
OPERATING MARGIN
(1)
TARGET 10.0%+
2015 8.3%
2014 7.7%
2013 7.8%
(1) Operating profit before amortisation and 
non-recurring items as a percentage of revenue. 
(2) Operating profit before amortisation and 
non-recurring items as a percentage of net assets 
plus net debt. Previously based on operating 
capital excluding acquired goodwill and pension 
liabilities. Prior year comparatives have been 
restated to reflect this change. 14
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Complementary 
acquisitions
We will complement our organic 
growth strategies with “bolt-on” 
acquisitions to accelerate our global 
progress, or to give us access to 
new products in existing markets 
and attractive adjacent markets. 
Bolt-on investments accelerating growth in 
under-developed markets 
• Creating business and technology platforms  
outside Europe. 
• Leveraging existing technology, products and 
expertise to exploit opportunities. 
Accelerating growth in target segments 
• Product and technology in-fills. 
• Improving innovation capability. 
We will augment our organic growth with acquisitions,  
which accelerate our global expansion, and support 
our strategies in existing markets.
Progress 
The Group continues to pursue opportunities in  
this area.
strategy in action  
continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
15
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015 16
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s 
Statement
I am very pleased to report that the Group 
has continued to progress, delivering a 
good performance against a challenging 
market backdrop.
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items from 
continuing operations increased by 5.6% to £26.6m (2014: £25.2m) 
and by 8.0% before accounting for losses in our Saudi Arabian joint 
venture. Operating margins improved from 7.7% to 8.3% during the 
year, benefiting from lower raw material costs during the first half of 
the year, improved sales mix in most of our businesses and strong 
demand in key segments. Overall demand for our products remained 
robust and reflects the diversity and strength of our niche market 
positions, products and service delivery. Sales on a constant currency 
basis increased by 2.4%.
The realignment in the Group’s operating structure during the year, 
into five Global Business Units, is being embedded and tangible 
benefits are already evident. The Group is now much better positioned 
to improve routes to market, customer intimacy and commercial 
execution, whilst leveraging efficiencies within group-wide support 
functions.
The Group has continued to invest in assets to support growth.  
Capital expenditure totalled £33.0m (2014: £19.0m) including  
£13.6m (2014: £5.3m) on the new factory build in Changzhou  
and £5.6m (2014: £0.9m) on a new non-woven geotextile factory  
in Tiszaújváros, Hungary.
Despite significant weakness of the Euro, our principal functional 
currency, the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on profits was 
broadly neutral with a higher proportion of US Dollar sales this year. 
Earnings per share before amortisation and non-recurring items (“EPS”) 
increased by 2.7% to 5.61 pence (2014: 5.46 pence). Statutory profit 
before tax from continuing operations was £12.4m (2014: £16.7m) after 
non-recurring charges of £10.1m (2014: £3.3m) and an amortisation 
charge of £4.1m (2014: £5.2m). Non-recurring charges during the year 
principally relate to the impairment of our investment in Bonar Natpet, 
our geotextile joint venture in Saudi Arabia, reflecting the significant 
downturn in market conditions within the region. Considerable 
management focus is being applied to the joint venture to minimise 
future loss and uncertainty. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
17
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
To reflect the strength of these results and the Board’s 
confidence in making further progress in the coming 
year, we are proposing an increased final dividend of 
1.80 pence per share (2014: 1.75 pence). Subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) on 31 March, the dividend will be paid on 14 
April 2016 to members registered as of 18 March 2016. 
The proposed full year dividend of 2.78 pence per  
share (2014: 2.70 pence) is covered 2.0 times (2014: 2.0 
times) by earnings before amortisation and non-
recurring items.
It is my pleasure, as always, to acknowledge the skills 
and dedication of employees throughout Low & Bonar 
who have worked hard to deliver further progress for 
the Group.
As we look to 2016, it is expected that market 
conditions in Europe will remain difficult; Middle East 
demand will continue to be subdued and possibly 
worsen; however, the marked economic slowdown in 
China is not expected to have a substantial impact on 
our sales growth in the local market. Despite these 
continuing economic headwinds, the Board is confident 
of achieving further progress. The Group is focused on 
improving its product portfolio, margins and  
geographic reach. 
Martin Flower
Chairman
2 February 2016 18
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
With a new organisation structure and 
executive team in place, Chief Executive 
Brett Simpson outlines the rationale and 
purpose behind the changes and how 
these will help deliver the Group’s strategy 
and harness potential across the Group.
Chief Executive’s 
Review
Q How does the new organisational structure fit in 
with our vision?
A 
Our new organisational structure has created a cohesive, global 
organisation with a clear structure that unites the businesses and 
puts our customers firmly at the centre of everything we do.
 Our vision is to drive exceptional value through our performance 
materials and technical expertise, contributing to a more 
sustainable world. We will do this by developing a global portfolio 
of performance materials businesses, by leveraging our existing 
capabilities and leadership expertise, and through a focus on our 
technology excellence. This is encapsulated in our strapline ‘Progress 
through Performance’ and underpinned by our new corporate 
brand values.
 The new structure reflects our vision and is the blueprint to 
guide our growth and development. It is led by the Executive 
Leadership Team (ELT), which is responsible for strategy, direction 
and performance. We are organised into five Global Business 
Units, covering the Building & Industrial, Civil Engineering, Coated 
Technical Textiles, Interior & Transportation and Sports & Leisure 
sectors. Each manages a strong portfolio of brands and is focused 
on developing customer intimacy and improving commercial 
execution. The GBUs are supported and enabled by strong 
Group-wide functions, focused on improving processes, increasing 
efficiency and raising standards in their areas of expertise. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Q How do our new brand values support  
our ambitions?
A 
Our values are a set of beliefs that will provide unity and focus, 
underpinning our new organisational structure. These Group-
wide values are the outcome of detailed consultations across the 
business. They are closely aligned to our strategy and will drive the 
culture and behaviours we need to deliver it.
 We believe we can…
• Be world class
• Empower and perform
• Embrace the new
• Collaborate to transform
Q How do we intend to deliver ‘Progress  
through Performance’?
A 
This encompasses not only our focus on delivering high 
performance materials that exceed our customers’ expectations 
but also on building a high performance organisation – investing in 
our global support functions to build best-in-class manufacturing 
and infrastructure and in our people to build a talented workforce. 
These are all intrinsically linked, and our new structure will ensure 
we harness the potential from across the Group to grow our 
revenues, profitability and earnings.
Q What does sustainability mean to Low & Bonar?
A 
We are focused on contributing to a more sustainable world by 
leading the development of smart performance materials. We are 
driven by the need to meet the challenges faced by our customers 
for more effective, durable products that save resources and 
improve performance by incorporating advances in technology to 
meet these challenges.
Brett Simpson
Group Chief Executive 
2 February 2016 2 0
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s Review  
continued
OVERVIEW OF EL T
Our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) is a unified leadership team 
committed to development and delivery of the Group strategy.  
It is a critical decision-making forum led by the Group Chief 
Executive and consisting of the Global Business Directors and  
our leaders in Finance, Operations, HR, Legal, Supply Chain and 
RD&I Group functions. 
01 
CLARK  
HALLADAY
Global Business Director, 
Building & Industrial
02 
GARETH  
KAMINSKI-COOK
Global Business Director, 
Interior & Transportation
03 
BRETT  
SIMPSON
Group Chief Executive
04 
MARC  
KRAUTH
Global Business Director, 
Coated Technical Textiles
05 
WAYNE  
CURRIE
Group Director 
of Operations
03 01 02 04 05 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2 1
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
The responsibilities of the ELT are stewardship of:
•  Group-wide strategy, direction and financial performance
• Customer intimacy and commercial execution
• Operational excellence
• Portfolio management
• Group-wide branding and brand values
• HR management
• Capital allocation
• Influencing external perceptions
• Corporate governance
06 
MIKE  
HOLT
Chief Financial Officer
07 
NEIL  
RYAN
Global Business Director,  
Civil Engineering
08 
FRANCIS  
BIRD
Group Director of  
Human Resources
09 
JAN 
VAN BOLDRIK
Global Business Director, 
Sports & Leisure
10 
MATTHEW  
JOY
Group General 
Counsel 
06 07 08 09 10 22
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
BUSINESS  
REVIEW
RESULTS OVERVIEW
2015 2014 Actual
Constant 
currency
(¹)
Revenue £395.8m £410.6m -3.6% +2.4%
Operating profit
(2)
£32.8m £31.7m +3.5% +9.7%
Operating margin
(3)
8.3% 7.7%
Profit before tax
(2)
£26.6m £25.2m +5.6% +12.2%
Profit before taxation (statutory)
(4)
£12.4m £16.7m
Basic EPS
(2)
5.61p 5.46p +2.7% 
Dividend per share 2.78p 2.70p +3.0%
Return on capital employed
(5)
12.0% 11.4%
(1)  Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at current period exchange rates.
(2)  Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
(3)  Operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
(4)  After amortisation and non-recurring items.
(5)  Operating profit as a percentage of net assets plus net debt.
The Group has continued to make progress this year. On a constant currency basis, sales 
increased by 2.4% to £395.8m and operating profits increased by 9.7% to £32.8m. Excluding 
the pass through of lower raw material polymer prices, which assisted the first half results, 
sales on a constant currency basis were 3.5% up on last year.
Sales and profits in Building & Industrial and Sports & Leisure grew strongly, aided by market 
share gains in Europe and strong demand in North American markets. As anticipated, sales 
remained subdued but stable during the first half for Civil Engineering, but were 4.6% ahead 
of last year’s second half. Interior & Transportation performed strongly, but sales growth was 
constrained by available capacity for most of the year pending the start-up of the new 
Colback site in Changzhou, China. Coated Technical Textiles delivered a good result despite 
some market challenges.
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items, excluding our share of joint venture 
results, increased by 14.1% to £28.4m. The Group’s joint venture in Saudi Arabia made a loss 
of £3.6m due to very low demand and surplus capacity in the region; the Group’s share of 
this loss was £1.8m. We believe that market conditions will remain depressed for quite some 
time; consequently we have engaged with our partner as to how best to resolve this situation. 
Including these losses, the Group’s profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items 
was £26.6m, an increase of 12.2% on a constant currency basis.
During the year, the Group’s organisation structure was changed. The structure is now based 
on five Global Business Units supported by Group Operations, Purchasing and other global 
functions. The change was made to improve alignment with key markets, customers and 
opportunities, and should facilitate further efficiency gains and enable better and faster 
commercial execution. The cost of making the change was £0.4m in total, which is included 
in non-recurring items. Benefits from the change are evident but work is ongoing, particularly 
within Operations and Planning.
The Group has continued to make investments to accelerate growth and increase capacity. 
Capital expenditure totalled £33.0m (2014: £19.0m), of which £23.0m (2014: £9.2m) related to 
additional capacity. The main areas of investment have been a new factory building in 
Changzhou, China (£13.6m during 2015, £5.3m last year with a further £6.5m to complete) and 
a new non-woven geotextile factory in Tiszaújváros, Hungary (£5.6m this year, £0.9m last year).
Return on capital employed was 12.0%, an improvement on last year (2014: 11.4% restated). In 
previous years, the calculation of return was based on operating capital employed excluding 
acquired goodwill and pension liabilities. For the current year, the calculation of return is based on 
net assets and net debt, the target for which is 12%. The prior year comparator has been restated 
to reflect this change. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2 3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Pre-tax profit
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items from 
continuing operations increased by 5.6% to £26.6m (2014: 
£25.2m). The impact of foreign exchange rate changes provided a 
drag on reported profits of £0.5m, the impact from a weaker euro 
largely offset by a higher proportion of US Dollar sales, principally 
within our Sports & Leisure business unit. Operating profits were 
3.5% higher than last year at £32.8m (2014: £31.7m). Operating 
margins improved to 8.3% from 7.7% last year, reflecting net 
pricing gains, operational leverage and efficiencies offsetting 
further investment in organisational capability. Statutory profit 
before tax was £12.4m (2014: £16.7m) after a net non-recurring 
charge of £10.1m (2014: £3.3m) and a £4.1m charge for 
amortisation (2014: £5.2m).
Non-recurring items
The Group’s continuing operations incurred £10.1m (2014: £3.3m) 
of non-recurring charges. 
The carrying value of the Group’s investment in, and funding of, its 
Saudi Arabian joint venture, Bonar Natpet, has been reviewed. The 
significant fall in oil prices together with the Saudi conflict with Yemen 
has led to a dramatic reduction in regional spend on infrastructure 
projects which is not expected to recover in the foreseeable future. As 
a result, there is considerable over-capacity in the region. This has 
reduced the projected value in use and the potential recoverable value 
of our shareholder loan. As a result, an impairment charge of £8.2m 
(2014: £nil) has been booked; £3.0m relating to the carrying cost of 
investment (£3.5m having previously been written off due to trading 
losses) and £5.2m to the loan receivable. 
Costs incurred in the construction and start-up of a new Colback 
manufacturing site in Changzhou, China, totalled £1.1m 
(2014: £0.2m).
Reorganisation and severance costs relating to the Group’s change 
in organisational structure totalled £0.4m (2014: £nil). The change 
into five Global Business Units has, in management’s view, 
improved the alignment to key markets, customers and 
opportunities, and should facilitate further efficiency gains and 
enable better commercial execution.
The Group also incurred £0.2m (2014: £nil) of costs relating to a 
medically-underwritten buy-in within its UK pension scheme; the 
buy-in was completed on 3 December 2015. A further £0.2m 
(2014: £0.3m) of non-recurring costs were incurred relating to  
data cleansing of the benefit scheme.
In 2014, £2.2m of restructuring and redundancy costs were incurred 
principally in relocating part of the artificial grass yarns business from 
Dundee to Abu Dhabi. A further £0.5m of costs were incurred on the 
site clean-up and environmental rectification work to bring the former 
Texiplast site up to the Group’s environmental health and safety 
standards.
Taxation
The overall tax charge on profit before tax was £6.2m 
(2014: £4.9m). The tax charge from continuing operations before 
amortisation and non-recurring items was £7.6m (2014: £7.0m),  
a rate of 26.8% (2014: 26.5%). The slight increase in effective rate 
relates to country mix of profits, in particular more profits derived 
from the USA and slightly higher UK costs.
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions during the year. 24
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
business review  
continued
Net debt
Overall net debt increased to £102.1m from £88.0m at November 2014, primarily due to the 
capital investments made during the year. Cash inflow from operations was £39.8m (2014: 
£38.1m excluding movements in loans to the Group’s Saudi Arabian joint venture, Bonar 
Natpet).
Trade working capital as a percentage of sales improved from 24% last year to 23%. Work is 
ongoing to improve the Sales & Operations Planning processes across the Group in order to 
optimise production planning and inventory management.
During the year, the Group spent £33.0m (2014: £19.0m) on property, plant and equipment 
and £0.7m (2014: £1.2m) on intangible assets. Excluding replacement, efficiency and health 
and safety related capital expenditure, the amount invested in equipment to support future 
growth was £23.0m (2014: £16.2m). The main items related to the new factory build in 
Changzhou, China and a new non-woven plant in Tiszaújváros, Hungary, which amounted to 
£13.6m (2014: £5.3m) and £5.6m (2014: £0.9m) respectively. The analysis of the Group’s net 
debt is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 33.9 25.8
Total bank debt (136.0) (113.8)
Net bank debt (102.1) (88.0)
The gearing ratio of total net debt to EBITDA increased from 1.9 times (in 2014) to 2.2 times.
The Group’s available debt facilities total €233m (2014: €210m) and comprise a five-year revolving 
credit facility of €165m through to July 2019, a private placement of €45m which becomes 
repayable in September 2016, and new loan facilities of RMB150m through to June 2020. In the 
coming months, the Group will seek to refinance the expiring private placement loan.
Return on capital employed
The return on capital employed has increased to 12.0% (2014: 11.4% restated). In previous 
years, the return was based on operating capital employed excluding acquired goodwill and 
pension liabilities. For the current year, the calculation of return is based on net assets and  
net debt, the target for which is 12%. The prior year comparator has been restated to reflect 
this change.
Dividends
The Directors have proposed an increased final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 
November 2015 of 1.80 pence per share which will absorb an estimated £6.0m of shareholders’ 
funds. This has not been provided for in these accounts because the dividend was proposed after 
the year end. If it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to 
be held on 31 March 2016, it will be paid on 14 April 2016 to Ordinary Shareholders who are on 
the register of members at close of business on 18 March 2016. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Pensions 
The charges for pensions are calculated in accordance with the 
requirement of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised). During the year, 
the Group’s UK defined benefit scheme continued to adopt a 
lower risk investment strategy in which the interest rate and 
inflation risks were more closely hedged and the exposure to 
equities reduced to 19% of the scheme’s assets (2014: 23%). At 30 
November 2015, the UK scheme showed a surplus of £5.2m (2014: 
£0.2m), principally due to the outperformance of the scheme’s 
assets against their expected return. The deficit in the Group’s 
overseas schemes in Belgium, Germany and the USA reduced to 
£9.9m (2014: £11.0m).
On 3 December 2015 the Group completed a medically-
underwritten buy-in of £34m of liabilities within its UK pension 
scheme, to eliminate interest rate, inflation and mortality risks and 
provide an effective liability and cash flow match.
 
Joint venture
The Group’s joint venture in Saudi Arabia, Bonar Natpet, made a 
loss during the year of £3.6m (2014: £2.2m), of which the Group’s 
share was £1.8m (2014: £1.1m). As noted above, an impairment 
charge has been made for the net equity investment in the joint 
venture and outstanding loan receivable from Bonar Natpet.
Restatement
During the year, the Group changed its organisational structure 
into five Global Business Units supported by Global Functions.  
The segmental analyses have been restated accordingly. 
Brett Simpson  Mike Holt
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
2 February 2016 2 February 2016 Clark Halladay
Global Business Director, 
Building & Industrial
2 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
BUILDING
& INDUSTRIAL
£62M
REVENUE
£8M
OPERATING PROFIT
13.6%
OPERATING MARGIN
Business review 
continued
The Building & Industrial business unit 
supplies a range of technical textile 
solutions for niche applications in the 
building, roofing, air and water filtration 
and agricultural markets. 
 2015 2014 Actual
Constant
currency
(1)
Revenue £61.7m £62.7m -1.6% +2.8%
Operating Profit
(2)
£8.4m £8.0m +5.0% +7.7%
Operating Margin 13.6% 12.8%
(1) Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at 
current period exchange rates.
(2) Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
On a constant currency basis, sales increased by 2.8% and 
operating profits by 7.7% with operating margins improving to 
13.6% from 12.8% last year. Sales were up in all markets, but 
building product sales were particularly strong during the second 
half of the year with high demand for roofing products in the USA. 
Good progress was made on filtration product sales and also 
screen sales to the agricultural sector. 
The business has invested in building further sales capability, mainly 
within the USA and China. New initiatives also include private label 
ventilation product sales to a major roofing manufacturer and new 
capacity to produce screens for the North American market.  
We expect further progress in 2016. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
The original gravel and tar roof of Detroit’s 
Opera House had remained unused since 
its construction in 1922. The gravel was 
uncomfortable to walk on and the surface 
was uneven, resulting in puddles when it 
rained. By 2015, the Detroit Opera House 
wanted to transform the Sky Deck, with its 
spectacular views of the City, into an outdoor 
entertainment and events venue. 
First it needed a smooth, hard floor surface. 
Manufactured by AZEK Building Products, 
AZEK Pavers are made with up to 95% recycled 
content. Using a unique grid system, they 
may be installed up to three times faster than 
traditional pavers and are also up to  
one-third lighter. 
AZEK Pavers and Low & Bonar’s Building & 
Industrial business unit collaborated to  
combine an innovative drainage layer of 
Enkadrain/W 3801, with a lightweight,  
easy-to-install paver system that can be used  
in horizontal applications.
Enkadrain/W 3801 drainage mats were 
installed under the pavers, the 40% recycled 
polypropylene core sandwiched between 
thermal bonded white and grey layers of 
Colback filter fabric. 
This was a successful launch project for the 
AZEK Pavers and Enkadrain lightweight 
combination. The mats lie flat and the 
breathable fabric allows water to pass through 
from top to bottom, preventing stagnant 
water from collecting underneath. Further uses 
include green roofs and any surface shape that 
requires flexibility.
COLLABORATION 
INSPIRES NEW 
SKY DECK FOR 
THE DETROIT 
OPERA HOUSE
MARKET DRIVERS
Food safety and water  
conservation in agriculture
Demand for air and  
water filtration
Demand for home  
and automotive filtration 2 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Neil Ryan
Global Business Director,
Civil Engineering
Business review 
continued
Civil 
Engineering
The Civil Engineering business unit 
supplies woven and non-woven 
geotextiles and construction fibres used in 
major infrastructure projects including 
road and rail building, land reclamation 
and coastal defence. 
 2015 2014 Actual
Constant 
currency
(1)
Revenue £85.4m £94.6m -9.7% -0.7%
Operating Profit
(2)
£3.1m £4.1m -24.4% -16.2%
Operating Margin 3.6% 4.3%
(1) Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at 
current period exchange rates.
(2) Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
As anticipated, demand for Civil Engineering products across 
Europe was stable but remained at levels well below normal. 
Sales volumes in the first half of the year were 3% below the first 
half of last year, whilst sales volumes in the second half were 
marginally better than the prior year. New leadership was 
brought into the business at the start of the summer to drive 
improvements in channel management and pricing, although the 
benefit from these initiatives will take some time to come 
through. Some production inefficiencies at the weaving plant in 
Lokeren, Belgium, provided a drag on margin, masking the 
improvement in underlying commercial performance. This also 
impacted Building & Industrial, albeit to a lesser extent. As we 
enter 2016, market sentiment is a little more positive than 
mid-year, albeit remaining cautious. 
During the year, a new macro fibre plant was installed in Belgium. 
Despite some early teething problems the plant is now producing 
class-leading fibres for the construction market. The focus going 
forward will be to capitalise on this product advantage and 
improve unit product costs. 
£85M
REVENUE
£3M
OPERATING PROFIT
3.6%
OPERATING MARGIN Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2 9
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
The Roy Hill Project is a 55 million tonne per annum iron ore mining, 
rail and port project in Western Australia, where dyke protection 
against flooding, erosion and scour was essential. Traditionally, this 
is done using rock revetment with a non-woven filter. 
In 2015 Low & Bonar’s Civil Engineering business unit developed 
a unique, economically attractive alternative with Loop Pile 
Fabric (LPF), delivering 94,000m
2
 of LPF to the Roy Hill Project.
LPF combines the weight of the ballast with a filter using durable 
woven/looped fabric, creating a unique ‘one-go’ product. 
Installation is easy and fast, eliminating the cost of traditional 
materials and their transportation.
The durability and sustainability of the structure is vital. Every 
component used in the Roy Hill project needs a design life of 
85 years under marine conditions. LPF easily delivers on this 
requirement, with a durability of up to 100 years.
NOVEL APPROACH  
TO DYKE PROTECTION 
INCREASED 
DURABILITY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY
MARKET DRIVERS
Urbanisation and need for more 
and better infrastructure
Lower carbon footprint and 
environmental benefits compared 
to traditional materials
Faster, safer construction and 
improved durability
Increased quality control in 
performance and safety 30
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Marc Krauth
Global Business Director, 
Coated Technical Textiles
Coated  
Technical 
Textiles
Business review 
continued
The Coated Technical Textiles business unit 
supplies a range of technical coated fabrics 
providing aesthetics and design, 
performance and protection in products 
such as tensioned architectural structures, 
awnings, marquees, advertising banners, 
tarpaulins and vehicle curtain sides to the 
transport, building products, print, leisure 
and industrial markets. 
 2015 2014 Actual
Constant 
currency
(1)
Revenue £120.4m £128.2m -6.1% +3.5%
Operating Profit
(2)
£12.8m £13.7m -6.6% +4.1%
Operating Margin 10.6% 10.7% 
(1) Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at 
current period exchange rates.
(2) Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
Coated Technical Textiles delivered another good result, with 
operating profits up 4.1% on a constant currency basis. Margins 
were broadly unchanged as further cost efficiencies were offset by 
fewer sales of higher margin tensile architecture products due to 
project delays and cancellations, particularly in the Middle East, 
and lower sales in Russia of niche container fabrics. The trailer 
market remained buoyant throughout the year and further market 
gains were achieved.
The focus in the coming year will be to increase the proportion of 
higher margin product sales and extend geographic reach. Copyright Taiyo Europe
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
31
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
£120M
REVENUE
£13M
OPERATING PROFIT
10.6%
OPERATING MARGIN
MARKET DRIVERS
Demand for infrastructure and 
quality of life improvements in 
areas of economic development
Protection of food supplies in 
transportation
Growth in renewable energy  
sector
The designers of the 2015 ConExpo 
exhibition in Milan, Italy needed a material 
that would cover 85,000m
2
 of exhibition 
space, providing shade and shelter from the 
hot summer weather. 
Low & Bonar’s Coated Technical Textiles 
(CTT) business unit provided a high-quality 
coated textile material to cover the two 
axes, in a form derived from the Roman 
concept of a town’s grid with a decumanus 
east-west street and the perpendicular 
cardo street. These are the typical features 
of Roman town planning which can be seen 
in the grids of old Roman towns in Italy, 
Jerusalem and Damascus.
These technical textiles are carrier fabrics, 
manufactured in Group-owned weaving 
mills. The coatings are manufactured from 
several components depending on the 
application.
Covering the area of 13 football pitches, 
the huge structures at ConExpo are easy to 
recycle and the CTT business unit is working 
with NGOs about the potential to use the 
tents as shelters for refugees.
RE-INVENTING THE 
PAST TO CREATE A 
SOLUTION FOR TODAY 3 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Gareth Kaminski-Cook
Global Business Director, 
Interior & Transportation
Business review  
continued
INTERIOR &
TRANSPORTATION
£90M
REVENUE
£13M
OPERATING PROFIT
14.7%
OPERATING MARGIN
The Interior & Transportation business unit 
supplies technical fabrics used in 
transportation, interior carpeting, resilient 
tiles and decorative products. 
 2015 2014 Actual
Constant 
currency
(1)
Revenue £90.0m £88.9m +1.2% +1.0%
Operating Profit
(2)
£13.2m £10.1m +30.7% +29.4%
Operating Margin 14.7% 11.4%
(1) Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at 
current period exchange rates.
(2) Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
Interior & Transportation delivered good profit growth; profits were 
up 29.4% on a constant currency basis. Revenues increased by 
1.0% but growth was constrained by capacity being sold out 
pending commissioning of the new facility in Changzhou, China. 
Profits benefited from favourable raw material pricing during the 
first half of the year. Sales to China, from Europe and the USA, 
picked up during the latter part of the year, particularly in the 
carpet tile backing and flower wrap sectors. Margins advanced to 
14.7% (2014: 11.4%).
During the year, Interior & Transportation has invested in developing 
backing products for the resilient flooring market (cushion vinyl, lino 
and luxury vinyl tiles) and sales prospects are encouraging. The 
benefits of improved innovation and additional capacity will be 
increasingly evident as we move through the coming year. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
33
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
SMART 
TECHNOLOGY 
THAT BRINGS THE 
BRIGHTEST IDEAS 
TO LIFE 
Smart technology that brings the brightest ideas  
to life
A luxurious carpet has been developed with close 
cooperation and support between Philips Lighting, carpet 
manufacturer Desso and Colback
®
 fabric, from Low & 
Bonar’s Interior & Transportation business unit, which has 
been used as a light transmissive carrier material for the 
carpet. Branded Luminous Carpets
™
, the carpet combines 
Philips Lighting LED technology with resilient and 
luxurious looking Desso carpet. The result is a durable, 
stylish flooring solution that will be used to welcome, 
attract and guide guests and visitors in ways they’ve 
never seen before.
 
The solution has been designed to fit seamlessly into 
the building architecture without disrupting essential 
processes like cleaning. Cutting-edge LEDs are built into 
strong units that also protect the lights from any spilt 
fluids. These are combined with high quality carpets, 
especially developed for the purpose.
 
With a little guidance, Luminous Carpets
™
 may be 
installed easily into the floor and connected to the 
electrical and IT infrastructure. They then synchronise 
with the building management system and run pre-
programmed light displays. Alternatively, it is possible 
to change the lights on-demand from a tablet or other 
networked device.
MARKET DRIVERS
Economic and environmental 
requirements driving high 
strength, low weight flooring 
solutions
Ease of handling, aesthetic and 
design flexibility driving 
substitution of wall-to-wall carpet 
with carpet tiles 3 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Sports  
& Leisure
£38M
REVENUE
£1M
OPERATING PROFIT
3.1%
OPERATING MARGIN
Business review 
continued
The Sports & Leisure business unit supplies 
a diverse and extensive range of yarns for 
synthetic turf for sports and landscape 
applications and backing yarns for a variety 
of carpet applications. 
 2015 2014 Actual
Constant 
currency
(1)
Revenue £38.3m £36.2m +5.8% +9.1%
Operating Profit
(2)
£1.2m £0.9m +33.3% +20.0%
Operating Margin 3.1% 2.5%
(1) Constant currency is calculated by retranslating comparative period results at 
current period exchange rates.
(2) Before amortisation and non-recurring items.
Sports & Leisure had a good year and sales increased by 9.1% on a 
constant currency basis. Market conditions generally were positive, 
but we believe that the business gained market share as its 
reputation for product quality and customer service continues 
to grow.
The relocation of fibrillated grass yarn production from Dundee  
to Abu Dhabi announced last year progressed as planned and, 
from April 2015 onwards, two lines were in full production in 
Abu Dhabi. Savings in the year from the relocation amounted  
to circa £0.3m.
Jan van Boldrik
Global Business Director, 
Sports & Leisure Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
3 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Dutch football team ATC’65 required a 
high performance pitch and chose to install 
a synthetic playing surface, using third 
generation (3G) artificial turf.
Low & Bonar’s Sports & Leisure (S&L) 
business unit worked with leading artificial 
turf supplier, Act Global, to deliver an 
innovative new woven system incorporating 
its polypropylene carpet fibres, as well 
as an exclusive yarn which combines the 
highly durable MN Ultra and MN Slide fibres. 
The solution also features a new product, 
ENKA Flex H, as the system’s drainage layer 
(horizontal) and shockpad absorber. 
The new field comprises the highest quality 
MN Ultra fibres, which provide ATC’65 with a 
careful balance between durability, resilience 
and skin friendliness – through proven 
Ultra technology. A woven manufacturing 
technique was then incorporated in the surface 
backing of the pitch using S&L’s carpet fibres 
– providing a surface which combines both 
elements of yarn produced in the Group’s 
Dundee and Abu Dhabi factories. The ENKA 
component of the system provides the pitch 
with excellent horizontal drainage and long 
term performance in terms of the shockpad –  
a solution which is tested and proven to pass 
FIFA performance standards – making the pitch 
ready for elite level professionals. 
INNOVATIVE NEW 
WOVEN SYSTEM 
DELIVERS A HIGH 
PERFORMANCE PITCH
MARKET DRIVERS
Innovative technology solutions 
improving the perception of 
synthetic turf
New opportunities in demand for 
advanced carpet-backing solutions 36
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
IDENTIFY
Strategic 
Risks impacting long-term strategic 
objectives.
Operational
Risks arising during day-to-day 
activities which, if not managed,  
could impact upon the running of  
the business.
Financial
Risks impacting directly upon the 
finances of the business.
Compliance
Risks relating to legal and regulatory 
sanctions and reputational damage 
arising from failure to comply with 
applicable laws and regulations.
Principal risks  
& uncertainties
The Group has an 
established risk 
management framework 
which is designed to 
identify, evaluate and 
manage the risks and 
uncertainties facing the 
Group. Within this 
framework, we classify risks 
into four distinct categories 
according to their potential 
impact on the Group. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
3 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
EVALUATE
Formal responsibility for risk matters 
set out in the Group Risk Register 
is divided between the Board, the 
Audit Committee, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Risk Oversight 
Committee. Internal Audit also 
has a direct reporting line to the 
Audit Committee and attends Audit 
Committee meetings by invitation. As 
careful management of risk is also a 
key management activity, the Group’s 
work in the area of operational risk 
management has been facilitated by 
the Risk Oversight Committee. 
The key risks noted below are 
evaluated by these bodies as a 
standing agenda item at each of 
the relevant meetings in terms of 
the probability of the risk occurring 
and the impact it would have on the 
Group. 
MITIGATE
Each identified risk has a mitigation 
process developed for it, including 
how often the mitigation activity 
takes place, who is accountable for 
the process, the assessment of the 
adequacy of the mitigation strategy 
and who will undertake the assurance 
to ensure that the risk is mitigated. 
RISK PROFILE 
(RELATIVE TO PRIOR YEAR)
 STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE
Increasing Global economic 
activity
Organic growth/
competition
Laws and 
regulations
Stable Cyber security 
Growth strategy
Business continuity
Employee
Raw material 
pricing
Treasury
Reducing Funding
Pension funding
 Health and safety  38
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Principal risks & uncertainties  
continued
RISK MOVEMENT MITIGATING STRATEGY
Global economic activity
The Group may be adversely affected by global economic 
conditions, particularly in its principal markets in mainland 
Europe and North America. The volatility of international 
markets could result in reduced levels of demand for the 
Group’s products, a greater risk of customers defaulting on 
payment terms, supply chain risk and a higher risk of 
inventory obsolescence.
Local operating management monitor their own markets and are empowered 
to respond quickly to changing conditions. Production costs may be quickly 
flexed to balance production with demand, including the use of short-time 
working arrangements where available. Further actions, such as reducing the 
Group’s cost base and cancelling or delaying capital investment plans, are 
available to allow continued profitability and cash generation in the face of a 
sustained reduction in volumes.
The Group also has a broad base of customers. Group policies ensure 
customers are given an appropriate level of credit based on their trading 
history and financial status, and a prudent approach is adopted towards 
credit control. Credit insurance is used where available.
Procurement management mitigates supply chain risk by identifying and 
qualifying alternative sources of key raw materials.
Organic growth/competition 
The markets in which the Group operates are competitive 
with respect to price, geographic distinction, functionality, 
brand recognition and the effectiveness of sales and 
marketing.
The Group has chosen to operate in attractive niche markets within the 
technical textile industry, using proprietary technology to manufacture 
products which are important determinants of the performance and/or 
efficiency of our customers’ final product or process.
Significant resources are dedicated to developing and maintaining strong 
relationships with our customers, and to developing new and innovative 
products which meet their precise needs. 
The Board believes that these factors maintain the Group’s strong 
competitive position.
Cyber security 
Disruption to or penetration of our information technology 
platforms could have a significant adverse effect on the 
Group.
The Group’s information technology resources are continuously monitored 
and maintained by appropriately trained staff and safeguards are in place to 
provide security of our networks and data. The Group has business continuity 
measures in place to minimise the impact of any disruption to its operations.
Growth strategy 
The Board believes that growth, both organic and through 
acquisitions, is a fundamental part of its strategy for the 
Group. The Board reviews such growth opportunities on an 
ongoing basis and its acquisition strategy is based on 
appropriate acquisition targets being available and on 
acquired companies being integrated rapidly and 
successfully into the Group.
The current focus of the Group is on profitable, cash-generative organic 
growth supplemented by acquisitions where appropriate.
The senior management team is experienced and has successfully executed 
and integrated several acquisitions and joint ventures in the past. 
Acquisitions are made subject to clearly defined criteria in existing or 
adjacent segments whose products and technologies are well understood, 
and only after extensive pre-acquisition due diligence. Acquisition proposals 
are supported by a detailed post-acquisition integration plan that is 
rigorously managed through to completion.
Business continuity 
The occurrence of major operational problems could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group. These may include 
risks of fire or major environmental damage.
The Group has crisis response procedures including business continuity/
disaster recovery plans in place to minimise the impact of any disruption to 
its operations and has process controls and proactive maintenance 
programmes designed to avoid problems arising. These are supported by 
regular site visits from risk management and internal audit staff, and training 
programmes provided by the Group Health, Safety and Environment  
(“HSE”) committee.
Where appropriate, risks are partially transferred through insurance 
programmes.
Employee
The Group is reliant on its ability to attract, develop and 
retain key employees.
Employee retention and development is a key feature in ensuring the 
continued success of the Group. Employees are recruited and regularly 
appraised against a formal job specification. Formal policies cover all material 
aspects of employment and we are committed to effective communication 
with employees and employee development. We empower our people to 
take initiative, to think and act for themselves. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
39
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
RISK MOVEMENT MITIGATING STRATEGY
Raw material pricing
The Group’s profitability can be affected by the purchase 
price of its key raw materials and its ability to reflect any 
changes through its selling prices. The Group’s main raw 
materials are polypropylene, polyester, nylon, 
polyethylene and PVC. The prices of these raw materials 
are volatile, and they are influenced ultimately by oil 
prices and the balance of supply and demand for each 
polymer.
The Group has a good level of expertise in polymer purchasing and uses a 
number of suppliers to ensure a balance between competitive pricing and 
continuity of supply.
The Group’s focus on operating efficiencies and the strength of its product 
propositions has in the past allowed the effect of raw material cost 
fluctuations to be successfully managed.
Treasury
Foreign exchange is the most significant treasury risk for 
the Group.
The reported value of profits earned by the Group’s 
overseas entities is sensitive to the strength of Sterling, 
particularly against the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the 
US Dollar. The Group is exposed to a lesser extent to 
other treasury risks such as interest rate risk and 
counterparty credit risk.
Group policy aims to naturally hedge transactional foreign exchange risks 
by buying and selling in the same currency. Policy in relation to residual risk 
ensures treasury activities are focused on the management of risk with 
high quality counterparties; no speculative transactions are undertaken. 
The Group uses financial instruments to manage the exposures that may 
arise from its business operations as a result of movements in financial 
markets.
Funding
The Group, like many other companies, is dependent on 
its ability to both service its existing debts, and to access 
sufficient funding to refinance its liabilities when they fall 
due and to provide sufficient capital to finance its 
growth strategy.
The Group manages its capital to safeguard its ability to continue as a going 
concern, to optimise its capital structure and to provide sufficient liquidity 
to support its operations and the Board’s strategic plans. The Group’s 
borrowing requirements are regularly reforecast to ensure funding is in 
place to support its operations and growth plans. Compliance with the 
covenants associated with these facilities is closely monitored.
Pension funding
The Group may be required to increase its contributions 
into its defined benefit pension schemes to cover funding 
shortfalls. The funding may be affected by poor 
investment performance of pension fund investments, 
changes in the discount rate applied and longer life 
expectancy of members.
The main Group scheme is closed to new members and to future benefit 
accrual; and assumptions, including funding rates, are set in line with the 
actuaries’ recommendations. Regular dialogue takes place with pension 
fund trustees and the Board regularly discusses pension fund strategy.
Laws and regulations
The Group’s operations are subject to a wide range of 
laws and regulations, including employment, 
environmental and health and safety legislation, along 
with product liability and contractual risks.
The Group’s policy manuals ensure all applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements are met or exceeded in all territories in which it operates, and 
ongoing programmes and systems monitor compliance and provide training 
for relevant employees.
Product liability risks are managed through stringent quality control 
procedures covering review of goods on receipt and prior to despatch and 
all manufacturing processes. Insurance cover, appropriate for the nature of 
the Group’s business and its size, is maintained. The Group also seeks to 
minimise risks through its terms and conditions of trading.
Health and safety
The nature of the Group’s operations presents risks to the 
health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors. 
Furthermore, inadequate health and safety practices 
could lead to business disruption, financial penalties or 
loss of reputation.
The Group’s health and safety strategy aims to embed a strong and 
proactive health and safety culture across all aspects of our business. 
Health and safety matters are discussed at Group Board and business level 
meetings, and the Group HSE committee meets regularly to develop and 
implement Group health and safety standards and Global Improvement 
Programmes, investigate incidents and near misses, and share best practice. 
Performance is monitored against Group-wide health and safety KPIs. 4 0
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
risk oversight
RISK OVERSIGHT
▼
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
oversees risk management as a whole and delegates responsibility for addressing individual risk issues to
AUDIT COMMITTEE
delegated responsibility for control of  
funding and capital, financial controls, 
evaluation and control of acquisitions, 
information, valuation and reporting in 
respect of pensions and treasury matters
BOARD
political risks, take-overs, funding and  
capital, acquisitions, the funding of pensions 
and investor relations
RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
delegated responsibility for risks in the 
areas of health and safety, information 
security, the environment, major physical 
or operational incidents, raw materials, 
product failure, new product development, 
competition, customers, human resources 
and regulatory and compliance issues
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
considers risks associated with remuneration structures and advises the Board, the Audit Committee and the  
Risk Oversight Committee as appropriate
In recognition of its responsibility for risk issues, the Board has 
reviewed the key risks associated with the business and will 
continue to do so as a regular agenda item at its meetings in the 
coming year. Formal responsibility for risk matters set out in the 
Group Risk Register is divided between the Board, the Audit 
Committee and the Risk Oversight Committee. The Board has 
primary responsibility for those risks broadly categorised as political 
risks, take-overs, funding and capital, acquisitions, the funding of 
pensions and investor relations. The Audit Committee has 
delegated responsibility for control of funding and capital, financial 
controls, evaluation and control of acquisitions, information, 
valuation and reporting in respect of pensions and treasury 
matters. The internal audit function has a direct reporting line to 
the Audit Committee and relevant representatives attend Audit 
Committee meetings by invitation. The Remuneration Committee 
considers risks associated with remuneration structures and advises 
the Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk Oversight Committee 
accordingly.
As careful management of risk is also a key management activity, 
the Group’s work in the area of operational risk management is 
facilitated by the Risk Oversight Committee which is chaired by the 
Chief Financial Officer and is attended by the Group Chief 
Executive and other members of the Executive Leadership Team 
together with the Group Health & Safety Director and Deputy 
Group Finance Director. The Risk Oversight Committee has 
delegated responsibility for risks in the areas of health and safety, 
information security, the environment, major physical or 
operational incidents, raw materials, product failure, new product 
development, competition, customers, human resources and 
regulatory and compliance issues. HSE matters have been overseen 
by a sub-committee, known as the Group HSE Committee, which is 
chaired by the Group Health and Safety Director. Information 
security matters are now overseen by a sub-committee, known as 
the Information Security Committee, which is chaired by the 
Deputy Group Finance Director.
The Risk Oversight Committee meets at least three times a year 
and operates under formal terms of reference established by the 
Board and is committed to continuing to develop and embed risk 
management processes within the Group. The Risk Oversight 
Committee is specifically charged with developing Group 
management of, and policy towards, environmental, social and 
governance (“ESG”) risks so that the Board may take account of 
their significance to the business of the Group in both the short 
and long term and to ensure that the Group has in place effective 
systems for managing and mitigating significant ESG risks, 
including appropriate key performance indicators. The work of all 
of the Board committees relating to risk management is discussed 
at full Board meetings on a regular basis in addition to the work 
undertaken by the Board on key risk issues. The Risk Oversight 
Committee receives reports from the Group HSE Committee and 
the Information Security Committee and reports on relevant 
matters to the Board. The Group Health and Safety Director, who 
deals with HSE issues, reports to the Risk Oversight Committee in 
his capacity as Chairman of the Group HSE Committee. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
41
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
In addition to the risk review process and the internal audit 
function, the Group operates within an established internal 
financial control framework, which can be described under three 
headings:
• financial reporting: there is a comprehensive budgeting system 
with an annual budget approved by the Directors. Monthly 
actual results are reported against budget and revised forecasts 
for the year, which are prepared regularly. 
• operating unit controls: financial controls and procedures, 
including information system controls, are detailed in the Group 
Policies and Procedures Manual. All operating units are required 
to confirm quarterly their compliance with policies and 
procedures set out in the manual (including those relating to 
HSE matters), local laws and regulations and report any control 
weaknesses identified in the past year. Independent 
confirmation of compliance is obtained annually for selected 
operating units. 
• investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined guidelines 
for capital expenditure which are also set out in the Group 
Policies and Procedures Manual. These include detailed appraisal 
and review procedures, levels of authority and post-completion 
audits. Where businesses are being acquired, detailed due 
diligence is undertaken in advance of acquisition. 
The Company is committed to ensuring that all employees comply 
with all anti-trust legislation. To ensure that relevant employees are 
aware of the issues and receive the appropriate level of training 
and information, the Group has a personalised online anti-trust 
compliance training programme which all relevant personnel within 
the Group are required to complete on a regular basis.
The continued development and implementation of the risk 
management and internal control system across the Group has 
allowed the Directors to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code provisions on internal control in the course of 
the financial year ended 30 November 2015.
The Risk Oversight Committee also ensures that the Group is able 
to respond adequately to the UK’s Bribery Act 2010 and has 
overseen an enterprise-wide risk assessment process and 
developed a detailed set of polices and procedures in response to 
the findings of that assessment. The Group values its reputation for 
ethical behaviour and for financial integrity and has a commitment 
to carry out business fairly, honestly and openly. We will not 
tolerate bribery in our dealings. It is illegal and harmful for 
business. Any involvement with improper inducements in order to 
secure business or gain any advantage for either any Group 
company or our employees reflects adversely on our image and 
reputation and undermines the confidence of our customers and 
other business partners in us. We seek to eliminate bribery in our 
business dealings by:
• setting out a clear anti-bribery policy; 
• training all of our employees so that they can recognise and 
avoid the use of bribery by themselves and others; 
• encouraging our employees to be vigilant and to report any 
suspicion of bribery through suitable channels of 
communication and ensuring sensitive information is treated 
appropriately; 
• rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and 
assisting the police and other appropriate authorities in any 
resultant prosecution; and 
• taking firm and vigorous action against any individual(s) 
involved in bribery.  42
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
STAKEHOLDERS
Low & Bonar believes that good CSR 
programmes add value to all of our 
stakeholders in the short, medium 
and long term, build pride in the 
business for those who work in our 
company, and help us to recruit and 
retain the best talent.
INTEGRITY
FREEDOM  
TO OPERATE
INNOVATION
ACCOUNTABILITY
OPEN 
COMMUNICATION
Corporate  
& social 
responsibility
Corporate & social responsibility (CSR) lies at 
the heart of Low & Bonar’s values, and we 
recognise our stakeholders have rising 
expectations of both our CSR commitment 
and our performance. 
One of our core business values is integrity, which we describe as 
“maintaining the highest ethical standards wherever we operate ... 
ensuring the health and safety of all our people and minimising our 
impact on the environment”. Through this we bring CSR into our 
day-to-day business.
2015 has again been a period during which we have focused 
significant effort, resource and capital in our CSR programmes. We 
remain committed to reviewing all aspects of our CSR processes 
and looking for opportunities to improve them, as by doing so we 
are also supporting our long-term strategy.
CSR Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
4 3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
2015 PRIORITIES 2015 PROGRESS 2016 PRIORITIES
Embed new integrated Group Health, Safety 
and Environmental (“HSE”) policy statement 
across all Group companies.
Policy statement embedded. Ensure policy is fully integrated at 
new sites in China and Hungary.
Introduce new environmental metrics. List of environmental metrics developed and 
agreed to be consistent with GRI standards. 
Finance and Purchasing functions engaged to 
realise data capture.
Commence monthly data capture 
and quarterly internal reporting for 
environmental metrics.
Launch enhanced environmental programme. New prioritised elements of environmental 
programme (Project Planet) developed.
Launch Project Planet at Global HSE 
Community Meeting.
Continue with the programme to expand the 
use of Environmental Management Systems.
A number of sites continued to work towards 
introducing ISO 14001 and three sites in 
Germany achieved ISO 50001 certification.
Further three sites to achieve ISO 
14001 certification, and one other 
to work towards introducing ISO 
50001. 
Carry out a series of formal energy audits 
across selected locations.
A number of projects have been completed 
to reduce energy use, including both gas and 
electricity use. Energy audits were carried out 
at three sites.
Carry out energy audits at 
additional sites.
Carry out a survey of key waste reduction 
projects at our sites to review opportunities 
for further waste reduction and re-use.
A number of waste reduction projects have 
been completed as well as investments to 
increase re-use of onsite and offsite waste 
streams.
Maintain focus on the identification 
of further opportunities to reduce 
waste and recycle materials.
Carry out further review of eco-efficiency 
opportunities.
We have continued to seek to develop new 
products that have applications to support 
global sustainability megatrends.
Continue to review eco-efficiency 
opportunities. 
Continue to seek to enhance employee 
engagement for HSE programmes.
Successful third global health and safety week 
event held (focusing on health).
The fourth global health and safety 
week event will take place later in 
2016.
Continue with Machinery Safety Programme 
and Global Improvement Programmes (GIPs) 
on hand injuries, manual handling and slip/
trip/fall accidents. In addition, launch of our 
GIP on fire safety of key plant items. 
Machinery Safety Programme continued; and 
GIPs on hand injuries, manual handling and 
slip/trip/fall accidents continued to have an 
impact.
Use health and safety GIPs to 
reduce inherent risk and deal with 
accident hot spot topics. 
Introduce a range of new global health and 
safety standards.
Four new health and safety standards issued 
covering Low & Bonar’s health and safety 
management system, the notification, 
reporting and investigation of accidents and 
incidents, safe loading and unloading of 
road transport vehicles and thermographic 
examination of electrical equipment.
A range of further new/updated 
health and safety standards will be 
issued.
Reduce LTA incident rate to 400 by the end 
of 2015.
LTA incident rate reduced to 380 in one year. A new LTA target rate of 200 has 
been set. 44
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Corporate & social responsibility 
continued
Environmental
management
Low & Bonar Group approach
Environmental management remains a key area 
of focus, as we recognise the environmental 
impact of our use of raw materials, from our 
manufacturing processes, including use of 
energy, water and the generation of waste, and 
via the use and disposal of our products. We 
continually seek to improve environmental 
management, and compliance with 
environmental regulation is a minimum standard 
to be achieved.
Low & Bonar focuses its efforts on energy 
efficiency, the reduction of process emissions, the 
replacement of virgin raw materials with recycled 
material, where possible, and the minimisation of 
waste. Active plans are in place to support 
continuous improvement and these plans will be 
enhanced by improved reporting metrics and the 
broader adoption of certified environmental 
management systems as described below. Please 
go to http://www.lowandbonar.com/governance-
and-csr/environment.aspx for more information.
We continue to review our environmental 
management programme, as well as key 
performance indicators for environmental 
performance. As a result, we have introduced a 
new environmental incident reporting 
requirement and three minor incidents were 
recorded, fully investigated and appropriate 
remedial actions implemented during the year.
We have expanded the range of environmental 
performance metrics to be measured and 
reported. They will be piloted during 2016 and 
will conform to the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
G4 guidelines where possible.
An enhanced environmental programme, Project 
Planet, will be launched early in 2016. The key 
elements of the programme will include:
• expanding our health and safety 
information sharing platform to include 
environmental topics;
• developing and delivering an environmental 
masterclass to the global HSE community;
• carrying out checks to confirm 
environmental compliance across all sites;
• setting goals and targets for reductions in 
key environmental impact areas when the 
enhanced environmental performance data 
collection process has matured;
• a continued focus on energy efficiency and 
carrying out energy audits at each location;
• a continued focus on waste reduction, the 
use of internal waste streams as feedstock 
and the use of external waste streams, 
where possible;
• a review of all site emissions to identify 
areas for control improvements; and
• opportunities for process efficiency 
improvements and innovation 
opportunities to reduce our environmental 
impacts and enhance the positive impacts 
of our products.
Currently, three of our manufacturing sites are 
certified to the Environmental Management 
Systems ISO 14001:2004. A number of our sites 
are working towards achieving certification in 
2016. Three manufacturing sites have now been 
certified to ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management 
Systems Standard. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
We report our greenhouse gas (“GHG") emission 
footprint covering all direct and indirect emissions 
for all relevant Group companies, expressed as 
tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent (CO
2
(e)), 
on page 45. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
45
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS
Our greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions report in line 
with UK mandatory reporting requirements under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 is set out below. Emissions rose in 
the year, though a much smaller increase than for the 
previous year. This reflects the continued improvements 
in our processes for capturing and recording data, as 
well as differences in output. For instance, the increase 
in emissions correlates to a new facility in Saudi Arabia 
which was in the commissioning stage in 2014 and has 
now significantly increased its output.
We have used the methodology set out by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
(“DEFRA”) Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 
to compile this report. As required, we have reported 
on our scope 1 and 2 emissions, which comprise direct 
emissions, such as heating and vehicle fuel, and indirect 
emissions such as purchased electricity. 
The sources of emissions included in our reporting fall 
within our consolidated financial statement. We do not 
have responsibility for any emission sources that are 
not included in our consolidated financial statements. 
Where data relates to a joint venture (or similar) the 
emissions have been apportioned on the basis of equity 
ownership. 
We have computed our emissions using the DEFRA 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including 
mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting 
guidance issued in June 2013. For our UK operations, we 
have used the UK Government’s 2015 conversion factors. 
For non-UK operations we have used the relevant 
government data where that is available. Where no local 
government data was available to us, we have used the 
best available source. Our total GHG footprint in line 
with these guidelines is 124,750 tonnes of CO 2(e), which 
is equivalent to 315.2 tonnes of CO 2(e) per £1m of Group 
revenue.
Low & Bonar Group emission data for period  
1 December 2014 to 30 November 2015 
Tonnes of CO2(e)
1
2014
Tonnes of CO2(e)
2015
Energy emissions 118,997 123,469
Process emissions 0 0
Fugitive emissions 72 103
Vehicle related emissions 974 1,178
Total CO 2(e) 120,043 124,750
Intensity ratio per £1m  
of Group revenue
2
292.4 315.2
1. The emissions data for the 2014 financial year has been restated to 
account for a correction in a conversion calculation applied to the 
consumption of grid gas in respect of three sites. The total was 
previously reported as 112,458 tCO
2
(e), which is a difference of 7,585 
tCO
2
(e). The intensity ratio has changed from 273.9 to 292.4 tCO
2
(e)  
per £1m of Group revenue.
2. This is based on the revenue of Low & Bonar Group for the year to 30 
November. The diverse and complex nature of the Group’s operations 
means that a metric based on units of production would  
not provide a consistent picture. Similarly, there is no meaningful 
relationship between occupied floor area or employee numbers and the 
carbon intensity of our operations. We will continue to monitor and 
review the appropriateness of the intensity ratio.
Environmental Impacts 
Group Operations continues to play a key role in 
environmental management as each site has impacts 
that are specific to its manufacturing processes. Each 
site has arrangements and improvement plans in place, 
and environmental performance metrics form an 
integral part of their management information. We 
seek to continuously improve the management of 
environmental impacts.
We seek to ensure that our product portfolio provides 
the best environmental performance available and, 
where possible, to innovate with products that have 
sustainability at their core. Coated Technical Textiles 
has its “Eco-care
®
” programme, designed to bring  
the responsible management of energy and resources, 
sustainable materials and recycling of coated textiles 
under one label. The Eco-care
®
 concept includes 
incorporation of ecological criteria in the selection of 
raw materials, the use of less environmentally harmful 
production processes, the use of recyclable packaging 
materials and participation in the development of 
recycling systems.
Sports & Leisure uses a technology which allows the 
recycling of much of the polymer waste from the 
production process by re-extruding it into pellets, 
which are then re-used as raw material in specific 
products.  4 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Low & Bonar products
The Group is proud of its many products, which, as well as 
providing excellent quality and value, often support our customers 
in reducing the environmental footprint within their supply chain.
Alternative energy infrastructure and energy saving 
products
Flexible VALMEX
®
 enviro pro gas tanks, manufactured by Coated 
Technical Textiles, are ideally suited to the safe storage of biogas 
due to their special fabric design meeting strict safety standards.
Our Lumina and Clima ranges reduce energy consumption in 
greenhouses. Our new PhormiTex Eclipse
®
 product supports plant 
growers that require a screen which ensures complete darkness, 
but also reflects the sunlight to avoid warming and enables 
moisture transport when the screen is closed on hot summer days. 
The new PhormiTex Eclipse
®
 products are also flame retardant to 
minimise a key risk.
Ground management and groundcover materials
We supply weed-controlling groundcovers, which reduce or 
eliminate the need for pesticides, as well as soil-stabilising and 
filtering geotextiles, which provide protection against soil erosion 
and contamination. A key sustainable groundcover product range, 
Duracover, is a 100% bio-based textile/compostable groundcover 
earning a 4-star certificate from AIB Vinçotte.
Artificial grass
We manufacture artificial grass yarns which reduce customer water 
consumption and the energy use and emissions related to water 
production. Artificial grass also allows the end user to reduce use 
of fossil fuels in lawn or pitch maintenance and avoid use of 
fertilisers and herbicides.
Green building infrastructure materials
Our green roof products’ compliance with energy performance 
criteria and optimisation of energy performance, provide important 
aids to architects, landscape architects and engineers to help their 
buildings achieve LEED Certification, a recognised standard for 
measuring building sustainability. 
Environmental impacts and examples of improvement 
programmes
Sourcing and the efficient use of raw material, including, where 
possible, the use of previously used or recycled material, remain 
important environmental activities. Our Colback
®
 Green is a 
high-performance carpet backing made from 100% recycled raw 
materials from carpet waste; Colbonddrain
®
, a pre-fabricated 
vertical drain for accelerating soil consolidation in civil engineering 
projects, has a patented high-performance drainage core made of 
recycled polyolefin. EnkaRetain & Drain
®
, a drainage, protection 
and insulation layer for the American green roof market, has a 
composite made from post-industrial recycled polypropylenes. 
Coated Technical Textiles sold 2.5 million m
2
 of coated fabric based 
on recycled material in 2015, an increase of approximately 8.5% 
compared to last year and our innovative Bonaeco
®
 carpet yarns 
are made from 100% recycled material.
We have introduced use of transportation frames, which have the 
potential to almost double the weight utilisation of trucks that 
transport finished goods between warehouses in operations in 
Germany, which has reduced the number of trucks by about 200 
truckloads per year, achieving a significant reduction of CO
2
 
emissions
Energy management and the use of renewable energy
We continually review opportunities to reduce energy use and 
review the balance of renewable energy in our energy mix.  
Our Sports & Leisure business unit is part of the UK Government’s 
Carbon Reduction Commitment (“CRC”) energy efficiency scheme. 
Since 2005, our two sites in Belgium have been working with an 
energy audit organisation established under the framework of the 
Kyoto Protocol. They have been screened for their energy 
consumption and all significant energy uses were measured 
separately, enabling us to take targeted measures where necessary. 
For example, at our Lokeren site, in the extrusion department we 
have replaced the lighting resulting in improved working conditions 
and less energy consumption. A project commenced at the end of 
2015 at our plant in Asheville, North Carolina to replace all existing 
fluorescent tubes with more efficient (and brighter) LED lighting. 
Development of the new plant, in Changzhou, China has seen 
process steps combined and improved burner technology, resulting 
in reduced heating energy. Energy saving audits are scheduled for 
our sites in Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands in 
2016. Sites that have not undergone a recent energy audit will be 
audited over the next 18 months.
Corporate & social responsibility 
continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
47
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Waste management
A waste hierarchy process which starts with avoiding waste 
production through to re-use and recycling has been adopted 
throughout our operations.
At our Coated Technical Textiles business unit, the recycling of PVC 
waste is key to environmental performance, and CTT is a member 
and financial supporter of the key industry programmes. Examples 
of this include:
• Following installation of a third online recycling unit in 2014 at 
Lokeren, waste level reductions continue to be realised. 
• In Slovakia we were able to recycle 98.5% of waste, for internal 
use.
• A post condensation unit, commissioned in October 2015, has 
resulted in less polymer waste.
• Use of thin films on packaging machines has reduced foil waste. 
• Single use pallets, used for product deliveries between Arnhem 
and Obernburg, are being replaced by re-usable pallets, which 
can also be used for customer deliveries.
• Dundee has achieved an improvement in waste sent to landfill. 
• A Manufacturing Excellence initiative, launched in 2015, seeks 
to improve efficiencies and process improvements to achieve 
improved yields from raw materials. 
Water
Water usage is not a significant environmental impact for the 
Group due to the nature of our manufacturing operations. 
However, water usage is tracked and monitored and water 
management activities are regularly reviewed. As an example, in 
2015, our Lokeren site has stopped using ground water 
(1000m³/year) due to renewal of a cooling installation with a 
closed water circuit.  4 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
MANAGEMENT
OF HEALTH & SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees, and others who may be 
affected by our operations, remains a key priority. Our focus on 
health and safety has continued this year as we continue to aim for 
improvement both in our health and safety performance and 
management. 
The Group-wide health and safety strategy remains in place and 
good progress has again been made in implementing it this year, 
supporting both our “Zero Accident Goal” and “Best in Class” 
aspirations, with the aim of embedding a strong and proactive 
health and safety culture across our business. The cornerstones of 
the strategy are improvement to visible leadership, employee 
engagement, risk-based management, accountability and health 
and safety competence, with a number of initiatives either started 
this year or fully implemented. These include:
• in addition to the inclusion of Human Resources and 
Engineering & Technology representation on the Group HSE 
Committee this year, we will now seek to introduce Logistics 
representation in 2016. This committee is key to ensuring we 
have good employee engagement, as well as striking the correct 
balance between corporate and operational risk management;
• we held our third successful global health and safety week this 
year, involving all sites and focusing on employee health;
• further development of our HSE resourcing continued this year, 
in order to support our ambitious HSE improvement 
programme. We have reviewed our structure to ensure it is 
right-sized and fit for the new Low & Bonar organisational 
structure; 
• there has continued to be strong Board and executive 
management support for our HSE programmes, with operating 
and capital expenditure being approved to deliver changes;
• the Global Improvement Programmes on hand injuries, manual 
handling and slip/trip/fall accidents, which historically account 
for around 80% of all of our accidents, remain in place, and we 
have seen a reduction of approximately 33% in the first aid 
incident rate this year, against a backdrop of encouragement to 
report even the most minor accidents;
• the further embedding of a broader range of health and safety 
metrics has enabled us to better understand our risk 
improvement opportunities. The proactive “Near Miss” 
category has now been fully integrated, and last year has led to 
approximately 1,000 near miss reports being submitted, an 
approximate 32% increase over last year. This information 
allows us to improve our focus on accident and incident 
avoidance whilst helping us to move towards our ambition of 
implementing a behaviour-based safety programme across the 
group;
Corporate & social responsibility 
continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
4 9
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
• a global data sharing platform for health and safety information 
has been implemented for our global HSE community;
• an improved method for registering and reporting HSE incidents 
has been developed during 2015 and will be rolled out in the 
early part of 2016;
• a new process for introducing global health and safety 
standards was introduced in 2014, mandatory across all Group 
companies, with safety standards issued covering our health 
and safety management system, the notification, reporting and 
investigation of accidents and incidents, the safe loading and 
unloading of road transport vehicles and thermographic 
examination of electrical equipment, and a prioritised list of 
new standards to be developed over the coming years has been 
developed; and
• our global HSE community, involving all plant managers and 
HSE professionals, which facilitates best practice exchange and 
is a key forum for professional development, continues to meet. 
Health and safety performance
In 2014, we announced a move away from setting targets and 
measuring health and safety performance based on the number of 
work-related accidents that resulted in more than three days’ 
absence from work per 100,000 employees. We reported then that 
we would move to a new, more onerous, monitoring and target 
setting process, based on the number of work related accidents 
that involved the loss of any time from work (LTAs) per 100,000 
employees. Thus, whilst our goal remains zero accidents, we set a 
new LTA interim incident rate target of 400, to be reached over 
two years, a target of a further 60% improvement in the LTA 
incidence rate. We are pleased, however, to confirm that we 
achieved an LTA incidence rate of 380 in 2015, a reduction of 62% 
in one year, and will now set a new interim target incidence rate of 
200 for 2016.
It is now more difficult to accurately benchmark our health and 
safety performance, but we note that the LTA incidence rate for 
LTAs with more than three days lost (a less onerous measure) 
across all industry sectors in the EU 28 member states in 2012 (the 
latest year for which information is available) was 1,702. See http:// 
ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Accidents_at_
work_statistics.
Two occupational ill health incidents were reported this year, both 
related to hearing threshold shifts (loss) in the US and these events 
have been fully investigated.
Efforts to reduce the number of fire incidents in the business have 
been supported by fire safety reviews carried out at Hückelhoven, 
Fulda, Lomnice and Asheville. Systems, procedures and hardware 
changes/upgrades identified have been prioritised for 2016 and 
capital expenditure has been scheduled to realise improvements 
over the next four years. The audit programme will be rolled out 
across all sites in 2016.
We remain mindful that there is still much room for improvement, 
and that accident statistics continue to reveal only part of the story 
of successful health and safety management, and that health and 
safety culture is key. 
As a result of a survey conducted in 2014, one of the key outcomes 
was a clear need to carry out further training for all those with 
management or supervisory roles within our operational teams, 
based on the real day-to-day risks that exist within our business.  
To that end, a health and safety masterclass, covering topics from 
machinery safety through to electric hazards, was delivered across 
the Group in the first part of 2015.
We continue to maintain our strong working relationship with our 
insurance risk surveyors, insurance brokers and underwriters during 
the year, and recognise the important role played by these 
partners. Risk improvement recommendations made by risk 
surveyors as a result of site visits continue to provide valuable 
information to support risk improvement activities. New brokers 
were appointed last year and are supporting us in enhancing our 
risk management approach. 5 0
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
HUMAN RIGHTS & 
gender diversity
Human rights
As we do not believe it is necessary for an 
understanding of the development, performance 
or position of the Company’s business, this 
document does not contain detailed information 
about human rights issues or the Company’s 
policies in relation to those matters. However, the 
Company does wish to record its commitment to 
respecting the human rights of its employees and 
its commitment to operating in accordance with 
its legal obligations. Other parts of this report 
refer to its policies with regard to diversity 
amongst its workforce and our commitment to 
corporate social responsibility.
Gender diversity
The Board is mindful, in the context of the current 
focus on the value of gender diversity, of the 
Company’s approach to the diversity of its 
management and of the representation of women 
in senior roles. We have one female Director and, 
during the process for appointment of an additional 
Non-Executive Director in 2015, a number of female 
candidates were considered. We have not set a 
specific target for the number of female members 
of the Board and will appoint the best candidate 
available to us for any role. However, in setting the 
criteria for selection of candidates, the Group is 
conscious that it is possible to discourage 
inadvertently the successful candidacy of women 
and we will bear this in mind for all future 
appointments. We have requested of our search 
consultants to provide female candidates for any 
future roles.
The Group has a diversity policy under which Low 
& Bonar is committed to: ensuring that everyone 
should have the same opportunities for 
employment and promotion based on their ability, 
qualifications and suitability for the work in 
question; seeking excellence in our employees 
through the implementation of recruitment, 
incentivisation, performance review, development 
and promotion processes that are fair to all; and 
capitalising on the added value that diversity 
brings. We consider discrimination in the 
workplace on the basis of age, gender, disability, 
ethnic origin, nationality, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment, religion or belief, marital status and 
pregnancy and maternity to be unacceptable.
The following table sets out a breakdown by 
gender showing at 30 November 2015 (i) the 
number of persons who were Directors of the 
Company; (ii) the number of persons who were 
senior managers of the Group (other than persons 
falling within sub-paragraph (i)); and (iii) the number 
of persons who were employees of the Group.
Number  
of men %
Number  
of 
women %
Directors 6 86% 1 14%
Senior 
managers
1
8 100% 0 0%
Employees
2
1,690 76% 545 24%
1 The Group has an Executive Leadership Team, comprised of 
senior managers leading each Global Business Unit and 
Group Function.
2 Employees of its consolidated subsidiaries, excluding Bonar 
Natpet LLC.
Employee involvement
The Group’s overall policy is to keep employees 
informed on matters of concern to them and to 
encourage employee involvement. This policy is 
implemented in a wide variety of ways, which are 
reported on by the Group’s businesses, including 
the publication of a company newsletter, “Your 
Low & Bonar”, at least twice a year, and regular 
meetings with employees’ representatives, 
including a European Works Council. The Group’s 
employees are invited to participate in sharesave 
plans to encourage equity ownership.
Disabled employees
The Group has a policy for giving full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment 
made by disabled persons, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities, for continuing 
the employment of, and for arranging 
appropriate training for, employees who have 
become disabled persons during the period when 
they were employed by the Group and for their 
training, career development and promotion.
Corporate & social responsibility 
continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
51
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
COMMUNITIES  
& CHARITIES
Our relationship with the communities in which 
we operate is important to both our long-term 
financial and social success, and efforts have 
again been ongoing this year to increase our 
outreach programmes. Some examples of these 
efforts are as follows:
• In Hungary, we gave donations to a 
foundation to support ill children, and a 
church to support childrens’ summer camps; 
• In Belgium, monies raised from a step contest 
(as part of an internal Health & Safety Week), 
were donated to ‘Music for Life’, an 
organisation that supports more than 1,000 
charities and communities;
• In the UK, monies raised from the ‘West 
Highland Charity Walk’, were donated to 
‘Meningitis Now’ and synthetic turf surfaces 
were donated for use throughout the 
‘Homeless World Cup’;
• In the US, a combination of employee pledges 
and corporate donations were made to the 
Angel Tree and United Way charities, 
supporting the local community; and
• In Slovakia, donations were made to sponsor 
a local football team and to help purchase 
sports equipment for a local elementary 
school. 52
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Board of  
Directors
MARTIN FLOWER
Chairman (69)
BRETT SIMPSON
Group Chief Executive (51)
MIKE HOLT
Chief Financial Officer (55)
STEVE HANNAM
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director (66)
KEVIN MATTHEWS
Non-Executive Director (52)
TRUDY SCHOOLENBERG
Non-Executive Director (57)
JOHN SHELDRICK
Non-Executive Director (66)
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD:
January 2007 and appointed 
Chairman June 2010.
August 2014. November 2010. September 2002. April 2015. May 2013. October 2011.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP:
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and member of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee and the Risk 
Oversight Committee.
Chairman of the Risk Oversight 
Committee.
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of 
the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
EXPERIENCE:
Previously Chief Executive of 
Coats plc, a company in which 
he spent his entire executive 
career having joined in 1968. 
Former Chairman of Croda 
International Plc, Deputy 
Chairman of Severn Trent Plc, 
Chairman of Alpha Group plc 
and a non-executive director 
of Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc.
Previously Chief Executive 
Officer of Belgium-based LBC 
Tank Terminals Group from 
2009 to 2014. During his 
earlier career, he worked with 
the Dow Chemical Company 
for 23 years in a variety of 
senior engineering, 
operational, commercial and 
business management roles in 
Australia, the USA, Hong 
Kong, Switzerland and China.
A chartered accountant, he 
was previously Group Finance 
Director of Vp plc for six years 
and, prior to that, held a 
number of senior financial 
positions with Rolls-Royce 
Group plc in the UK, the USA 
and Hong Kong.
Previously Group Chief 
Executive of BTP Chemicals 
plc, former non-executive 
director with Clariant AG, 
Chairman of Aviagen 
International Inc., non-
executive director of AZ 
Electronic Materials Services 
Limited and Chairman of 
Devro plc.
Former Chief Executive Officer 
of Isogenica Limited and 
non-executive director of 
Elementis PLC.
Former Vice-president of 
Global Research and 
Development at Wärtsilä Oy, 
having previously worked  
for 21 years for Royal Dutch 
Shell plc.
Group Finance Director of 
Johnson Matthey Plc until his 
retirement in 2009. Former 
non-executive director of  
GKN plc and API Group Plc.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS:
None. None. Non-executive Director of 
Asian Total Return Investment 
Company PLC.
Trustee and treasurer of Target  
Ovarian Cancer.
Non-executive director of 
McBride plc.
Chief Executive Officer of 
Revolymer plc.
Director of Integrated Supply 
Chain and RD&I for AKZO 
Nobel’s Paints Division.
Non-executive director of 
COVA and of Spirax-Sarco 
Engineering Plc.
Non-executive director of 
Fenner PLC. Financial Statements
5 3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Governance Strategic Report
MARTIN FLOWER
Chairman (69)
BRETT SIMPSON
Group Chief Executive (51)
MIKE HOLT
Chief Financial Officer (55)
STEVE HANNAM
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director (66)
KEVIN MATTHEWS
Non-Executive Director (52)
TRUDY SCHOOLENBERG
Non-Executive Director (57)
JOHN SHELDRICK
Non-Executive Director (66)
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD:
January 2007 and appointed 
Chairman June 2010.
August 2014. November 2010. September 2002. April 2015. May 2013. October 2011.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP:
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and member of 
the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee and the Risk 
Oversight Committee.
Chairman of the Risk Oversight 
Committee.
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of 
the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
EXPERIENCE:
Previously Chief Executive of 
Coats plc, a company in which 
he spent his entire executive 
career having joined in 1968. 
Former Chairman of Croda 
International Plc, Deputy 
Chairman of Severn Trent Plc, 
Chairman of Alpha Group plc 
and a non-executive director 
of Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc.
Previously Chief Executive 
Officer of Belgium-based LBC 
Tank Terminals Group from 
2009 to 2014. During his 
earlier career, he worked with 
the Dow Chemical Company 
for 23 years in a variety of 
senior engineering, 
operational, commercial and 
business management roles in 
Australia, the USA, Hong 
Kong, Switzerland and China.
A chartered accountant, he 
was previously Group Finance 
Director of Vp plc for six years 
and, prior to that, held a 
number of senior financial 
positions with Rolls-Royce 
Group plc in the UK, the USA 
and Hong Kong.
Previously Group Chief 
Executive of BTP Chemicals 
plc, former non-executive 
director with Clariant AG, 
Chairman of Aviagen 
International Inc., non-
executive director of AZ 
Electronic Materials Services 
Limited and Chairman of 
Devro plc.
Former Chief Executive Officer 
of Isogenica Limited and 
non-executive director of 
Elementis PLC.
Former Vice-president of 
Global Research and 
Development at Wärtsilä Oy, 
having previously worked  
for 21 years for Royal Dutch 
Shell plc.
Group Finance Director of 
Johnson Matthey Plc until his 
retirement in 2009. Former 
non-executive director of  
GKN plc and API Group Plc.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS:
None. None. Non-executive Director of 
Asian Total Return Investment 
Company PLC.
Trustee and treasurer of Target  
Ovarian Cancer.
Non-executive director of 
McBride plc.
Chief Executive Officer of 
Revolymer plc.
Director of Integrated Supply 
Chain and RD&I for AKZO 
Nobel’s Paints Division.
Non-executive director of 
COVA and of Spirax-Sarco 
Engineering Plc.
Non-executive director of 
Fenner PLC. 54
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
corporate GOVERNANCE
This report sets out the work and operation of the Board and the framework of 
governance in place.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to applying 
the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”) published by the FRC. I am pleased to confirm compliance throughout the year 
with the Code except in the following respect: Provision D.2.2 of the Code requires that 
the Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting the 
remuneration of the Chairman. At Low & Bonar, the remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Board based on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. 
This gives full transparency and allows the views of the Executive Directors to be taken  
into account.
The Board
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors, which provides entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Group and is ultimately responsible for its long-term success. Our main 
objectives are to create value for shareholders, to set the Group’s strategic objectives, to 
ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are made available to enable it to 
meet those objectives and to review executive management performance, all within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and 
managed. The Board also sets the Group’s values and standards and ensures that its 
obligations to shareholders and others are understood and met.
We have a formal schedule of reserved powers which we retain for Board decision-making 
on a range of key issues, including the formulation of Group strategy, the approval of the 
annual budget, the approval of reported financial statements and dividends, the approval 
of acquisitions, divestments and significant items of capital expenditure and the Group’s 
risk management strategy.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive
My role as Chairman and that of the Group Chief Executive, Brett Simpson, are separate 
and are clearly defined and documented. I am responsible for leading the Board and the 
Group Chief Executive is responsible for leadership of the business and implementation  
of strategy.
Directors and Directors’ independence
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-
Executive Directors and two Executive Directors. The names of the Directors, together with 
their biographical details, are set out on pages 52 and 53. In determining the membership 
of the Board, we are mindful that it should be of sufficient size that the requirements of 
the business can be met and that changes to its composition and that of the committees 
can be managed without undue disruption, but should not be so large as to be unwieldy. I 
believe our Board has the appropriate balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
and that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate decision making. 
Martin Flower
Non-Executive Chairman
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Corporate Governance Strategic Report
55
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
I am also concerned to ensure that the Board and its committees 
should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Group to enable them to 
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. 
During the year, following a selection process more fully described 
in the Nomination Committee report on page 60, Kevin Matthews 
was appointed a Non-Executive Director.
The independent Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively 
and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, 
independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Board’s 
deliberations. All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and Directors may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
At the time of my appointment as Chairman in June 2010, I was 
considered by the Board to be independent. In accordance with the 
Code, the continuing test of independence is no longer necessary.
The Board considers that each of the other Non-Executive Directors 
is independent in character and judgement and we continue to 
monitor whether there are relationships or circumstances which are 
likely to affect, or could appear to affect, a Director’s judgement. 
Although he has served on the Board for over thirteen years, we 
continue to view Steve Hannam as independent in character and 
judgement. He has relevant experience in both executive and 
non-executive roles and continues to offer a regular and 
substantive challenge to the Executive Directors on their strategy 
for and management of the business. Given his long tenure, his 
continued membership of the Board is considered rigorously and, 
in accordance with the Code, he is required to submit himself for 
re-election to the Board annually. We continue to value his 
contribution and the continuity he brings. 
As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, he is available to 
address any shareholder concerns over governance and other issues 
which cannot be resolved through the usual channels of 
communication with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive or 
the Chief Financial Officer. He acts as a sounding board for the 
Chairman, is available to advise and counsel all Board colleagues 
and would also deputise for the Chairman in his absence.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors 
present from time to time.
Professional development and performance evaluation
A personal induction programme is provided for each newly 
appointed Director, depending on the experience and needs of the 
individual, including information about the Group and the role of 
the Board and its committees. This is supplemented by visits to key 
locations and meetings with key senior executives. Directors are 
encouraged to continually update their skills and their knowledge 
of and familiarity with the Group required to fulfill their role both 
on the Board and its committees. All Directors are kept informed of 
changes in relevant legislation and regulations and changing 
financial and commercial risks with assistance from the Company’s 
advisers where appropriate. I encourage Directors to avail 
themselves of opportunities to meet our major shareholders.
I have reviewed the contribution of individual Directors, in 
conjunction with my colleagues as appropriate, to reassure myself 
and the Board that each Director continues to contribute effectively 
and to demonstrate commitment to the role (including the ability 
to devote sufficient time for Board and committee meetings and 
any other duties). The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
chairs an annual meeting of the Non-Executive Directors to 
appraise my performance, taking into account the views of the 
Executive Directors, and the outcome of those discussions is 
conveyed to me by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board has established a process, led by me, for the annual 
evaluation of the performance of the Board and its principal 
committees by use of a questionnaire based on the requirements 
of the Code. Again this year, we considered the merits of using 
external assistance in connection with the evaluation but 
determined that it was not necessary to do so given the size of the 
Board, the good working practices and relationships which we 
have established over the years and the open and constructive way 
in which Directors express their views in relation to the operation 
of the Board on an ongoing basis.
Information and meetings
The full Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year. The 
attendance details of the meetings of the Board and its main 
committees are set out below:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Martin Flower 8/8 – 4/4 2/2
Brett Simpson 8/8 – – 2/2
Mike Holt 8/8 – – –
Steve Hannam 7/8 3/3 4/4 1/2
Kevin Matthews 5/5 2/2 2/2 1/1
Trudy Schoolenberg 8/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
John Sheldrick 7/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
Kevin Matthews joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
Steve Hannam and John Sheldrick were each unable to attend one board meeting due 
to illness. Steve Hannam did not attend the Nomination Committee meeting at which 
the renewal of his appointment was discussed.
Information is supplied in advance of each meeting with an agenda 
and papers covering the financial and operating performance of the 
Group’s businesses and other matters to be considered at the 
meeting. It is my goal to ensure that the information available to the 
Board is accurate, timely and clear. Executive management reports on 
a continuing basis against the Group’s budget (set at the start of the 
financial year) and rolling monthly annual forecasts. The Board also 
considers other key developments, such as the implementation of 
major projects. I encourage the Non-Executive Directors to seek 
clarification and amplification of information where necessary.
I set the agenda in discussion with executive management and the 
Company Secretary and ensure that adequate time is available for 
discussion of all agenda items. The papers are supplemented by 
information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time. 
Other members of senior management attend the Board meetings to 
present to the Board on the strategy for and performance of 
businesses within the Group. Additionally, the Board meets in separate 
sessions to consider and approve the strategy for the Group so that 
adequate time can be given to this vital aspect of its role away from 
the normal business of routine Board meetings. 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 5 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
The Board meets in more informal surroundings several times a 
year to discuss topics of interest and relevance to the Group and 
our external advisers are often invited to these sessions to offer 
their counsel.
I also encourage the Board to establish closer links with the 
Group’s subsidiaries and their key executive management by 
visiting the Group’s facilities and, in 2015, Board meetings were 
held at the Group’s manufacturing facilities in Belgium and The 
Netherlands. The scheduled Board meetings concentrate on 
strategy, financial and business performance. The Non-Executive 
Directors are encouraged to meet with executive management to 
ensure constructive relations between them and to continue to 
promote a culture of openness and debate and to improve the 
effectiveness of the contribution of our Non-Executive Directors as 
I believe that, to function effectively, all Directors need appropriate 
knowledge of the Group and access to its operations and staff.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on 
governance matters and Directors, especially Non-Executive 
Directors, have access to independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense where we judge it necessary to discharge our 
responsibilities as Directors. This includes the Group’s corporate 
finance, insurance, public relations, legal and pensions advisers 
attending Board meetings from time to time.
Conflicts
Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) 
to avoid a situation in which they have or can have a direct or 
indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the 
interests of the company. The Act allows directors of public 
companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the 
Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect and the 
Company’s Articles of Association include such provisions.  
The Board considers each Director’s conflicts or potential conflicts 
of interest. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter  
under consideration take the relevant decision. In addition,  
the Board considers each conflict situation separately on its 
particular facts; considers the conflict situation in conjunction  
with the rest of a Director’s duties under the Act; keeps records 
and minutes of authorisations granted by Directors and the scope 
of any approvals given; and regularly reviews conflict authorisations 
(at least annually). In addition, the Directors are able to impose 
limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this  
is appropriate.
Committees
In accordance with the Code, the Board has established Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, membership of which 
is set out in each committee report. All of the committees have 
written terms of reference, which have been approved by the 
Board and are available on the Company’s website or on request 
from the Company Secretary. The Board has also established a Risk 
Oversight Committee (which itself has delegated authority to 
committees to deal with health and safety and information 
security) the operation of which is described in more detail on 
pages 36 to 41.
The Board recognises the value of ensuring that committee 
membership is refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on 
particular individuals in deciding chairmanship and membership of 
committees. Membership of our committees has been refreshed 
over the last few years and all of the main committees have 
appointed new chairmen since July 2010. Kevin Matthews, who 
was appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2015, has joined 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Relations with shareholders
I work to ensure that there is a dialogue with shareholders based 
on the mutual understanding of objectives. The Board as a whole 
has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with 
shareholders takes place. Whilst recognising that most shareholder 
contact is with the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer, I ensure that all Directors are made aware of major 
shareholders’ issues and concerns in whatever ways are most 
practical and efficient. This includes meeting directly with our 
brokers and public relations advisers and receiving written reports 
from them, as well as through direct meetings with shareholders. 
The Board is also given copies of the reports on the Group written 
by analysts. It is also our practice to consider feedback from 
shareholders following results presentations. Our Non-Executive 
Directors have opportunities to meet with shareholders on request 
and, in 2016, I will again encourage them to attend results 
presentations and investor days so that they have an opportunity 
to meet with key stakeholders in person.
The Company maintains good communications with its 
shareholders through its Half Year and Annual Reports and 
through information posted on its website. The Company holds 
regular meetings throughout the year with major shareholders, 
analysts and the financial press, in particular following the 
announcements of its half year and full year results. Visits for 
analysts and large shareholders are also arranged from time to 
time to operating units.
The Company’s Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity 
to communicate with private investors. Shareholders attending the 
Annual General Meeting are invited to ask questions and to meet 
with the Directors informally after the meeting. In addition to 
myself, as Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee,  
the chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees are 
available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the Annual 
General Meeting.
Martin Flower
Non-Executive Chairman
On behalf of the Board of Directors
2 February 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
5 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
AUDIT COMMittee report
Audit Committee report
The responsibilities and work carried out by the Audit Committee in the year under review 
are set out in the following report.
Composition and governance
All the Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Company’s Chairman, serve on 
the Committee and we welcome Kevin Matthews to the Committee having joined the 
Board in April 2015. Collectively, they have the skills and experience required to fully 
discharge their duties. John Sheldrick meets the requirements of recent and relevant 
financial experience having been Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey Plc from 
1995 until his retirement in 2009.
The Company Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also generally 
join at least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any member, the 
Company’s external auditor or internal audit. The Audit Committee meets privately with 
the external auditor and internal audit at least once a year. Both internal audit and the 
external auditor have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside of formal 
Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year. The primary role of the 
Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the 
financial reporting and audit process and the maintenance of sound internal control and 
risk management systems. It is responsible for monitoring and reviewing:
• the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any formal announcements 
relating to its financial performance; 
• the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk management 
systems; 
• the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function; 
• the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the 
Board on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor; 
• policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services; and 
• taking specific responsibility for certain key areas of risk management to support the 
Board’s role in overseeing an enterprise-wide approach to risk identification, 
management and mitigation. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s website.
The Audit Committee is entitled to obtain, at the expense of the Company, such external 
advice as it sees fit on any matters falling within its terms of reference.
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee members
John Sheldrick (Chairman) 
Steve Hannam
Kevin Matthews
Trudy Schoolenberg
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Audit Committee Report 5 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
AUDIT COMMittee report continued
Activities in 2015
The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year ended 30 November 2015. The meetings of the Committee coincided with 
key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle. The external auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Group’s internal audit function were 
represented at all of the meetings.
The Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing the Group’s draft financial statements and half year results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external 
auditor’s detailed reports thereon and also reporting to the Board the significant issues that the Committee considered in relation to 
the financial statements and how those issues were addressed, having regard to matters communicated to it by the external auditor; 
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies; 
• reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Group’s external auditor in accordance with the 
policy it has adopted; 
• reviewing the external auditor’s plan for the audit of the Group’s accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work, key risks 
on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee; 
• reviewing an annual report on the Group’s system of internal control and its effectiveness and reporting to the Board on the results of 
the review; 
• assisting the Board with overseeing an enterprise-wide approach to risk identification, management and mitigation; 
• receiving regular reports from the Group internal audit function following operational audits; 
• reviewing the performance and effectiveness of internal and external audit; and 
• reviewing the arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters 
of financial reporting or other matters. 
Financial reporting and significant areas of judgement
The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters in respect of the Company’s half-year and annual 
results statements and the Annual Report prior to their consideration by the Board. Reports highlighting key accounting matters and 
significant judgements were also received from KPMG LLP in respect of the year-end statements and discussed by the Committee. In 
particular, these included the significant judgement area of the impairment of goodwill:
Area of judgement Detail Company response
Valuation of goodwill, 
acquired intangible 
assets and investment 
in joint ventures.
Carrying amounts are reviewed at 
least annually by conducting an 
impairment review which is based 
on the net present value of 
projected cash flows for each cash 
generating unit (“CGU”). Details of 
assumptions used are provided in 
Note 11 to the Group financial 
statements on page 104 to 105 
and Note 15 on page 107.
The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions for the 
calculation of the value in use of the CGUs, in particular the achievability of 
long-term financial forecasts and macro-economic projections. Following the 
reviews during the year, an impairment charge of £8.2m, comprising a 
write-off of the carrying value of the investment in our Saudi Arabian joint 
venture of £3.0m and our shareholder loan to it of £5.2m, has been charged 
to non-recurring items in the income statement. The significant fall in oil 
prices together with the Saudi conflict with Yemen has led to a dramatic 
reduction in regional spend on infrastructure projects which is not expected 
to recover in the foreseeable future. As a result, there is considerable 
over-capacity within the region.
A further area of judgement arose on the reallocation of goodwill between 
the CGUs that resulted from the Group’s reorganisation in May 2015. 
Goodwill previously reported within the Bonar CGU was reallocated to the 
Civil Engineering, Interior & Transportation and Building & Industrial CGUs 
based on where the acquired business now resides. All CGUs except Civil 
Engineering performed satisfactorily in 2015 and their recoverable amounts 
show significant headroom compared to their carrying value when reasonably 
likely changes are made to key assumptions.
Civil Engineering continued to be impacted by weak European demand and 
production inefficiencies at one of its manufacturing sites in Belgium. The 
2016 budget and five-year plan for Civil Engineering, which have been used 
in preparing the cash flow projections in the impairment review, assume that 
near-term demand levels will remain subdued while performance 
improvements will be realised through capital and operational investments.
The Committee discussed the assumptions underlying the cash flow 
projections with both management and KPMG LLP and also considered the 
appropriateness of the discount rates used. Following discussion on 
headroom and sensitivity, the Committee was satisfied that the carrying 
amount of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and investment in joint 
ventures after the impairment charge recognised in the year, was appropriate.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
59
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Analysis to support the going concern statement on page 78 
was also reviewed, with the Committee receiving reports from 
management and the external auditor on this matter.  
The Committee also received reports from management on the 
viability statement on page 78.
Following consideration of the matters presented to it and 
discussion with both management and KPMG LLP, the Committee 
was satisfied that the significant judgements made were justified 
and that the financial reporting disclosures made were appropriate.
Whistleblowing
Low & Bonar operates a Group-wide international telephone 
hotline to support whistleblowing. The hotline is facilitated by 
Expolink, an independent third party with a market-leading 
reputation in the provision of such services. The hotline facilitates 
arrangements whereby employees can make confidential 
disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing, in 
compliance with local laws and regulations in the relevant 
jurisdiction. Any matters so reported are investigated by 
management as appropriate considering the nature of the issues 
involved and can, where relevant and appropriate, be reported to 
the Audit Committee. A report summarising all disclosures made 
during the period is considered by the Audit Committee annually.
External auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an 
appropriate relationship between the Group and the external 
auditor is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and 
fees. It has developed and implemented a policy on the supply of 
non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure their continued 
objectivity and independence. The Committee is satisfied that the 
provision by KPMG LLP of non-audit services currently provided 
does not impair their independence or objectivity. The Audit 
Committee has approved the range of services that may be 
provided by the external auditor. These include taxation compliance 
and consulting services, transaction due diligence and accountancy 
assistance on projects. Subject to approved authorisation limits, 
the services require prior authorisation from either the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full 
Audit Committee. During the year, non-audit fees amounting to 
£0.2m were incurred, all of which were for corporate tax 
consultancy (£0.1m) and compliance services (£0.1m).  
The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services 
supplied by KPMG LLP during the year were compliance related  
or related principally to foreign advisory work that required a 
detailed understanding of the Group and which did not impair 
their independence.
The Committee received and reviewed written confirmation from 
the external auditors on all relationships that, in their judgement, 
may bear on their independence. The external auditors have also 
confirmed that they consider themselves independent within the 
meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements.
The current overall tenure of the external auditor, KPMG LLP (and 
its predecessor KPMG Audit PLC), dates from 1975, although a 
re-tender exercise was conducted in 2002 and a limited review was 
conducted in 2008. Any decision to open the external audit to 
tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee. 
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Company’s 
current choice of external auditor. In 2015, a new lead partner  
was appointed.
In April 2014 the European Union published its revised Audit 
Directive making rotation of external audit firms mandatory for 
premium listed companies such as Low & Bonar. Individual member 
states have some discretion in the implementation of this Directive. 
In the UK it is expected that premium listed companies will be 
required to put the audit out to tender at least every ten years and 
rotate the auditors at least every twenty years. Under the transitional 
arrangements this is expected to mean that Low & Bonar will need 
to have replaced KPMG as its external auditor by 2020.
In the light of this new legislation the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that the audit should be put out to 
tender within the next three years once the group’s new ERP 
(Enterprise Resource Planning) system is operational. KPMG will not 
be invited to re-tender given the requirement to replace them as 
external auditor by 2020.
The performance and effectiveness of the external auditor were 
formally reviewed by the Committee taking into account the views 
of Directors and senior management on such matters as 
independence, objectivity, proficiency, resourcing and audit 
strategy and planning. The Committee concluded that the 
performance of the external auditor remained satisfactory 
following the review. The performance of the external auditor will 
continue to be reviewed annually. The Committee has 
recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP should be re-appointed 
as the Company’s external auditor for the next financial year. 
Following this recommendation, the Board is proposing the 
re-appointment of the external auditor to shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Internal audit
During the year, the Committee reviewed the results of audits 
undertaken by internal audit and management responses,  
including the implementation of any recommendations made.  
The Committee considered and approved the 2015 internal  
audit programme. The effectiveness of internal audit was  
formally reviewed. The Company has co-sourced its internal audit 
function with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) since 2014  
and the PwC partner-in-charge is invited to attend Audit 
Committee meetings.
John Sheldrick
Chairman, Audit Committee  
2 February 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 6 0
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Nomination COMMittee report
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and for making recommendations to the Board with regard to 
any changes, including recommending candidates for appointment as both Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors. Appointments are discussed fully before a proposal is made to 
the Board and, as Chairman of the Committee, I am mindful that there should be a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors. The selection 
criteria are agreed by me in conjunction with my colleagues and we make use of 
independent recruitment consultants and the final appointment rests with the full Board.
As part of its review of non-executive succession in 2014, the Committee had identified 
the need for the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director in 2015 and discussed the 
appropriate role specification and time commitment expected. It was agreed that this 
should include the requirement for recent experience in an international Business To 
Business manufacturing business. An independent consultant, Korn Ferry, was appointed 
to conduct the search and a long-list of names was developed by them in consultation 
with me. A short-list of candidates was developed, including a number of female 
candidates, and the best candidates for the role were interviewed by myself and the Group 
Chief Executive and our favoured candidates were also seen by all members of the Board. 
This process culminated in the appointment of Kevin Matthews as a Non-Executive 
Director in April 2015. Kevin will succeed Steve Hannam as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee after the Annual General Meeting.
The Board recognises that diversity, including gender diversity, is important to the Group’s 
long term success and the Nomination Committee considers this when recommending 
appointments to the Board. 
The Nomination Committee also reviews the training and development needs for  
each Director.
Martin Flower
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
2 February 2016
Martin Flower
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee members
Martin Flower (Chairman)
Steve Hannam
Kevin Matthews
Trudy Schoolenberg
John Sheldrick
Brett Simpson
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Nomination Committee 
Report Strategic Report
6 1
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
directors’ remuneration report
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 
November 2015. All the Non-Executive Directors serve on the Remuneration Committee 
and we welcome Kevin Matthews to the Committee having joined the Board in April 2015. 
Kevin will succeed me as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after the Annual 
General Meeting. Our Remuneration Policy was approved at our AGM in 2014 and no 
changes are proposed to the Policy or to the way in which it will be implemented for the 
year ending 30 November 2016. For reference, a summary of the Policy is reproduced on 
pages 62 to 67.
The Annual Remuneration Report (set out on pages 68 to 75) describes how the Policy has 
been implemented over the year to 30 November 2015 and how we intend to implement 
the Policy for the year ahead. 
As described in the Chairman’s statement, the Group has made good progress in the year 
despite difficult markets in some areas. Accordingly, financial targets have been met 
sufficiently for Executive Directors to receive bonus payments equating to 60% of base 
salary for the year ended 30 November 2015. As explained in more detail later in the 
report, the bonus payments are being made for achieving profit and return on capital 
employed targets. 
Despite the improved performance in 2015, the results in preceding years have affected 
the performance targets for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and, as a 
result, there will be no vesting of shares under the awards made in 2013 on the EPS 
performance condition (the period for which ended with the 2015 financial year).
In order to incentivise management, we will be making further LTIP awards to the 
Executive Directors in line with our remuneration policy. Awards for the current year  
will therefore be at 125% of salary and linked to EPS and total shareholder return 
performance targets.
The salaries for the Executive Directors and fees payable to Non-Executive Directors were 
reviewed in December 2015. Modest increases, below 3%, were awarded to the Executive 
Directors and there will be no change to the fees payable to the Chairman or our Non-
Executive Directors in 2016.
The Committee does not consider that the current arrangements will encourage undue 
risk-taking given the clear long-term focus in our policy. The operation of the 2013 LTIP 
will continue to ensure that a substantial proportion of pay is earned based on long-term 
performance, with the Company’s share ownership guidelines ensuring further long-term 
alignment between our executive team and shareholders. The clawback provisions in the 
incentive schemes for Executive Directors provide a further safeguard to shareholders in 
the event of a misstatement in results.
Steve Hannam
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
2 February 2016
Steve Hannam
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee members
Steve Hannam (Chairman)
Martin Flower
Kevin Matthews
Trudy Schoolenberg
John Sheldrick
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report 62
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
remuneration policy
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The summary of the Remuneration Policy which follows is an extract from the 2013 Annual Report and sets out the key parts of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved at the Annual General Meeting held on 25 March 2014 and which has been effective from that 
date for all payments made to directors. The Policy is reproduced here, in an abridged form, for ease of reference to provide transparency 
and clarity. The full text of the policy, as approved by shareholders, is available in the 2013 Annual Report, which can be viewed on the 
Company’s website.
Overview of the remuneration policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is to ensure that the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executives properly reflects their 
duties and responsibilities and is sufficient to recruit, retain and motivate high-quality executive talent, taking into account their 
geographical location and the territories which their responsibilities cover, whilst aligning the interests of senior executives as closely as 
possible with the interests of shareholders. The remuneration of the Executive Directors has been structured to provide a significant 
performance-related element linked to the achievement of stretching performance targets. The Committee keeps the Company’s 
remuneration policy under review to ensure that an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay is maintained.
More generally, the Committee also takes into account the principles of sound risk management when setting pay and takes action to 
satisfy itself that the remuneration structure at Low & Bonar does not encourage undue risk.
There are three main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors, and the senior executive population:
1. Fixed pay, comprising base salary, pension scheme contributions and other benefits; 
2. Annual performance-related remuneration; and 
3. Long-term performance-related remuneration in the form of share awards.
The policies relating to each of the constituent parts of these main components of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages are 
summarised in the table below:
Salary
Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive fixed remuneration that will attract, retain and motivate high-quality 
key employees and reflect their experience, duties and geographical location.
Operation Reviewed annually. 
Benchmarked periodically against relevant market comparators as appropriate, including 
companies of a similar international reach and complexity.
Individual pay levels determined by reference to performance, skills and experience in post.
Consideration given to the pay levels in the country in which the Executive Director lives and 
works and the wider salary increases across the Group more generally.
Maximum opportunity Salary levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the Remuneration 
Policy operates from the Effective Date. 
During this time, salaries may be increased each year. The Committee will be guided by 
general conditions (such as the level of inflation) in the country in which the Director lives, the 
salary increase budget set within that country for the Group and the salary budget across the 
workforce generally, as well as the overall financial performance of the Group.
Increases beyond those linked to the workforce (in percentage of salary terms) may be 
awarded in certain circumstances at the Board’s discretion (based on the recommendation of 
the Committee) such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant 
increase in the scale of the role and/or size, value and/or complexity of the Group.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year 
taking due account of the factors noted in operation of the salary policy.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
6 3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice.
Operation The Company typically provides the following benefits:
• Car allowance
• Private health insurance
• Death-in-service cover
• Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses/arrangements (as required).
Where Executive Directors are recruited from overseas, benefits more tailored to their 
geographical location may be provided.
Where revised benefits are offered to employees more generally within a geographic location 
or across the Group, Executive Directors are likely to be eligible to receive those benefits.
Maximum opportunity The cost of some of these benefits is not pre-determined and may vary from year to year 
based on the overall cost to the Company in securing these benefits for a population of 
employees (particularly health insurance and death-in-service cover).
Framework used to assess performance  
and for the recovery of sums paid
None.
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy To provide a market competitive, yet cost-effective, long-term retirement benefit.
Operation A Company contribution to a defined contribution scheme or the provision of a cash 
supplement equivalent.
Maximum opportunity Company contributions of up to 25% of salary.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
None.
Annual Bonus
Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise annual delivery of performance objectives relating to the short-term goals of the 
Company.
Operation Annual cash bonus awards are earned with the majority based on performance against a 
sliding scale of challenging profit-based targets and with a minority based on targets related 
to the Company’s other key performance indicators (e.g. return on capital employed). The 
Committee adjusts these targets each year to ensure there is alignment with the Group’s 
strategic objectives.
Maximum opportunity Maximum (% salary): 
100%
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
Details of the performance measures used for the bonus relating to the previous financial year 
and targets set for the year under review and performance against them are provided in the 
Annual Remuneration Report.
The annual bonus is determined based on performance against a range of the Company’s key 
performance indicators and paid following the approval of the Group’s audited results for the 
year by the Board.
The majority of the bonus will be earned on the basis of stretching profit-based targets.
A minority may be based on targets related to the Company’s other key performance 
indicators (e.g. return on capital employed).
Some guidance on targets for the bonus for the coming year is set out in the Directors’ Report 
on Remuneration below but the specific targets are considered by the Committee to be 
commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance.
No more than 30% of salary in total is earned at the threshold performance levels, with a 
graduated scale operating thereafter through to maximum bonuses being earned for 
out-performance of the Company’s targets for the year.
Payments under the annual bonus plan may be subject to clawback in the event of a material 
misstatement of the Company’s financial results or misconduct that leads to such material 
misstatement or if an error is made in assessing the extent to which any target and/or any 
other condition imposed on the bonus was satisfied. The clawback provisions will operate for 
a two-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 64
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
remuneration policy continued
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards
Purpose and link to strategy To drive superior long-term financial performance and shareholder returns, aid retention and 
align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation An annual award of free shares (i.e. either conditional shares or nil-cost options) which vest 
after three years subject to continued service (save in “good leaver” circumstances) and the 
achievement of challenging performance conditions. 
A dividend equivalent provision operates enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on 
shares that vest.
Maximum opportunity Maximum (% salary): 
125%
In exceptional circumstances (e.g. recruitment), awards can be made up to 200% of salary.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
Granted subject to challenging financial (e.g. adjusted EPS) and total shareholder return 
performance targets tested over three years.
20% of awards will vest for threshold performance, with full vesting taking place for 
equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets.
The Committee may scale back the level of vesting of an award if it considers underlying 
financial performance over the performance period has been significantly worse than the level 
of vesting would otherwise indicate.
Payments may be subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results or misconduct that leads to such material misstatement or if an 
error is made in assessing the extent to which any target and/or any other condition imposed 
on the award was satisfied. The clawback provisions will operate for a two-year period 
following the date on which awards vest.
All-employee Save-As-You-Earn Plan
Purpose and link to strategy Encourages long-term shareholding in the Company.
Provides all employees with the opportunity to become owners in the Company on similar 
terms.
Operation Periodic invitations are made to participate in the Group’s Save-As-You-Earn (“SAYE”) Plan.
Shares acquired through the SAYE Plan (via exercising an option to acquire shares at the end 
of a savings contract) have significant tax benefits in the UK, subject to satisfying certain 
HMRC requirements.
The SAYE Plan can only operate on an “all employee”/equal terms basis. A plan operates on 
similar terms, but on a non-tax favoured basis, outside the UK as appropriate.
Maximum opportunity The maximum participation level in the SAYE Plan is as per HMRC limits with participants 
granted linked share options (by reference to projected savings) with a strike price currently up 
to a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of grant. On the maturity of the 
savings contracts, participants can elect to (i) use the accumulated savings to exercise the 
option or (ii) request the return of their savings.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
In line with the relevant HMRC legislation (applicable to UK-based employees), there are no 
post-grant performance targets applicable to awards.
Share Ownership Guidelines
Purpose and link to strategy To align interests of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the after-tax number of vested shares 
issued under long-term incentive awards until the guideline is achieved (applicable to awards 
granted from 2011 onwards). 
The Committee will monitor progress towards the guideline on an annual basis.
Maximum opportunity A 100% of salary share ownership guideline applies to the Executive Directors.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
None.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
65
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Bonus Plan and LTIP
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, the LTIP and SAYE Plan according to their respective rules and in accordance with the 
Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards 
to the operation and administration of these plans.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and LTIP awards are a subset of the Group’s key performance indicators.
Under the annual bonus plan, profit is used as the primary performance metric. Other metrics based on the Company’s key performance 
indicators are also used to provide clear alignment with the over-arching strategy of achieving profitable cash-generative growth whilst 
ensuring that efficient management of capital is fully encouraged.
In terms of long-term performance targets, LTIP awards vest subject to (i) challenging EPS growth targets that are aligned with the 
long-term levels of earnings growth targeted by the Company and (ii) relative TSR targets which provide clear alignment of interests 
between shareholders and executives.
Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external market expectations for the Company. Only 
modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels, with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance 
of the challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
No performance targets are applied to the SAYE Plan, which is aimed at encouraging broad-based equity ownership.
Recruitment and Promotion Policy
For Executive Director recruitment and/or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below:
Remuneration Element Policy
Base Salary Salary for a new hire (or on promotion to Executive Director) would be set at a level sufficient to 
attract the best candidate available to fill the role, taking into account the Group’s position and 
strategy and the country in which the new hire will live and work. For example, it may set the 
salary of a new hire at a premium to those paid to the predecessor if this was necessary to 
attract a candidate with experience in a business of the size which the Group aspires to become 
or, conversely, could be set at a discount to those offered in companies of a similar size, 
geographical reach and complexity initially, with a series of planned increases over subsequent 
years, in order to bring the salary to the desired level, subject to individual performance.
Benefits Benefits will be set in accordance with the Company’s remuneration policy. In addition, where 
necessary, the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate 
recruitment and flexibility is retained to pay for legal fees and other costs incurred by the 
individual in relation to their appointment. Consideration may need to be given to particular 
elements of benefit packages if a new Director was recruited outside of the UK.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level provided to current Executive Directors, 
again subject to particular considerations for a recruit from outside the UK.
Annual Bonus The annual bonus will operate as outlined for current Executive Directors, with the respective 
maximum opportunity, albeit usually pro-rated for the period of employment. Depending on 
the timing and responsibilities of the appointment, it may be necessary to set different 
performance measures and targets initially.
The maximum ongoing incentive opportunity under the Company’s policy is 100% of salary.
Long-Term Incentives LTIP awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current Executive Directors. 
An award may (and would usually) be made upon appointment (subject to the Company not 
being prohibited from doing so). For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over 
their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant and 
further awards may also be considered.
The maximum ongoing annual award level is 125% of salary but an award, in exceptional 
circumstances (as determined by the Committee) (e.g. as in the case of a “buy-out” as detailed 
below), may be granted up to 200% of salary under the rules of the LTIP.
Buy-out Awards In the case of an external hire, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based 
elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company (and therefore 
shareholders) to facilitate the buy-out of value forfeited on joining the Company. This includes the 
use of awards made under Rule 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules. Such payments would take account of 
remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer and would reflect (as far as possible) 
the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance 
conditions. Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 6 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
remuneration policy continued
Directors’ service contracts and payments for loss of office
The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for all the Executive Directors that continue indefinitely unless determined by their 
notice period.
The Committee’s policy is to set notice periods of up to 12 months for the Company to dismiss an Executive Director. Should notice be 
served by either party, the executive will be able to continue to receive basic salary and other emoluments (but not bonus) for the 
duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfill their current duties or may 
assign a period of garden leave.
A bonus has only been payable if the relevant Director is in the employment of Low & Bonar PLC on the date on which bonuses are paid 
by the Company following the end of the relevant financial year (the “Payment Date”) and he/she has not given notice of intention to 
leave employment. The Company’s policy now includes the ability for payments to be made to Executive Directors on a pro-rata basis if 
the Director is a “good leaver” during the year: i.e. in certain prescribed circumstances, such as ill health, injury or disability, redundancy, 
retirement, transfer or sale of the employing company, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee. If the Company 
dismisses the Director on or after the final date of the financial year but before the Payment Date (other than for reasons of gross 
misconduct) he/she will remain eligible to receive the bonus.
Executive Directors’ service contracts may be terminated without notice for certain events, such as gross misconduct. No payment or 
compensation beyond sums accrued up to the date of termination will be made if such event occurs.
At the Company’s discretion, Executive Directors may receive a payment in lieu of notice. The payment in lieu of notice would relate to 
the unexpired notice period and include base salary and other emoluments (but not bonus). The policy for a new hire would be that a 
payment in lieu of notice may be made but that it would be subject to full, on-going mitigation.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse on cessation of employment. However, in relation to awards granted under 
the 2013 LTIP, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as retirement, injury or disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing 
company, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time) “good leaver” 
status may be applied. If treated as a good leaver, awards will remain subject to performance conditions, which will be measured over the 
performance period from grant to the normal vesting date, and will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance 
period actually served (although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate if it considers it inappropriate to do so). The Committee can 
also decide, in exceptional circumstances, to allow the award to vest on the date of cessation, subject to performance to that date and 
pro-rating. Options held under the SAYE Plan generally lapse when employment ceases, subject again to certain good leaver provisions.
The Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to a departing Director, where appropriate.
With regards to awards previously granted under the 2003 LTIP, the extent of early vesting that takes place in certain good leaver 
circumstances is broadly equivalent to that described for the 2013 LTIP. No further awards can be granted under this arrangement. 
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors in other companies and that these 
appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company. It is the Company’s policy that Board 
approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. The Executive Director is permitted to 
retain any fees paid for such services. 
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment renewable usually for periods 
of three years. The appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either the Director or the Company giving six 
months’ notice in writing. Continuation of an appointment is contingent on re-election by the shareholders as required by the Articles.
 
Non-Executive Director’s service contract
Martin Flower has a service contract with the Company dated 12 February 2010 (which replaced his letter of appointment relating to his 
previous service as a Non-Executive Director dated 1 January 2007). Mr Flower’s appointment is for a period of three years from 30 June 
2013, which can be extended for a further three years upon expiry. The appointment may be terminated at any time by either party giving 
to the other six months’ prior written notice. If the Company gives notice it may, at its discretion, terminate the appointment with 
immediate effect by paying an amount in respect of the fee for the notice period. Mr Flower’s appointment as Chairman will terminate 
forthwith and without any compensation for loss of office if he is removed as a Director by resolution passed at a general meeting or if he 
ceases to be a Director pursuant to any provision of the Articles of Association.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
6 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
The policy on Non-Executive Directors’ fees is:
Fees
Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive fee which will attract those high-calibre individuals with the relevant 
skills and experience necessary to contribute to a high-performing board.
Operation The fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed every year, although 
not always changed. 
Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time commitments and responsibility and are 
periodically market-tested to determine if fee levels are in line with those offered in companies 
of a comparable size, international reach and complexity for each role.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and do not participate in 
any of the Company’s incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee, with additional fees payable for chairmanship 
of the Company’s key committees.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
The Chairman’s fee is considered by the Remuneration Committee (during which the Chairman 
has no part in discussions) and the Non-Executive Directors’ fee is determined by the Board 
excluding the Non-Executives.
Maximum opportunity The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the remuneration 
policy operates to ensure they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment of 
the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and fee levels in 
companies of a similar size and complexity.
Framework used to assess performance 
and for the recovery of sums paid
None.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 6 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
annual remuneration report
(*) denotes audited information
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the ’Regulations’) and Rule 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The Annual Remuneration Report 
will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION TABLE*
The table below shows the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 November 2015, and the comparative figures 
for the year ended 30 November 2014.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus LTIP Awards Pension Total
Notes
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
2015
£000
2014
£000
Brett Simpson 1 – 5 360 96 3 – 216 – – – 90 24 669 120
Mike Holt 1 – 4, 6 289 295 17 19 165 – – 90 69 67 540 471
1 Benefits are a car allowance (not Brett Simpson) and private health insurance. 
2 The annual bonus is the only payment made to Directors which falls within paragraph 7(1)(c) of Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Regulations. In setting the bonus plan for 2014, the 
metrics used were chosen to be aligned with the Group’s stated medium-term objectives and were set out in more detail in last year’s Annual Report. 
 The metrics used in the annual bonus plan in the year under review were chosen to be aligned with the Group’s stated medium-term objectives. This resulted in a combination 
of profit and ROCE targets being set. The sliding scales of targets set took due account of both internal planning and the external market’s expectations for the Company’s 
performance. The bonus earned against the targets set, and a summary of the targets and weightings applying to each measure for 2015, is set out below:
Metric Opportunity (% salary) Payment (% salary)
Profit
(i)
70% 42.5%
ROCE
(ii)
30% 17.5%
(i) Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items at budgeted exchange rates. A ‘profit’ element of the bonus was to be paid if profit before tax, amortisation and 
non-recurring items (“PBTA”) equalled or exceeded the lower limit of £25.0m. At the lower limit, a ‘profit’ bonus of 20% of salary was payable. Below the lower limit, no 
“profit” element of the bonus was to be paid. At a PBTA of £27.0m (the mid-point), a profit element of the bonus of 45% of salary was to be payable. A maximum “profit” 
element of the bonus of 70% of salary was to be payable if PBTA was equal to or more than £28.5m (the upper limit). Between the lower and mid point and between the mid 
point and the upper limit, the profit bonus percentage was to increase on a straight-line basis. As the targets were set at budgeted exchange rates, the level of profit 
determined to have been made during the year would differ from reported profits, which are based upon actual exchange rates during the year. Certain other minor 
adjustments to reported profits may also be taken into account when determining profits for the purposes of annual bonuses. 
(ii) ROCE targets were subject to achieving a threshold level of PBTA (calculated as set out above) to ensure that the returns were delivered on a profitable basis. A return on 
capital employed element of the bonus was to be payable if return on capital employed for the relevant periods equalled or exceeded the rates for the periods referred to in 
the table below. Return on capital employed was operating profit before non-recurring items and amortisation for the year ended 30 November 2015 divided by the average of 
the total sum of fixed assets (property, plant and equipment), inventories, trade debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals at the end of each month of the period. 
Below the lower limit specified, no “return on capital employed” element of the bonus was to be paid. A maximum “return on capital employed” element of the bonus of 
30% of salary was only to be payable if return on capital employed was equal to or more than the rate specified (the upper limit). 
Period-end return on 
capital employed
Bonus entitlement  
(as % of salary)
30 November 2015 – lower limit 15.2% 10.0%
– mid-point 15.6% 20.0%
– upper limit 16.0% 30.0%
 Between the lower and upper limits, the return on capital employed bonus percentage was to increase on a straight-line basis. The “return on capital employed” element of 
the bonus was only to become payable if actual PBTA was at least £25.0m.
3 The amounts stated for 2014 comprise the value of ordinary shares vesting and being received in that financial year under (a) LTIP awards made in 2011 in relation to the  
TSR performance target (but not the EPS target) as the performance period in relation to the TSR target ended in that financial year and the shares vested and were issued to 
Mike Holt in May 2014 and (b) LTIP awards made in 2012 in relation to the EPS performance target (but not the TSR target) as the performance period in relation to the EPS 
target ended in that financial year, although no shares actually vested or were issued in respect of such awards. Unless otherwise stated, the values stated are the prices at 
which the relevant shares (or a portion of them) were sold in the market immediately after their allotment to the Director in respect of the shares issued under the awards. 
Brett Simpson joined the Company in 2014 and so held no relevant awards.
 The amounts stated for 2015 comprise the value of ordinary shares vesting and being received in that financial year under (a) LTIP awards made in 2012 in relation to the TSR 
performance target (but not the EPS target) as the performance period in relation to the TSR target ended in that financial year, although no shares actually vested or were 
issued in respect of such awards and (b) LTIP awards made in 2013 in relation to the EPS performance target (but not the TSR target) as the performance period in relation to 
the EPS target ended in that financial year, although no shares will vest or be issued in respect of such awards. 
 The 2011 LTIP awards vested in May 2014 to 44% of the maximum in relation to the EPS performance target (22% of the total of the award) and 41.8% in relation to the TSR 
performance target (20.9% of the total award). This level of vesting was triggered as a result of achieving (i) EPS of 6.23p in the year ending 30 November 2013 compared to 
the EPS target range of 5.7p to 7.0p and (ii) a three-year total shareholder return of 71.9%, which was below the upper quartile level of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding 
investment trusts) over the three-year period of 114.7% and above the median level of 55.8%, which triggered vesting in respect of 41.8% of this part of the award. The 2012 
LTIP awards vested in March 2015 to 0% of the maximum in relation to the EPS performance target (0% of the total of the award) and 0% of the maximum in relation to the 
TSR performance target (0% of the total award). This level of vesting was triggered as a result of achieving EPS of 5.46p in the year ending 30 November 2014 compared to 
the EPS target range of 7.1p to 8.8p and a three-year total shareholder return of 4.7% which was below the median level of 64.1%. The 2013 LTIP awards are due to vest in 
April 2016 to 0% of the maximum in relation to the EPS target (0% of the total award). This level of vesting will be triggered as a result of achieving EPS of 5.86p compared to 
the EPS target range of 7.50p to 9.30p. Brett Simpson holds no such awards. 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
6 9
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
4 In addition to their salaries, the Executive Directors are entitled to a percentage of their basic salary to enable them to make retirement benefit arrangements. Payments made 
under this arrangement during the year were a contribution of 25% of salary. 
5 Brett Simpson became a director on 26 August 2014 and the information in this report for 2014 relates only to the period from that date.
6  Salary includes an additional fee of £40,000 per annum paid to Mike Holt from 1 April 2014 to 30 March 2015 in recognition of additional duties assumed by him as set out in 
last year’s Annual Report. This resulted in additional payments of £13,333 in 2015 and £26,667 in 2014.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Base salary
The Executive Directors’ base salaries were reviewed in December 2015. The Committee took account of performance as well as 
responsibilities, skills and experience when reviewing salary. The Committee also considered the wider pay levels and salary increases 
being proposed across the Group as a whole. As a result, the Committee decided to increase Executive Directors’ salaries as shown below 
with effect from 1 December 2015. 
Salary as at
1 December 
2015
Salary as at
1 December 
2014 Increase
Group Chief Executive £370,000 £360,000 2.78%
Chief Financial Officer £282,000 £275,200 2.47%
The Executive Directors’ salaries are considered by the Committee to reflect the Company’s policy of paying base salaries in line with 
those offered by companies of a similar size, international reach and complexity. The Committee is satisfied that the Executive Directors’ 
salaries are appropriate in light of the calibre and experience of the individuals.
Pensions and Benefits
Executive Directors receive a car allowance (not Brett Simpson), private health insurance, death-in-service cover and a pension 
contribution of 25% of salary.
Performance-related bonus
Details of the annual bonus payments made and the metrics used for the year ended 30 November 2015 are set out on page 68. The 
specific targets relating to the annual bonus for the year ending 30 November 2016 are considered to be commercially sensitive and will 
not therefore be disclosed in advance. They will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Remuneration Report, along with disclosure of 
performance against them and the payments resulting. However, an overview of the bonus structure that is intended to operate in the 
current financial year is set out below.
In 2016, the Executive Directors will again be eligible to receive a performance-related bonus of up to 100% of salary with the metrics 
and opportunity composed as follows:
Metric
Opportunity 
(% Salary)
Profit
(i)
70%
ROCE
(ii)
30%
(i) Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items, at budgeted exchange rates on a constant basis throughout the year. 
(ii) ROCE targets are subject to achieving a threshold level of profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items to ensure that the sales growth and returns are delivered on a 
profitable basis.
In line with the Company’s Remuneration Policy, the bonus targets for the year ending 30 November 2016 will be on a graduated scale 
around targeted levels of performance. In relation to the profit element of a bonus (maximum of 70% of salary), the bonus payable at the 
threshold performance level is 20% of salary through to a maximum bonus being earned at up to 70% of salary in relation to delivering 
performance ahead of the Company’s target. In relation to the ROCE element of the bonus (maximum of 30% of salary), the bonus 
payable at the threshold performance level is 10% of salary through to a maximum bonus being earned at up to 30% of salary in relation 
to delivering performance ahead of the Company’s target. No bonus is earned against non-financial targets. Bonus payments are subject 
to clawback provisions which would enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an Executive Director in the event of a 
material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or misconduct that leads to such material misstatement or if an error is made in 
assessing the extent to which any target and/or any other condition imposed on the bonus was satisfied. The clawback provisions would 
enable the Committee to withhold shares held under outstanding long-term incentive awards and/or future cash bonus payments as part 
of the process through which any overpayment of annual bonus is recovered by the Company. The Committee may also request a 
repayment (in cash) if any clawback cannot be satisfied through the withholding of incentive pay. The clawback provisions operate for a 
two-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid. Bonuses for Executive Directors are subject to provisions allowing for 
payment on a pro rata basis to “good leavers” during the year as outlined above.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 70
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
annual remuneration report continued
Long-term Incentive Plan
The maximum normal award limit under the 2013 LTIP is 125% of salary and it is intended that awards will be granted at this level in the 
current financial year as nil-cost options. The quantum of awards has been set after taking due account of (i) the need to motivate and 
retain the Executive Directors and other participants and (ii) the challenging nature of the performance targets set.
The performance targets to apply to the awards to be granted in the current financial year under the 2013 LTIP will be, as in prior years, 
split so that half will vest dependent on challenging EPS growth targets and half dependent on relative TSR measured against the 
constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). The targets, each tested over three years, are as follows:
Relative Total Shareholder Return (50% of an award)
Low & Bonar TSR Ranking versus FTSE Small Cap Index  
(excluding investment trusts)
Percentage 
vesting
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper quartile 100%
Straight-line vesting between performance points
Earnings Per Share (50% of an award)
Adjusted annualised EPS growth
1
Percentage
vesting 
Below 6% p.a. 0%
6% p.a. 20%
12% p.a. 100%
Straight-line vesting between performance points
1 The base-year EPS (i.e. that for the year ended 30 November 2015) is 5.86p, being our reported adjusted EPS of 5.61p adjusted to exclude costs relating to the Group’s pension 
schemes as calculated in accordance with IAS 19 (Revised). The Remuneration Committee will also adjust reported EPS for these same pension-related costs when assessing 
achievement of performance targets at the end of the performance period in order that the volatility in results which may arise from pension scheme investment strategy, 
which is managed by independent trustees, is excluded from consideration of management performance.
The Committee will have the power to reduce vesting if the Company’s overall financial performance over the performance period is 
significantly worse than the level of vesting indicates. In such circumstances, the Committee may reduce the level of vesting of an award 
so that, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, it reflects the Company’s overall financial performance over the performance period. 
In making its assessment, the Committee will consider the Company’s broad range of key performance indicators from time to time 
(which currently include profit before tax and return on capital employed).
The use of EPS and relative TSR, consistent with the approach taken in prior years, reflects our continued long-term focus on delivering 
long-term profitable growth and creating above market levels of shareholder value. Setting absolute EPS growth targets is considered to provide 
a clear and transparent approach to incentivising Executive Directors and mirrors the approach taken in recent years. The range of EPS targets 
reflects the current trading environment and is aligned with the continued focus on profitable growth, which is a key factor in our strategy.  
Use of relative TSR provides clear alignment between the Executive Directors and the Company’s shareholders. Despite the reduced EPS target 
to achieve the upper vesting level, compared to previous years, we believe the targets to be appropriately challenging given the level of the 
awards and the difficult low growth backdrop existing in many of our markets.
When testing these targets, the Committee’s policy will be to (i) request from its advisers an independent assessment of the extent to 
which the relative TSR target has been satisfied and (ii) consider the Company’s audited results (and the need to make any adjustments) 
when determining the extent of vesting in respect of EPS targets.
The awards will be subject to clawback provisions which will enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an Executive Director under 
an award in respect of performance to the year ending 30 November 2018 in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial 
results or misconduct that leads to such material misstatement or if an error is made in assessing the extent to which any target and/or any other 
condition imposed on vesting was satisfied. The clawback provisions will enable the Committee to withhold shares held under outstanding long-
term incentive awards and/or future cash bonus payments as part of the process through which any value overpaid is recovered by the 
Company. The Committee may also request a repayment (in cash) if any clawback cannot be satisfied through the withholding of incentive pay. 
The clawback provisions will operate for a two-year period following the date on which the awards vest.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
71
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Long-term Incentive Plan - Awards granted during the year
Awards under the Plan by award of nil-cost options were made to each of Brett Simpson and Mike Holt on 4 February 2015 on the  
following basis:
Basis of 
award 
granted
Share price at 
date of grant
Number of 
shares 
awarded
Face value of 
award
% of face  
value which 
vests at 
threshold
Brett Simpson 125% of salary 56.5p 796,460 £450,000 20%
Mike Holt 125% of salary 56.5p 608,850 £344,000 20%
Details of the performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out beneath the table below.
Other share-based incentives
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE Plan on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE PLAN INTERESTS*
The table below sets out the Executive Directors’ interests in the LTIP and SAYE Plan. Awards under the SAYE Plan are not subject to any 
performance conditions (other than continued employment as at the vesting date). The LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions 
details of which are set out in the Policy and the notes accompanying the table.
Award date
Awards held 
at 1 December 
2014
Granted 
during year
Exercised/ 
vested 
during year
Lapsed/ 
forfeited 
during year
Awards held at 
30 November 
2015
Exercise  
price  
(pence)
Normal vesting/
exercise date
Brett Simpson
LTIP
3
26/08/2014 542,168 – – – 542,168 – 08/03/2017
LTIP
4
06/02/2015 – 796,460 – – 796,460 – 07/02/2018
542,168 1,338,628
SAYE 09/04/2015 – 36,885 – – 36,885 48.8 01/06/2018
Mike Holt
LTIP
1
16/03/2012 394,297 – – 394,297 –
LTIP
2
09/04/2013 437,710 – – – 437,710 – 09/04/2016
LTIP
3
03/03/2014 364,810 – – – 364,810 – 03/03/2017
LTIP
4
06/02/2015 – 608,850 – – 608,850 – 07/02/2018
1,196,817 1,411,370
SAYE 20/04/2011 36,039 – – – 36,039 42.8 01/06/2016
SAYE 29/04/2014 6,540 – – 6,540 – 68.8 01/06/2017
SAYE 09/04/2015 – 18,442 – – 18,442 48.8 01/06/2018
42,579 54,481
The performance criteria applying to these awards were structured as follows: 
1 50% of the shares were subject to an EPS growth target and 50% to a relative TSR target measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the period until 
15 March 2015. Under the EPS element, 20% of shares were to vest for EPS in the year ended 30 November 2014 of 7.1 pence, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for 
EPS of 8.8 pence. Under the TSR element, 20% of shares were to vest for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile. None of the targets were 
met and the awards therefore lapsed. 
2 50% of the shares are subject to an EPS growth target and 50% to a relative TSR target measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the period until 8 
April 2016. Under the EPS element, 20% of shares vest for EPS in the year ended 30 November 2015 of 7.5 pence, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS of 9.3 
pence. Under the TSR element, 20% of shares vest for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile.
3 50% of the shares are subject to an EPS growth target and 50% to a relative TSR target measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the period until 2 
March 2017. Under the EPS element, 20% of shares vest for EPS in the year ending 30 November 2016 of 7.42 pence, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS of 
9.23 pence. Under the TSR element, 20% of shares vest for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile.
4 The performance criteria applying to awards are structured as follows:
 50% of the shares are subject to an EPS growth target and 50% to a relative TSR target measured against the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the period until  
5 February 2018. Under the EPS element, 20% of shares vest for EPS in the year ending 30 November 2017 of 6.85p, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS of 8.52 
pence. Under the TSR element 20% of share vest for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile.
The market price of a share at 30 November 2015 was 66.0p and the range during the year to 30 November 2015 was 47.75p to 75.0p.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 7 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
annual remuneration report continued
Payments to past directors
No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office
No payments were made for loss of office to any past directors during the year.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the total employee costs compared with dividends paid.
2015 2014 % change
– Employee costs £84.3m £81.2m 2.7%
– Dividends
1
£9.1m £8.9m 2.2%
1 Dividends declared in respect of the year.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 
The following graph shows the total shareholder return performance of the Company’s ordinary shares for the seven years ended 30 
November 2015 relative to the FTSE Small Cap Index, of which the Company has been a constituent member throughout the period. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
30-Nov-15 30-Nov-14 30-Nov-13 30-Nov-12 30-Nov-11 30-Nov-10 30-Nov-09 30-Nov-08
FTSE Small Cap Index
Low & Bonar PLC
Value (£)
Total shareholders return – Source: Thomson Reuters
This graph shows the value, on 30 November 2015, of £100 invested in Low & Bonar PLC on 30 November 2008 compared with the value 
of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Group Chief Executive Remuneration history
The table below shows the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive during each of the past seven financial years. The total 
remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus 
and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2015 2014
1
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
2
Total remuneration (£) 668,727 623,586 1,064,510 1,308,727 803,309 710,067 479,922
Annual bonus (%) 60% 0% 0% 79.3% 81% 100% 0%
LTIP vesting (%)
3
0% 20.9% 72% 98.7% 50% 0% 0%
1 In 2014, the Group had two Chief Executives: Steve Good, until 8 September 2014, and Brett Simpson, from 8 September 2014. The total remuneration for 2014 represents 
those amounts paid to Mr Good (£503,366) until 30 September 2014 (the date on which he ceased to be a director) and those amounts paid to Mr Simpson (£120,220) from 
26 August 2014 (the date on which his employment with the Company started) to the end of that year. 
2 In 2009, the Group had two Chief Executives: Paul Forman, until 3 September 2009, and Steve Good, from 3 September 2009. The total remuneration for 2009 represents 
those amounts paid to Mr Forman (£382,800) until 31 October 2009 (the date on which he ceased to be a director) and those amounts paid to Mr Good (£97,122) from  
3 September 2009 to the end of that year.
3 The LTIP awards are included in relation to any financial year on the same basis as those set out in the table on page 71. 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
73
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Remuneration for the Group Chief Executive compared with other employees 
The table below shows the percentage change in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Group Chief Executive between the 
current and previous financial year compared to that for the average UK employee. The Committee considers this provides a more 
appropriate reflection of the earnings of the average worker than the movement in the Group’s total wage bill, which is distorted by 
movements in the number of employees and variations in wage practices in our overseas markets. For the benefits and bonus per 
employee, this is based on those employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
2015 2014
1
% change
Group Chief Executive (£)
– salary 360,000 353,000 2.0%
– benefits 2,727 20,245 (86.5)%
– bonus 216,000 – –
Average per employee
2/3
 (£)
– salary 46,912 39,977 17.3%
– benefits 1,091 736 48.3%
– bonus 6,843 392 1,643.6%
1 In 2014, the Group had two Chief Executives: Steve Good until 8 September 2014 and Brett Simpson from 8 September 2014. The salary and other amounts for 2014 represent 
those paid to Steve Good during the year on an annualised basis, to avoid double counting of sums paid whilst both were employees of the Company prior to Brett Simpson 
becoming Group Chief Executive.
2 The Group operates from four locations in the UK: its head office in London and facilities for Sports & Leisure, Civil Engineering and Coated Technical Textiles. The average is a 
weighted-average across those four locations.
3 The data for the average for all UK employees for 2014 has been restated as the data presented last year was inadvertently not based on a weighted-average and was incorrect. 
The amounts stated last year were as follows: 
Average per employee (£)
– salary 57,845
– benefits 1,930
– bonus 1,045
Directors’ Service Contracts
Brett Simpson entered into a service agreement in June 2014, in respect of his employment which commenced on 26 August 2014, and 
Mike Holt entered into a service agreement in September 2010, in respect of his appointment which commenced on 22 November 2010.
Under Brett Simpson’s service contract, the Company may make a payment in lieu of notice and has reserved the right to pay any sums 
due in equal monthly instalments during what would have been the unexpired portion of his contractual notice period. In such 
circumstances, he will be under a duty to take reasonable steps to mitigate any consequential losses by seeking an alternative 
remunerative position, whether as employee, director, self-employed consultant or shareholder, and to notify the Company in writing as 
soon as any such position is accepted, of when it is due to commence and the financial terms applicable to it. If he obtains an alternative 
position during this period any sums due to him will be reduced or extinguished accordingly.
The service contract for Mike Holt provides that, if a payment in lieu of notice is made, then on the date of notice of termination a 
payment of six months’ salary is made. Further payments are made only if he is not in full-time employment at the time at which the 
payments fall to be made. 
Mike Holt is currently a Non-Executive Director of Asian Total Return Investment Company Plc. The Executive Directors hold no other 
remunerated external appointments.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 74
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
ANNUAL remuneration report continued
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The term of appointment for the Company’s Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Original
 appointment date
Commencement date  
of current term
Unexpired term at  
31 January 2016
Martin Flower 1 January 2007 30 June 2013 5 months
Steve Hannam 1 September 2002 1 September 2015 7 months
Kevin Matthews 1 April 2015 1 April 2015 26 months
Trudy Schoolenberg 1 May 2013 1 May 2013 3 months
John Sheldrick 1 October 2011 1 October 2014 18 months
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES*
Fees
2015
£000
2014
£000
Martin Flower 136 136
Steve Hannam
1
47 47
Kevin Matthews
3
27 –
Trudy Schoolenberg 40 40
John Sheldrick
2
47 47
1 Steve Hannam received a fee of £7,000 for his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee (which is included in the number in the table). 
2 John Sheldrick received a fee of £7,000 for his chairmanship of the Audit Committee (which is included in the number in the table). 
3 Kevin Matthews became a director on 1 April 2015 and the information in this report relates only to the period from that date to 30 November 2015.
Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration for the year ending 30 November 2016
Fees for the year ending 30 November 2016 (which are unchanged from the year under review) are: 
• Chairman: £135,757
• Non-Executive Director base fee: £40,000 
• Chairman of the Audit Committee: £7,000
• Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: £7,000 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in short or long-term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Group.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS*
The tables below show the beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company held by Directors who were in office during the year 
ended 30 November 2015. For Executive Directors, the table also shows share ownership compared with the share ownership guidelines 
(full details of which can be found in the Policy on pages 62 to 67) based on the share price of 66.0p on 30 November 2015
Executive Directors
30 November 
2015
1 December 
2014
Guideline on share 
ownership as a % 
of salary
Actual beneficial 
share ownership as 
a % of salary
1
Guideline met
Outstanding LTIP 
awards
Outstanding 
options
Brett Simpson 75,000 75,000 100% 14% No 1,338,628 36,885
Mike Holt 496,398 496,398 100% 119% Yes 1,411,370 54,481
Non-Executive Directors 
30 November 
2015
1 December
 2014 
(or subsequent date 
of appointment)
Martin Flower 556,912 556,912
Steve Hannam 348,232 348,232
Kevin Matthews – –
Trudy Schoolenberg 36,231 36,231
John Sheldrick 76,993 76,993
During the period 1 December 2015 to 2 February 2016, no changes in Directors’ interests have been notified to the Company.
No Director held any beneficial interest in or options over shares in or debentures of any other Group company at 30 November 2015 or 
at 2 February 2016, save as set out above and on the table on page 71.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
7 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee currently comprises all the Non-Executive Directors of the Company as listed on page 61. All of the Committee members, 
with the exception of Mr Flower, are considered by the Board to be independent. Mr Flower became a member of the Committee on 6 
July 2010 and, while it is no longer appropriate to apply the test of independence to him following his appointment as Chairman, he was 
considered by the Board to be independent on his initial appointment as a Non-Executive Director.
The Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Director of Human Resources may be invited to attend meetings of 
the Committee. The Committee keeps itself informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and 
seeks advice where appropriate from external advisers. The Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Director of 
Human Resources and the Company Secretary also assist the Committee, except in relation to their own remuneration. The attendance of 
each Director at meetings during the year is shown on page 55.
The Committee continues to consider, in line with the Investment Association’s Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosures, 
whether the incentive policies for Executive Directors and senior executives raise any environmental, social or governance issues or risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour (with liaison between the Risk Oversight, Audit and Remuneration Committees where 
appropriate). As part of this action, the Committee periodically commissions a remuneration risk assessment, the last one being 
undertaken during 2014. This assessment, which was further reviewed during 2015, confirmed that the Company’s remuneration policy is 
aligned with the Group’s strategy and does not encourage undue risk-taking given the internal controls operated by the Group, the range 
of performance measures used for incentive purposes and the significant weighting placed on long-term performance.
The Committee’s remit is set out in its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website. In 2014, the Committee 
recommended to the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Advisers
The following advisers provided services to the Committee during the year: 
• New Bridge Street (an Aon plc company) was appointed by the Committee as advisers and provided advice on reward structures and 
levels and aspects of the Company’s future remuneration policy. New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and complies with their code of conduct. New Bridge Street also provides advice to the Company in respect of executive 
remuneration and Non-Executive Directors’ fees, but no other Aon companies provide services to the Company. The fees paid to New 
Bridge Street during the year ended 30 November 2015, which were charged on their standard terms, were £39,094 (excluding VAT) 
(2014: £46,000, excluding VAT). 
• Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Squire Patton Boggs LLP provided advice in respect of matters of legal compliance. Each of 
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Squire Patton Boggs LLP provides legal advice to the Company on matters other than 
remuneration on a regular and continuing basis.
• The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Group Director of Human Resources attend meetings by invitation, but are not 
present during discussions concerning their own remuneration. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. The Group 
Chief Executive, Group Director of Human Resources and the Company Secretary provided advice to the Committee on matters 
relating to the Policy and also Company practices. 
The Committee regularly reviews relationships with external advisers and remains satisfied that all advice received during the year was 
objective and independent. 
2014 AGM statement of shareholder voting
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld
No. of shares % of shares voted No. of shares % of shares voted % of issued share capital No. of shares
232,386,939 99.4 1,296,097 0.6 71.3 536,920
Steve Hannam
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
On behalf of the Board of Directors
2 February 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 7 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report and the accounts of the 
Company and the Group for the year ended 30 November 2015.
Strategic Report
The Directors have presented their Strategic Report on pages 1 to 
51, which contains a fair review of the Company’s business, and a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Company. The review is intended to be a balanced and 
comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of 
the Company’s business during the financial year, and the position 
of the Company’s business at the end of that year, consistent with 
the size and complexity of the business. The review includes, to the 
extent necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Company’s business, analysis using 
financial key performance indicators. As the Company is a quoted 
company, the strategic report also, to the extent necessary for an 
understanding of the development, performance or position of the 
Company’s business, includes (a) the main trends and factors likely 
to affect the future development, performance and position of the 
Company’s business, and (b) information about (i) environmental 
matters (including the impact of the Company’s business on the 
environment), (ii) the Company’s employees, and (iii) social, 
community and human rights issues, including information about 
policies of the Company in relation to those matters and the 
effectiveness of those policies. The Report of the Directors should 
be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report, which forms part 
of this report and contains details of the principal activities of the 
Group during the year and an indication of likely future 
developments and an indication of the activities of the Group in 
the field of research and development.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on  
2 February 2016.
Greenhouse gas reporting
The Directors are required to set out in this report the annual 
quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from 
activities for which the Group is responsible, including the 
combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. The report 
must state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, 
steam or cooling by the Company for its own use. This report is 
shown on page 45 and forms part of this report.
Results and dividends
The Group’s consolidated profit for the year attributable to equity 
holders of the Company was £5.7m (2014: £12.4m).
The Company paid an interim dividend for the year ended  
30 November 2015 of 0.98 pence per share on 24 September 2015 
to ordinary shareholders whose names appeared in the register at 
the close of business on 28 August 2015. The Directors 
recommend that a final dividend of 1.80p (2014: 1.75p) be paid on 
14 April 2016 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 18 March 2016.
Dividends 2015 2014 % Increase
Interim 0.98p 0.95p 3.2%
Final 1.80p 1.75p 2.9%
Total 2.78p 2.70p 3.0%
Company Secretary
Matthew Joy resigned as Company Secretary and Stuart Haydon 
was appointed in his place on 14 September 2015.
Directors
The Directors of the Company are shown on pages 52 and 53. 
They all held office throughout the financial year under review, 
with the exception of Kevin Matthews who was appointed a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its 
Directors. The Directors also have the benefit of the indemnity 
provision contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. The 
Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each 
Director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach 
to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of 
associated companies. These provisions, which are qualifying third 
party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006, were in place throughout the year other 
than that in respect of Kevin Matthews which was entered into on 
his appointment as a Non-Executive Director.
Re-election of Directors
Although directors of companies which are not FTSE 350 
companies are not subject to annual election by shareholders, in 
addition to Steve Hannam, who retires having served for over nine 
years, and Kevin Matthews, who retires having been appointed 
during the year, all the other directors are submitting themselves 
for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting. 
Having been a Director for over nine years, Steve Hannam retires in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and offers 
himself for re-election. Mr Hannam’s appointment may be 
terminated by either him or the Company giving six months’ notice 
in writing. Mr Hannam was appointed as Non-Executive Director of 
the Company in September 2002 for an initial term of three years 
and was last reappointed in 2015 for a term of one year up to 31 
August 2016. The Board continues to believe that it benefits 
substantially from Mr Hannam’s experience and expertise. Further 
details regarding Mr Hannam’s re-election are set out on page 55.
Kevin Matthews was appointed during the year and, in accordance 
with the Company’s Articles of Association, offers himself for 
re-election. His appointment is for a period of three years 
commencing on 1 April 2015.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders that, following formal 
evaluation, the performance of each of the Directors continues to 
be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests in shares and debentures of the Company are 
shown on page 74.
Substantial interests
At at 30 November 2015, the Company’s register of substantial 
shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the 
Company’s issued Ordinary Shares, which include interests 
disclosed to the company in accordance with Rule 5 of the UKLA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Directors’ Report Strategic Report
7 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
No. of
Ordinary
Shares
% of
Ordinary
Shares
JO Hambro Capital Management Limited 33,791,468 10.27
AXA Framlington Investment Managers 33,710,410 10.25
Schroders Investment Management 31,778,970 9.66
Unicorn Investment Management 21,432,965 6.51
M & G Investments 20,481,054 6.23
Henderson Global Investors 14,389,576 4.37
Sterling Strategic Value 13,215,000 4.02
Aberforth Partners 12,834,094 3.90
Luxempart 9,992,000 3.04
At the date of this report, the Company’s register of substantial 
shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the 
Company’s issued Ordinary Shares, which include interests 
disclosed to the Company in accordance with Rule 5 of the UKLA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
No. of
Ordinary
Shares
% of
Ordinary
Shares
JO Hambro Capital Management Limited 33,791,468 10.27
AXA Framlington Investment Managers 33,710,410 10.25
Schroders Investment Management 31,070,411 9.44
Unicorn Investment Management 21,432,965 6.51
M & G Investments 20,481,054 6.23
Henderson Global Investors 14,389,576 4.37
Sterling Strategic Value 13,215,000 4.02
Aberforth Partners 12,834,094 3.90
Luxempart 10,739,133 3.26
Ordinary share capital
The Company’s issued share capital as at 30 November 2015 consisted 
of 328,984,477 Ordinary Shares with voting rights, 154,571,152 
deferred shares without voting rights and £100,000 6 per cent first 
cumulative preference stock, £100,000 6 per cent second cumulative 
preference stock and £200,000 5.5 per cent third cumulative 
preference stock (the “preference stock”). Provided that preference 
dividends remain paid in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, the preference stock does not carry voting rights. The 
Company does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury. The total 
number of voting rights in the Company is, therefore, 328,984,477. 
Further details of the Company’s issued share capital at 30 November 
2015 and of options granted and shares issued pursuant to the 
Company’s employee share option schemes and long-term incentive 
plans are shown in Note 25 to the accounts. The Company operates 
an employee benefit trust to hold shares in relation to satisfying 
awards made under certain employee share schemes. At 30 
November 2015, the trust held 26,752 ordinary shares (2014: 26,752 
ordinary shares). During the year, 1,169,735 new ordinary shares were 
subscribed for by the Trust to satisfy employee share awards which 
vested. The Company issued a total of 1,169,735 ordinary shares to 
employees, including 323,253 issued on the exercise of long-term 
incentive awards to senior executives and the remainder to employees 
on the exercise of options under the Group’s save-as-you-earn plans. 
Allotment of these shares took place at various points during the year 
at prices ranging from £0.26 to £0.512 pence per share according to 
the terms of the options and awards.
At a general meeting of the Company, on a show of hands, every 
member who (being an individual) is present in person or (being a 
corporation) is present by a duly authorised representative, shall have 
one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a 
member entitled to vote on the resolution shall have one vote. No 
member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled to 
be present or to be counted in a quorum or to vote either personally 
or by proxy or otherwise at any general meeting of the Company or at 
any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of the shares 
of the Company or upon a poll or to exercise any other right conferred 
by membership in relation to meetings of the Company if any call or 
other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of 
shares in the Company of which he is the holder (whether alone or 
jointly with any other person), together with interest, costs, charges 
and expenses (if any), remains unpaid. If any member, or any other 
person appearing to be interested in shares held by such member, has 
been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the 
Company the information thereby required, then (unless the Directors 
otherwise determine) in respect of: the shares comprising the 
shareholding account in the Register of Members which comprises or 
includes the shares in relation to which the default occurred (all or the 
relevant number as appropriate of such shares being the default 
shares, which expression shall include any further shares which are 
issued in respect of such shares); and any other shares held by the 
member, the member shall (for so long as the default continues) not 
nor shall any transferee to which any of such shares are transferred 
other than pursuant to an approved transfer or pursuant to the 
Articles be entitled to be present or to vote either personally or by 
proxy at a general meeting of the Company or a meeting of the 
holders of any class of shares of the Company or to exercise any other 
right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the 
Company or meetings of the holders of any class of shares of the 
Company. The profits which the Company may determine to 
distribute in respect of any financial year or other period for which its 
accounts are made up shall be applied, in the first place, in paying to 
the holders of the first cumulative preference stock a fixed cumulative 
preferential dividend at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum: in the 
second place, in paying to the holders of the second cumulative 
preference stock a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 
6 per cent. per annum: and, in the third place, in paying to the holders 
of the third cumulative preference stock a fixed cumulative preferential 
dividend at the rate of 5½ per cent. per annum, and, subject to any 
special rights which may be attached to any shares hereafter created 
or issued, the balance of the said profits shall be distributed among 
the holders of the ordinary shares. On a return of assets on liquidation 
or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution 
among the members shall be applied, in the first place, in repaying to 
the holders of the first cumulative preference stock the sum of £1 for 
each £1 of such stock held (together with a sum equal to any arrears 
or deficiency of the fixed dividend thereon to be calculated down to 
the date of the return of capital): in the second place, in repaying to 
the holders of the second cumulative preference stock the sum of £1 
for each £1 of such stock held (together with a sum equal to any 
arrears or deficiency of the fixed dividend thereon to be calculated 
down to the date of the return of capital): and, in the third place, in 
repaying to the holders of the third cumulative preference stock the 
sum of £1 for each £1 of such stock held (together with a sum equal 
to any arrears or deficiency of the fixed dividend thereon to be 
calculated down to the date of the return of capital), and, subject to 
any special rights which may be attached to any shares hereafter 
created or issued, the balance shall belong to and be distributed 
among the holders of the ordinary shares. A Deferred Share entitles its 
holder on a return of capital on a winding-up (but not otherwise) only 
to the repayment of the amount paid up on that share after payment 
of (i) the amounts entitled to be paid to holders of the preference 
stock, and (ii) the capital paid up on each ordinary share of five pence 
in the share capital of the Company and the further payment of 
£10,000,000 on each such ordinary share. The full rights and 
obligations attaching to ownership of shares in the Company are 
contained in its Articles of Association.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 7 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
The Directors have authority to allot relevant securities and to allot 
equity securities for cash without first offering them pro rata to 
existing shareholders granted at last year’s Annual General Meeting. 
The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the upcoming 
Annual General Meeting as those existing authorities will expire.
The current authority to allot “Relevant Securities” in accordance with 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) is as follows:
1.  in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue only, equity securities  
up to a maximum nominal amount of £10,927,124.70, which 
represented approximately 66.66% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares at the date the authority was granted (reduced 
by the nominal amount of any Relevant Securities allotted under 
the next paragraph); and
2. in any other case, Relevant Securities up to a maximum  
nominal amount of £5,463,562.35, (approximately 33.33%  
of the Company’s issued ordinary shares), reduced by the  
nominal amount of any equity securities allotted under the 
previous paragraph.
The current authority to allot equity securities (as defined by 
section 560 of the 2006 Act) or sell treasury shares for cash 
without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion 
to their existing holdings is as follows:
1.  in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue only, up to a maximum 
nominal amount of £10,927,124.70; or
2. in any other case, up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£819,534.35, which represented approximately 5% of the 
Company’s issued ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) as 
at the date the authority was granted.
In compliance with the guidelines issued by the Pre-Emption 
Group, the Directors will ensure that, other than in relation to a 
rights issue, no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary shares 
(excluding treasury shares) will be allotted for cash on a non 
pre-emptive basis over a rolling three-year period unless 
shareholders have been notified and consulted in advance.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Pullman Hotel, 
London St Pancras, 100-110 Euston Road, London NW1 2AJ on 
Thursday 31 March 2016, commencing at 10am. The notice of 
meeting is contained in the separate booklet which is enclosed. 
The booklet contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed 
and explanatory notes.
Going concern
Having reviewed the medium-term forecasts and compared the 
cash flow with available bank facilities, the Directors are of the 
opinion that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
Viability Statement
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a 
five-year period, taking into account the Group’s position at  
30 November 2015 and the potential impacts of the principal  
risks over the review period.
A period of five years has been chosen for the purposes of the 
viability statement, as this is in line with the Group’s strategic 
planning process, which is updated annually and during which 
capital investment plans and market and product development 
initiatives are considered and used to model the Group’s 
performance and financial ratios, including funding requirements 
and maintaining adequate headroom on its loan covenants. In 
making the assessment, the Directors have taken account of the 
maturity of the Group’s current debt funding and its ability to raise 
new finance in most market conditions.
Whilst each principal risk has a potential impact, enhanced stress 
testing was carried out on two severe but plausible scenarios; a 
prolonged economic downturn, and a loss of premium pricing 
position of a significant portion of the Group’s product portfolio.
The Group’s operating model is structured to provide resilience to 
adverse trading conditions; including a diverse customer, supplier, 
geographical and market base, an ability to flex its cost base, the 
capability to maintain its margins in times of oil price volatility, and 
to control its capital investment requirements.
Based on this assessment and the results of the enhanced stress 
testing, and on the assumption that the principal risks are 
managed or mitigated in the ways disclosed, the Directors confirm 
that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period to 30 November 2020.
Internal Controls
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the systems of 
internal control within the Group. The purpose of these systems is to 
provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial 
information and to maintain proper control over the income, 
expenditure, assets and liabilities of the Group. The Board has also 
reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group faces in its 
operations. It has noted and is satisfied with the current control 
mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout 
the year. However, no system of control can provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In carrying out our 
review, the Directors have regard to what controls in our judgement 
are appropriate to the Group’s businesses, to the materiality and the 
likelihood of the risks inherent in these businesses and to the relative 
costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
Financial Instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the 
Company and policies for hedging each major type of forecasted 
transaction for which hedge accounting is used and the exposure 
of the Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cashflow 
risk are set out in note 20 on pages 110 to 116.
Significant agreements
The Group’s principal banking facilities may become repayable 
upon a change of control of the Company.
Information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of this Directors’ Report 
confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and 
that each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor will be proposed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Directors consider this annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Stuart Haydon
Company Secretary
2 February 2016
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Strategic Report
79
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Financial Statements Governance
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the parent company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of 
the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face. 
Brett Simpson  Mike Holt
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
2 February 2016 2 February 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities 80
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of  
Low & Bonar PLC only 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Low & Bonar PLC for 
the year ended 30 November 2015 set out on pages 82 to 124.  
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
30 November 2015 and of the group’s profit for the year  
then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU); 
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and; 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements 
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit were as follows:
Recoverability of goodwill (£69.6m)
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report), page 92 (accounting 
policy) and pages 104 to 105 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The group has significant goodwill allocated to four of 
its five groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’). In the light of 
recent adverse trading conditions, as well as forecast ongoing 
subdued performance in the Civil Engineering CGU, there is a risk 
that the carrying value of goodwill may be in excess of its 
recoverable amount and an impairment may arise. The estimation 
of recoverable amount is complex and significant judgement is 
required for estimates, specifically cashflow projections, discount 
rates and short term growth rates, particularly in the Civil 
Engineering CGU. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in 
forecasting and discounting future cash flows, this is the key 
judgemental area that our audit was concentrated on.
In addition, in May 2015 the Directors announced that the Group 
restructured its operations to move to 5 Global Business Units 
(“GBUs”) focusing on key markets. It was necessary to reallocate 
the goodwill balances for the purposes of impairment testing. 
Judgement is exercised in determining the basis on which the 
goodwill is allocated to the CGUs.
Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others, 
testing the controls relating to the preparation and approval of the 
Group’s budgeting process upon which the forecasts are based. 
We critically assessed the budgets including considering historical 
accuracy of budgeting and the reflection of actual and anticipated 
trading conditions. We challenged the assumptions in the budgets 
with reference to historical trends, and our own expectations 
based on our knowledge of the business.
In respect of the medium and longer term growth rates used in the 
impairment testing, we compared the group’s assumptions to 
externally derived data for inputs such as OECD country GDP 
forecasts. In respect of the Civil Engineering CGU we also 
compared growth rates used to forecast the impact of capital and 
operational investments made by the Group over the last 
12 months.
We utilised our own valuation specialist to assist us in assessing the 
applicable discount rates. We applied sensitivities to the budgets 
for the financial year to 30 November 2016, medium and long term 
growth rates and the discount rate. In particular we applied 
rigorous sensitivities to the Civil Engineering CGU forecasts by 
increasing the discount rate, reducing budgeted profits and 
reducing future growth rates. This was performed in order to 
reflect the risks of under-performance and forecasting risk. We 
calculated a range of discount rates, performance shortfalls and 
growth rates where the recoverable amount of assets equalled the 
net book value and considered this as part of our sensitivity 
analysis. We compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the 
Group’s market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of the 
aggregate discounted cash flow. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the 
impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected 
our own sensitivity analysis.
In respect of the restructuring of the Group during 2015,  
we critically assessed the appropriateness of the method of 
reallocation of goodwill to the Group’s newly formed GBUs  
based on our knowledge of the business and comparison to 
underlying data.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was 
set at £2,600,000, determined with reference to a benchmark of 
Group revenue, of which it represents 0.7%. We consider that 
revenue is appropriate to use as a benchmark for materiality as 
revenue is a key focus area for the users of the financial statements 
and a more stable measure year on year as the group has a number 
of components in a start-up phase and a material level of 
non-recurring expenses. 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding £75,000, in addition to  
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s 45 reporting components we subjected ten to 
audits for Group reporting purposes and four to specified risk-
focused audit procedures. The latter were not individually 
financially significant enough to require an audit for Group 
reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that 
needed to be addressed, or to provide further audit coverage over 
the Group’s results and balances.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 
following percentages of the Group’s results: 
Number of 
components
Group 
revenue
Total profits 
and losses 
that make up 
group profit 
before tax
Group total 
assets
Audits for group 
reporting purposes 10 69% 73% 70%
Specified risk-focused 
audit procedures 4 9% 6% 8%
Total 14 78% 79% 78%
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Financial 
Statements
Independent Auditor’s 
Report Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
81
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
The remaining 22% of total group revenue, 21% of total profits 
and losses that make up group profit before tax and 22% of total 
group assets is represented by a number of reporting components, 
none of which individually represented more than 3% of total 
group revenue, 5% of total profits and losses that make up group 
profit before tax or 4% of total group assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an 
aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement within these. 
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit 
team approved the component materiality level, which ranged 
from £170,000 to £1,950,000, having regard to the mix of size and 
risk profile of the Group across the components. The work on six 
components was performed by component auditors and the 
remainder by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited component locations in the 
Netherlands and Germany and met with the component auditor of 
the USA. Telephone meetings were also held with these 
components and the component in Belgium, including 
participation in completion meetings by telephone. Telephone 
meetings were held with other components during the year as 
necessary. At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to 
the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any 
further work required by the Group audit team was then 
performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
• information given in the Corporate Governance Statement  
set out on pages 54 to 56 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures (“the specified 
Corporate Governance information”) is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal 
risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on 
pages 36 to 41, concerning the principal risks, their 
management, and, based on that, the Directors’ assessment 
and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over 
the five years to 30 November 2020; or 
• the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements concerning 
the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the annual report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 78, in relation to 
going concern and longer term viability; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 
to 56 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven 
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an 
audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This 
report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is 
subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated 
into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Anthony Hambleton (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
St Nicholas House
Park Row
Nottingham
NG1 6FQ 
2 February 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 8 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 30 November
2015 2014
Note
Before 
amortisation 
and 
non-
recurring 
items 
£m
Amortisation 
and 
non-
recurring 
items 
(Note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
amortisation 
and 
non-recurring 
items 
£m
Amortisation 
and 
non-recurring 
items 
(Note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue 1 395.8 – 395.8 410.6 – 410.6
Operating profit/(loss) 1 32.8 (14.2) 18.6 31.7 (8.5) 23.2
Financial income 6 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Financial expense 6 (4.5) – (4.5) (5.5) – (5.5)
Net financing costs (4.4) – (4.4) (5.4) – (5.4)
Share of results of joint venture 15 (1.8) – (1.8) (1.1) – (1.1)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 2 26.6 (14.2) 12.4 25.2 (8.5) 16.7
Taxation 7 (7.6) 1.4 (6.2) (7.0) 2.1 (4.9)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 19.0 (12.8) 6.2 18.2 (6.4) 11.8
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 19.0 (12.8) 6.2 18.2 (6.4) 11.8
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 30 – – – – 0.9 0.9
Profit/(loss) for the year 19.0 (12.8) 6.2 18.2 (5.5) 12.7
Attributable to
Equity holders of the Company 18.5 (12.8) 5.7 17.9 (5.5) 12.4
Non-controlling interest 28 0.5 – 0.5 0.3 – 0.3
19.0 (12.8) 6.2 18.2 (5.5) 12.7
Earnings per share 10
Continuing operations:
Basic 5.61p 1.73p 5.46p 3.50p
Diluted 5.51p 1.70p 5.37p 3.44p
Discontinued operations:
Basic – – – 0.26p
Diluted – – – 0.26p
Total:
Basic 5.61p 1.73p 5.46p 3.76p
Diluted 5.51p 1.70p 5.37p 3.70p
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Consolidated Income 
Statement Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
83
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 November
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year 6.2 12.7
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes 4 2.2 (0.8)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension schemes 4 – 0.8
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations, net of hedging (17.8) (5.8)
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (15.6) (5.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year (9.4) 6.9
Attributable to
Equity holders of the parent (10.1) 6.3
Non-controlling interest 28 0.7 0.6
(9.4) 6.9
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 8 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Balance Sheets
as at 30 November
Group Company
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 69.6 78.0 – –
Intangible assets 12 20.3 27.8 – –
Property, plant and equipment 13 132.0 119.3 0.2 0.2
Investment in subsidiaries 14 – – 93.6 93.6
Investment in joint venture 15 – 3.6 – –
Investment in associates 16 0.5 0.5 – –
Deferred tax assets 21 4.4 4.4 – –
Other receivables 18 – – 22.3 22.7
Post-employment benefits 4 5.2 0.2 5.2 0.2
232.0 233.8 121.3 116.7
Current assets
Inventories 17 82.6 90.9 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 71.1 75.3 149.0 150.5
Cash and cash equivalents 20 33.9 25.8 5.3 3.6
Current tax receivable – – 0.2
187.6 192.0 154.3 154.3
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 31.5 – 34.0 8.0
Current tax liabilities 19 5.7 4.8 – –
Trade and other payables 19 77.0 82.4 26.4 21.1
Provisions 22 0.1 0.5 – –
Derivative liabilities 20 0.1 – 0.1 –
114.4 87.7 60.5 29.1
Net current assets 73.2 104.3 93.8 125.2
Total assets less current liabilities 305.2 338.1 215.1 241.9
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 104.5 113.8 66.4 98.2
Deferred tax liabilities 21 17.2 20.8 – –
Post-employment benefits 4 9.9 11.0 – –
Other payables 23 1.6 2.0 – –
133.2 147.6 66.4 98.2
Net assets 172.0 190.5 148.7 143.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 25 47.4 47.3 47.4 47.3
Share premium account 26 74.2 74.0 74.2 74.0
Translation reserve 27 (61.0) (43.0) – –
Retained earnings 105.3 105.8 27.1 22.4
Total equity attributable to
Equity holders of the parent 165.9 184.1 148.7 143.7
Non-controlling interest 28 6.1 6.4 – –
Total equity 172.0 190.5 148.7 143.7
The consolidated financial statements on pages 82 to 124 were approved by the Board on 2 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Brett Simpson Mike Holt
2 February 2016 2 February 2016
Registered number: SC008349
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Balance Sheets Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
8 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 November
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year from continuing operations 6.2 11.8
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 0.9
Profit for the year 6.2 12.7
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 12.4 12.7
Amortisation 5.2 6.1
Income tax expense 6.2 4.9
Net financing costs 4.4 5.4
Share of results of joint venture 1.8 1.1
Impairment of investment in joint venture 8.2 –
Non-cash pension charges 1.1 1.1
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 2.8 (9.0)
Increase in trade and other receivables (6.4) (2.0)
Movement in short-term loan to joint venture – 4.4
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2.3) 4.0
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (0.4) 0.5
Loss on disposal of non-current assets – –
Equity-settled share-based payment 0.6 0.6
Cash inflow from operations 39.8 42.5
Interest received – –
Interest paid (4.5) (4.5)
Tax paid (7.5) (7.7)
Pension cash contributions (4.5) (4.0)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 23.3 26.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries – –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (33.0) (19.0)
Intangible assets purchased (0.7) (1.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1.0) –
Net cash outflow from investing activities (34.7) (20.2)
Drawdown of borrowings 28.8 106.0
Repayment of borrowings – (93.4)
Proceeds of share issues to employees 0.3 0.1
Purchase of non-controlling interest – (1.4)
Equity dividends paid (9.0) (8.8)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 20.1 2.5
Net cash inflow 29 8.7 8.6
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 25.8 17.9
Foreign exchange differences (0.6) (0.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33.9 25.8
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement 86
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Company Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 November
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year 8 11.2 8.3
Adjustments for:
Depreciation – 0.1
Income tax credit – (1.2)
Net financing income (0.9) (1.1)
Non-cash pension charges 0.8 0.8
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 2.2 (10.5)
Increase in payables 4.3 5.7
Equity-settled share-based payment 0.6 0.6
Cash inflow from operations 18.2 2.7
Interest received 5.8 6.3
Interest paid (4.0) (5.6)
Tax paid – (0.7)
Pension cash contributions (3.8) (3.3)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 16.2 (0.6)
Net cash outflow from investing activities – – 
Proceeds of share issues to employees 0.3 0.1
(Repayment)/drawdown of borrowings (5.8) 12.6
Equity dividends paid (9.0) (8.8)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (14.5) 3.9
Net cash inflow 29 1.7 3.3
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 3.6 – 
Foreign exchange differences – 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 5.3 3.6
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Company Cash Flow 
Statement Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
87
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 November
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders of 
the parent 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 1 December 2013 47.2 73.9 (36.9) 102.5 186.7 6.4 193.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (6.1) 12.4 6.3 0.6 6.9
Dividends paid to Ordinary Shareholders – – – (8.8) (8.8) – (8.8)
Shares issued 0.1 0.1 – (0.1) 0.1 – 0.1
Share-based payment – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Purchase of Non-Controlling Interest – – – (0.8) (0.8) (0.6) (1.4)
Net increase/(decrease) for the year 0.1 0.1 (6.1) 3.3 (2.6) – (2.6)
At 30 November 2014 47.3 74.0 (43.0) 105.8 184.1 6.4 190.5
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (18.0) 7.9 (10.1) 0.7 (9.4)
Dividends paid to Ordinary Shareholders – – – (9.0) (9.0) – (9.0)
Dividends paid to Non-Controlling Interests – – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Shares issued 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 – 0.3
Share-based payment – – – 0.6 0.6 0.6
Net increase/(decrease) for the year 0.1 0.2 (18.0) (0.5) (18.2) (0.3) (18.5)
At 30 November 2015 47.4 74.2 (61.0) 105.3 165.9 6.1 172.0
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity 88
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 November
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 December 2013 47.2 73.9 20.8 141.9
Profit for the year – – 8.3 8.3
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme – – 1.6 1.6
Dividends paid to Ordinary Shareholders – – (8.8) (8.8)
Shares issued 0.1 0.1 (0.1) 0.1
Share-based payment – – 0.6 0.6
Net increase for the year 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
At 30 November 2014 47.3 74.0 22.4 143.7
Profit for the year – – 11.2 11.2
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme – – 1.9 1.9
Dividends paid to Ordinary Shareholders – – (9.0) (9.0)
Shares issued 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Share-based payment – – 0.6 0.6
Net increase for the year 0.1 0.2 4.7 5.0
At 30 November 2015 47.4 74.2 27.1 148.7
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
89
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Significant Accounting Policies
General information
Low & Bonar PLC (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in 
Scotland and incorporated in Scotland under the Companies 
(Consolidation) Act 1908. The address of the registered office  
is Whitehall House, 33 Yeaman Shore, Dundee, DD1 4BJ.  
The management head office is 10th Floor, 1 Eversholt Street, 
London, NW1 2DN.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 November 2015 comprise the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
(A) Basis of preparation
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded 
to the nearest hundred thousand Pounds. They are prepared on 
the historical cost basis except for the revaluation to fair value of 
certain financial instruments. UK company law requires directors to 
consider whether it is appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the basis that the Company and the Group are a 
going concern.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position, together 
with details of cash flows and borrowing requirements, are set out 
in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51. The information 
contained in the Strategic Report and Note 20 to the financial 
statements sets out the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital, financial risks and hedging activities 
together with its exposure to credit and liquidity risks. The Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 36 to 41 provides further 
details of the key risks affecting the Group and Company.
The Group funds its day-to-day working capital requirements by 
using the facilities available to it (see Note 20). The Directors have 
reviewed the Group’s medium-term forecasts to determine 
whether the committed banking facilities are sufficient to support 
the Group’s projected liquidity requirements, taking into account 
the planned refinancing of the Group’s Private Placement Note 
ahead of its maturity in September 2016. The Directors have also 
considered whether the Group’s forecast earnings are sufficient to 
meet the covenants associated with its committed facilities.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future, and are not aware of any material uncertainties related to 
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability 
of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern. 
Accordingly, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRS”). At the date of 
authorisation of these financial statements, there are a number of 
Standards, Interpretations and Amendments in issue but not yet 
effective and which have therefore not yet been applied in these 
financial statements (accounting policy X).
On publishing the parent Company financial statements here 
together with the Group financial statements, the Company  
has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income 
statement and related Notes which form a part of these approved 
financial statements.
The adopted IFRS applied by the Group in the preparation of these 
financial statements are those that were effective at 30 November 
2015. The Group has adopted the following new Standards, 
Interpretations and Amendments which became effective during 
the year with no significant impact on the Group’s consolidated 
financial results or position:
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
• IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
• IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
• IAS 32 Financial Instruments (amended) (offsetting financial 
assets and financial liabilities)
• IAS 36 (amended) (Recoverable Amount Disclosures for 
Non-Financial Assets)
• IAS 39 (amended) (Novation of Derivatives and continuation  
of Hedge Accounting)
• IFRIC 21 Levies
(B) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.  
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. In the parent 
Company financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are 
carried at cost less impairment.
The interest of non-controlling interests is initially stated at the 
non-controlling interest’s share of the fair values of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities recognised on the date of acquisition. 
Subsequent to this acquisition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interest is the amount of those interests at initial 
recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent 
changes in equity. Changes in the Group’s interest that do not 
result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. 
The carrying amount of the Group’s interests and the non-
controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the change in their 
relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the 
amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and 
the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised 
directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
(ii) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant 
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of 
the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-
accounted basis, from the date that significant influence 
commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When 
the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the 
Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of 
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group 
has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of an associate.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Significant Accounting 
Policies 90
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
(iii) Joint ventures
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group 
has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The Group accounts for its joint ventures using the equity method. 
The investment in the joint venture is recognised initially at cost 
and is adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture.
(iv) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions and any unrealised gains 
arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements.
(v) Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s businesses 
that represents a separate major line of business or geographical 
area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or 
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. 
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or 
when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for 
sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued 
operation, the comparative income statement is re-presented as if 
the operation had been discontinued from the start of the 
comparative period.
(vi) Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business 
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the 
sum of the acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the 
Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the 
acquiree and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange 
for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised 
in profit or loss as incurred.
(C) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are translated into Pounds Sterling at the 
foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the income 
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into 
Pounds Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the date the fair values 
were determined. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
(ii) Translation of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The 
income statements of foreign operations are translated at an 
average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions. 
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign 
operations, and of related qualifying hedges, are taken to Other 
Comprehensive Income. They are released to the income statement 
upon disposal. Monetary items receivable from or payable to a 
foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely 
to occur in the foreseeable future are treated as part of the net 
investment in the foreign operation.
(iii) Hedging of risks
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward exchange contracts (see accounting 
policies D and E).
(D) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange risks arising from operational and 
investment activities. The Group does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. 
Derivative financial instruments are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value with the resulting gain or loss being recognised in 
profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss depends on 
the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy E).
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be 
measured by reference to the following levels:
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments;
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 
that are observable for the instrument, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); or
Level 3: inputs for the instrument that are not based on observable 
market data (unobservable inputs).
All financial instruments have been measured using a Level 2 
valuation method.
(E) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of 
the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, a firm 
commitment or a highly probable forecast transaction, the 
effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial 
instrument is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. When 
the firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain 
or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial 
measurement of the asset or liability. Otherwise, the cumulative 
gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. The 
ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated 
but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is 
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the 
transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in 
equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
(ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net 
investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges, are taken 
to the translation reserve. They are released to the income 
statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
Significant Accounting Policies continued
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
91
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
In respect of all foreign operations, any differences that have arisen 
since 1 December 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are 
presented as a separate component of equity in the Group financial 
statements. When foreign operations have been disposed of, any 
cumulative differences are recycled to retained earnings.
The Group tests effectiveness on a prospective and retrospective 
basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39.
(F) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see 
accounting policy K). The cost of self-constructed assets includes 
the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion 
of production overheads. Borrowing costs related to the acquisition 
or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major 
components with different useful lives, the components are 
accounted for as separate items of plant, property and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases whereby the Company or the Group assumes substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is 
stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the 
lease, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment 
losses (see accounting policy K). Lease payments are accounted for 
as described in accounting policy R. Where land and buildings are 
held under lease the accounting treatment of the land is 
considered separately from that of buildings.
(iii) Subsequent expenditure
The Company and the Group recognise in the carrying amount of 
an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part 
of such an item when that cost is incurred, if it is probable that the 
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the 
Company or the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. Subsequent costs are capitalised if it is probable that the 
future economic benefits will flow to the entity, and the costs can 
be reliably measured.
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and 
equipment and major components that are accounted for 
separately. Land is not depreciated.
 
The estimated useful lives for significant classes of assets are  
as follows:
– property 10–50 years
– plant and equipment 3–15 years
For other assets, the useful economic lives are:
– fixtures and fittings 3–7 years
– computer hardware 2–5 years
– tooling 1–5 years
– motor vehicles 3–5 years
(G) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill is recognised only in a business combination and is 
measured as a residual. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair 
value of the consideration paid over the share of the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is stated at deemed cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses (see accounting policy K).
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of 
gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, 
is recognised in the income statement when it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, where research findings are 
applied to a plan or design for the production of new or 
substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the 
product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the 
Group has sufficient resources to complete development, future 
economic benefits are probable and if the Group can measure 
reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of 
overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the 
income statement as an expense is incurred. Capitalised 
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses (see accounting policy K).
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses  
(see accounting policy K). Expenditure on internally generated 
goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement when  
it is incurred.
(iv) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such 
lives are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an 
indefinite life are not amortised but are systematically tested for 
impairment annually and further tested at each balance sheet date 
if there is any evidence of potential impairment. Other intangible 
assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives of the identified intangible assets are  
as follows:
– technology based 5–10 years
– customer relationships 4–11 years
– marketing related 10 years
– order backlog 3 months
– non-compete agreements 4–5 years
– software 3–5 years
(H) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and 
thereafter stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses (see 
accounting policy K).
 
(I) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and 
selling expenses.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 9 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle 
and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories  
and bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the 
case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost 
includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal 
operating capacity.
(J) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call 
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of the Company’s or the Group’s cash 
management are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
(K) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Company’s and the Group’s assets, 
other than inventories (accounting policy I), and deferred tax assets 
(accounting policy T) are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any 
such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and 
intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. An impairment 
loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or  
its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units 
are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash generating units (group of units) and then to 
reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit (group of 
units) on a pro rata basis. Impairment losses are recognised in the  
income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversible. Other 
impairment losses are reversed only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised.
(i) Calculation of recoverable amount
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assumptions of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(L) Share capital
(i) Preference share capital
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity 
only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a. they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to 
deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial 
assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions 
that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and 
b. where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s 
own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that 
includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the 
Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will  
be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of  
cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own 
equity instruments. 
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue 
are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the 
amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to 
those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with 
as part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with 
financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends, and 
are recorded directly in equity.
(ii) Dividends
Dividends on redeemable Preference Shares are recognised as a 
liability on an accruals basis. Dividends on Ordinary Shares are 
recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared. 
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date 
that the dividend is declared.
 
(iii) Equity transaction costs
Directly attributable and incremental transaction costs of an equity 
transaction are accounted for as a deduction from equity, net of 
any related income tax benefit.
(M) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, 
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised 
cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the 
borrowings on an effective-interest basis.
(N) Employee benefits
The Company and the Group operate defined benefit pension 
plans and defined contribution pension plans. The Company also 
offers share-based compensation benefits to certain employees of 
the Group.
(i) Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution pension plan is one under which fixed 
contributions are paid to a third party. The Company and the 
Group have no further payment obligations once these 
contributions have been paid. Obligations for contributions to 
defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in 
the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of 
pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement. The 
Company’s and the Group’s net obligation in respect of defined 
benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future benefits that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; 
that benefit is discounted to determine the present value, and the 
fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is the 
yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Company’s or the 
Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified 
actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Company or the 
Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of any 
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan.
Significant Accounting Policies continued
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
93
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
The Group determines the extent to which payments made which 
fulfil obligations to make future contributions to cover an existing 
shortfall will be available as a refund or reduction in future 
contributions after they are paid in to the plan. To the extent that 
the contributions payable will not be available after they are paid  
in to the plan, the Group recognises a liability when the  
obligation arises.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in Other 
Comprehensive Income.
(iii) Equity and equity-related compensation benefits
The Company and Group have applied the requirements of IFRS 2. 
In accordance with the exemption available within the transitional 
provisions of IFRS 1, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity 
instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 
January 2005.
The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled 
share option schemes. Equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of the grant, and the fair value 
determined at the grant date of these payments is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is measured 
taking into account market conditions and by use of the Black-
Scholes model or a Stochastic model, as appropriate. Measurement 
inputs include share price at the measurement date, exercise price 
of the instrument, expected volatility (based on historic volatility 
patterns), the expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate 
(calculated based on UK Gilts with a term commensurate with the 
expected term remaining of the performance period at grant). The 
fair values of cash-settled payments are re-measured at each 
balance sheet date and the cost of these payments is recognised 
over the vesting period, taking into account the re-measurement of 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Low & Bonar 1995 Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (the 
“ESOP”) purchases shares in the Company in order to satisfy 
awards made under the Company’s Long-term Incentive Plan. 
Shares held by the ESOP are treated as treasury shares and a 
deduction is computed in the Company’s issued share capital for 
the purposes of calculating EPS.
 
(O) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company 
or the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the obligation. Provisions for restructuring 
costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for 
the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected 
parties.
(P) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value  
and thereafter stated at their amortised cost. They are not 
interest-bearing.
(Q) Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided 
in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other 
sales related taxes. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer 
returns, rebates and other similar allowances. 
Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has transferred the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the 
buyer (which is predominantly on despatch as most items are sold 
on a CIF basis), the amount of revenue can be measured reliably 
and it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction will 
flow to the Group.
(R) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives are recognised in the income statement as 
an integral part of the total lease expense.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Payments made under finance leases are apportioned between 
finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of  
the liability.
(iii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings 
calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividends on 
redeemable preference shares, net interest in respect of defined 
benefit pension assets and liabilities, interest receivable on funds 
invested, dividend income and gains and losses on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see 
accounting policy E). Interest income is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate.
(S) Non-recurring items
Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented 
within their relevant consolidated income statement category and 
are described in more detail in Note 5. Non-recurring costs includes 
items which are not expected to recur or are not related to the 
underlying trading activities of the Group. The separate reporting 
of non-recurring items helps to provide a better indication of the 
Group’s underlying business performance. Such items may include 
restructuring costs, acquisition-related costs, redundancy costs and 
costs of establishing new ventures.
(T) Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for timing differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following timing 
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that 
the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the timing 
difference and it is probable that the timing difference will not 
reverse in the future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based 
on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 9 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
(U) Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. 
The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the 
Board of Directors.
(V) Significant judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the 
basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects 
only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The significant judgement area for the Group is the valuation of 
the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets and investment in its 
joint venture. Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect 
to goodwill and intangible assets (Notes 11, 12 and 15) using 
commercial judgement and key assumptions and estimates 
including the discount rate, the long term growth rate and the cash 
flow projections to be used. Estimating a value in use amount 
requires management to make an estimate of the future expected 
cash flows from each cash generating unit and also to choose a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of 
those cash flows.
Other judgement areas include the valuation of the Group’s 
property, plant and equipment, the provision for post-employment 
benefits, the impairment provision for trade receivables, the 
valuation of the share-based payments within the Group and key 
taxation judgements.
In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (Note 13), 
useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been 
established using historical experience and an assessment of the 
nature of the assets involved.
Note 4 outlines the key assumptions used to value the Group’s 
post-employment obligations and the sensitivity of obligations to 
changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions include the 
discount rate, the rate of inflation, the mortality assumptions and the 
rate of future pension increases. Measurement of the UK Scheme’s 
defined benefit obligation is particularly sensitive to changes in 
certain key assumptions including the discount rate. An increase or 
decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate would result in a decrease or 
increase in the defined benefit obligation of c £11.2m – £12.5m 
(2014: £11.3m – £12.6m) respectively.
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are 
incorporated within the impairment provisions for trade receivables 
and provision for share-based payments which are described in 
more detail in Note 18 and Note 25, respectively.
The Group has a number of taxation judgements to consider 
including the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the estimation of 
the corporation tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates 
and the total provision for income tax based on management’s 
interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood of 
settlement. Management evaluates each of these risks on a case by 
case basis and regularly re-evaluates their assessment of the likely 
outcome based on the latest fact pattern and information.
(W) Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into contracts to guarantee the 
indebtedness of other companies within the Group, these are 
considered to be insurance arrangements and are accounted for as 
such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as 
a contingent liability unless it becomes probable that the Group 
will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(X) New IFRS not yet applied
On the date on which these financial statements were authorised 
the following Standards, Interpretations and Amendments had 
been issued but were not effective for the year ended 30 
November 2015 (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by 
the EU) and have not yet been adopted by the Group:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and additions to IFRS 9 (issued 
October 2010) – not yet endorsed by the EU
• Amendments to IAS 19 – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 
Contributions
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2011-2013 Cycle
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts – not yet endorsed by  
the EU
• Amendments to IFRS 11 – Accounting for Acquisitions of 
Interests in Joint Operations
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 – Agriculture: Bearer Plants 
• Amendments to IAS 27 – Equity Method in Separate Financial 
Statements 
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture –
not yet endorsed by the EU
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2012-2014 Cycle
• IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – not yet 
endorsed by the EU
• Amendments to IAS1: Disclosure initiative
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 – Investment 
Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception – not yet 
endorsed by the EU
• Amendment to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for 
Unrealised Losses – not yet endorsed by the EU
• IFRS 16 Leases – not yet endorsed by the EU.
It is anticipated that adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on 
the Group’s financial results except for the following standards that 
may alter measurement and disclosure:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and additions to IFRS 9
• IFRS 16 Leases
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a 
reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a 
detailed review has been completed. 
Significant Accounting Policies continued
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
9 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1. Segmental information
The Group’s principal activities are in the international manufacturing and supply of those performance materials commonly referred to  
as technical textiles. For the purposes of management reporting to the chief operating decision-maker, the Group has been reorganised 
during the year into five reportable business units: Building & Industrial, Civil Engineering, Coated Technical Textiles, Interior & 
Transportation and Sports & Leisure. Segment assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to segments as well as those that 
can be allocated on a reasonable basis. The Group’s reportable segments have changed to reflect the new management structure and 
comparative information has been restated on the same basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents, interest-
bearing loans, borrowings, investments in joint ventures and associates, post-employment benefits and corporate assets and expenses. 
Inter-segment sales are not material.
Revenue from external customers
2015
£m
2014
£m
Building & Industrial 61.7 62.7
Civil Engineering 85.4 94.6
Coated Technical Textiles 120.4 128.2
Interior & Transportation 90.0 88.9
Sports & Leisure 38.3 36.2
Revenue for the period 395.8 410.6
Operating profit/(loss)
Before amortisation and 
non-recurring items
After amortisation and  
non-recurring items
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Building & Industrial 8.4 8.0 7.8 7.1
Civil Engineering 3.1 4.1 2.0 2.1
Coated Technical Textiles 12.8 13.7 10.3 10.0
Interior & Transportation 13.2 10.1 11.9 9.2
Sports & Leisure 1.2 0.9 1.2 0.3
Unallocated central (5.9) (5.1) (14.6) (5.5)
Operating profit 32.8 31.7 18.6 23.2
Financial income 0.1 0.1
Financial expense (4.5) (5.5)
Net financing costs (4.4) (5.4)
Share of result of joint venture (1.8) (1.1)
Profit before taxation 12.4 16.7
Taxation (6.2) (4.9)
Profit for the year – continuing operations 6.2 11.8
Profit for the year – discontinued operations – 0.9
Profit for the year 6.2 12.7
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Notes to the Accounts 96
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
1. Segmental information continued
Segment assets, liabilities, other information
2015
Building & 
Industrial
£m
Civil 
Engineering
£m
Coated 
Technical 
Textiles
£m
Interior & 
Transportation
£m
Sports & 
Leisure
£m
Unallocated 
Central
£m
Total
£m
Reportable segment assets 53.1 69.1 125.9 94.3 31.3 – 373.7
Investment in joint venture –
Investment in associates 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents 33.9
Post-employment benefits 5.2
Other unallocated assets 6.3
Total Group assets 419.6
Reportable segment liabilities (14.1) (15.9) (17.5) (17.6) (8.8) – (73.9)
Loans and borrowings (136.0)
Derivative liabilities (0.1)
Post-employment benefits (9.9)
Other unallocated liabilities (27.7)
Total Group liabilities (247.6)
Other information
Additions to property, plant and equipment 2.6 7.5 3.2 19.0 0.8 0.1 33.2
Additions to intangible assets and goodwill 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 – – 0.7
Depreciation 2.2 2.2 3.0 4.3 0.7 – 12.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.5 0.9 2.5 0.2 – – 4.1
Non-recurring items 0.1 0.2 – 1.1 – 8.7 10.1
2014
Building & 
Industrial
£m
Civil 
Engineering
£m
Coated 
Technical 
Textiles
£m
Interior & 
Transportation
£m
Sports & 
Leisure
£m
Unallocated 
Central
£m
Total
£m
Reportable segment assets 59.8 74.0 143.7 83.5 29.8 – 390.8
Investment in joint venture 3.6
Investment in associates 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents 25.8
Post-employment benefits 0.2
Other unallocated assets 4.9
Total Group assets 425.8
Reportable segment liabilities (15.2) (19.1) (19.8) (17.0) (9.0) – (80.1)
Loans and borrowings (113.8)
Post-employment benefits (11.0)
Other unallocated liabilities (30.4)
Total Group liabilities (235.3)
Other information
Additions to property, plant and equipment 2.6 3.8 3.1 8.5 1.1 – 19.1
Additions to intangible assets and goodwill 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.2 –  – 1.2
Depreciation 2.1 2.0 3.6 4.3 0.7 – 12.7
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.7 1.2 2.8 0.5 –  – 5.2
Non-recurring items 0.2 0.8 0.9 0.4 0.6 0.4 3.3
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
9 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
1. Segmental information continued
The geographical analysis of external revenue by location of customers and non-current assets by location of assets, as presented to the 
chief operating decision-maker, is as follows:
External revenue by location of customers
Non-current assets by  
location of assets
2015
£m
2015
%
2014
£m
2014
%
2015
£m
2014
£m
Western Europe 212.1 53.6 231.1 56.3 158.3 179.9
Eastern Europe 34.1 8.6 43.1 10.5 13.7 10.2
North America 91.4 23.1 75.0 18.3 24.7 24.5
Middle East 16.5 4.2 20.7 5.0 8.1 7.9
Asia 26.6 6.7 26.0 6.3 27.2 11.3
Rest of the World 15.1 3.8 14.7 3.6 – –
Total 395.8 100.0 410.6 100.0 232.0 233.8
Revenues arising in the UK, which is the parent Company’s country of domicile, were £23.3m (2014: £25.6m). The net book value of 
non-current assets located in the UK at 30 November 2015 was £6.4m (2014: £1.5m). In the current and prior year more than 10% of the 
Group’s revenues arose in Germany. The net book value of non-current assets located in Germany at 30 November 2015 was £66.6m 
(2014: £78.4m) and revenues in the year to 30 November 2015 were £55.6m (2014: £69.8m).
2. Profit before taxation
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total operating costs 377.2 387.4
Comprises:
Cost of sales 287.9 304.6
Distribution costs 32.6 33.6
Administrative and other costs 42.2 42.0
Research and development expenditure recognised as an expense 4.4 3.9
Non-recurring items 10.1 3.3
Total operating costs above include:
Staff costs 84.3 81.2
Inventories
 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 167.3 198.9
 Write down of inventories recognised as an expense 0.3 0.1
 Change in provisions held against inventories (0.1) 0.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12.4 12.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 6.1
Exchange differences recognised as a (gain)/loss (1.3) 0.6
Loss on disposal of non-current assets – –
Amounts payable under operating leases:
 Property 3.6 4.1
 Plant and equipment 1.9 1.5
The balance of operating costs relates to other external charges.
Auditor’s remuneration
During the year the Group obtained the following services from its auditor at costs detailed below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.3 0.3
Non-audit services:
 Corporate tax compliance 0.1 0.1
 Corporate tax consultancy 0.1 0.1
 Other non-audit services – – 
The total amount paid to the auditor was £0.6m (2014: £0.7m).
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 98
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
3. Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group, expressed as full time equivalents (FTEs), during the year including  
Executive Directors was:
Group
2015 2014
Production 1,521 1,502
Sales 295 296
Administrative 261 246
2,077 2,044
The average number of FTEs employed by the Company during the year was 19 (2014: 16).
The aggregate staff costs were:
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 68.0 63.9
Social security costs 13.0 13.4
Pension costs 3.3 3.9
84.3 81.2
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 3.3 2.4
Social security costs 0.4 0.3
Pension costs 0.2 0.3
3.9 3.0
The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 52 and 53.
4. Post-employment benefits
The Group operates a number of pension schemes in the UK and overseas. These are either defined benefit or defined contribution in 
nature. The assets of all the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
(a) Defined contribution schemes
Various defined contribution pension schemes exist around the Group. These are accounted for on a contribution payable basis. The total 
cost charged to income in respect of defined contribution pension schemes was £2.4m (2014: £3.1m).
(b) Defined benefit schemes
(i) United Kingdom
The UK defined benefit scheme is a funded pension scheme, closed to future accrual of benefits, providing benefits linked to inflation. 
The weighted duration of the expected benefit payments from the scheme is around 15 years.
The UK defined benefit scheme (the “Scheme”) was independently valued by a qualified actuary at 31 March 2014 using the projected 
unit method. The main assumption in carrying out the valuation was for investment returns of 5.4% per annum in respect of investments 
in higher risk assets and 3.65% in respect of lower risk assets. At 31 March 2014, the total market value of assets in the UK scheme was 
£159.9m. The overall level of funding was 84.3%. The net income statement charge for the year ended 30 November 2015 for the UK 
pension scheme was £0.7m (2014: £0.9m). The Scheme is held by the Company and all of the UK disclosures relate to the Company and 
the Group.
Following the 2014 valuation of the UK Scheme, the Company agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustee of the Scheme under 
which the Company pays contributions of £3.3m by 30 June 2014 and then £3.8m per annum by no later than 30 June each year until 
2021 and a final payment of £0.5m by 30 June 2022. The Company is required to make further contributions to the UK scheme if the 
Group’s net cash inflow before distributions exceeds certain agreed levels provided that the total contributions payable in any one year 
are no more than £4.0m in 2015, £4.2m in 2016 and £4.3m thereafter and the total contributions payable under the revised schedule do 
not exceed £30.4m. 
On 3 December 2015, the Group completed a medically-underwritten buy-in of £34m of UK Scheme liabilities, to reduce the Scheme’s 
exposure to interest rate, inflation and mortality risks and to provide a more effective liability and cash flow match. Following this,  
the Company has agreed with the Trustee of the Scheme to establish a revised schedule of contributions for the Scheme to increase  
the amount of the annual contributions payable above by £175,000 per annum.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
99
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
4. Post-employment benefits continued
(i) United Kingdom continued
There is a risk that the Group may be required to increase its contributions into its defined benefit pension schemes to cover funding 
shortfalls. The funding may be affected by poor investment performance of pension fund investments, changes in the discount rate 
applied and longer life expectancy of members. This risk is mitigated by the main Group scheme being closed to new members and to 
future benefit accrual along with the assumptions, including funding rates, being set in line with the actuaries’ recommendations.  
Regular dialogue also takes place with the Scheme Trustee, and the Board regularly discusses pension fund strategy.
(ii) Non-UK
Defined benefit schemes are held in Germany, Belgium and the United States. Further disclosure on these schemes is detailed below. 
Given the relative immateriality of these schemes their results have been combined in the following disclosures. Defined benefit schemes 
also exist in the Group’s Dutch businesses, which are members of an industry-wide scheme; it is not possible to separately identify assets 
and liabilities and therefore these schemes are accounted for on a contribution payable basis. 
(iii) Financial assumptions
Management determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with their actuaries. The application of different assumptions could 
have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and the balance sheet in respect of post-employment benefits. The valuations require the exercise of judgement in relation to 
various assumptions, including the discount rate, future pension increases and employee and pensioner demographics. The assumptions 
vary among the countries in which the Group operates and there may be an inter-dependency between some of the assumptions.
The financial assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations are:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes
Weighted average  
assumptions
2015
%
2014
%
2015
%
2014
%
Discount rate 3.50 3.60 3.25 3.00
Future salary increases – – 2.25 2.25
Future pension increases 2.90 2.90 1.80 1.80
Inflation increase (Consumer Price Inflation) 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
Health care cost trend – immediate – – 7.0 7.0
Health care cost trend – ultimate – – 4.5 4.5
In assessing the Group’s post-employment liabilities, management monitor mortality assumptions and use up-to-date mortality tables. 
Allowance is made for expected future increases in life expectancy. The figures assume that a UK Scheme male member, currently aged 
65, will survive a further 21.5 years and a female member for a further 23.6 years (2014: male – 21.5 years, female – 23.5 years). They also 
assume that a UK Scheme male member currently aged 45, will survive a further 43.3 years and a female member for a further 45.5 years 
(2014: male – 43.2 years, female – 45.4 years). Management consider that the assumptions used are appropriate approximations to the 
life expectancy of Scheme members in the light of scheme-specific experience and more widely available statistics.
(iv) Financial impact of schemes
The total amount recognised for defined benefit schemes is as follows:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 178.1 176.5 9.9 10.0 188.0 186.5
Present value of defined benefit obligations (172.9) (176.3) (19.8) (21.0) (192.7) (197.3)
Net asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 5.2 0.2 (9.9) (11.0) (4.7) (10.8)
Amounts recognised as a charge to the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current service cost – – 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Net interest (income)/cost (0.1) 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.4
Administration costs 0.8 0.8 – – 0.8 0.8
0.7 0.9 0.6 0.6 1.3 1.5
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 100
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
4. Post-employment benefits continued
(iv) Financial impact of schemes continued
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net actuarial gain/(loss) in the year due to: 2.2 (0.8) 1.9 1.6
 – Changes in financial assumptions (0.9) (15.8) (1.3) (13.7)
 – Changes in demographic assumptions – (2.4) – (1.9)
 – Experience adjustments on benefit obligations 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4
 Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets 1.8   16.1 1.8 15.8
Associated deferred tax – 0.8 – –
The changes in the net assets/(liabilities) recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening balance sheet asset/(liability) 0.2 (3.8) (11.0) (8.9) (10.8) (12.7)
Amount recognised in income statement (0.7) (0.9) (0.7) (0.6) (1.4) (1.5)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income 1.9 1.6 0.3 (2.4) 2.2 (0.8)
Contributions paid 3.8 3.3 0.7 0.7 4.5 4.0
Past service cost – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Exchange gain – – 0.8 0.1 0.8 0.1
Closing balance sheet asset/(liability) 5.2 0.2 (9.9) (11.0) (4.7) (10.8)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation 176.3 163.2 21.0 18.5 197.3 181.7
Current service cost – – 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Interest cost 6.1 7.0 0.7 0.7 6.8 7.7
Past service cost – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Actuarial loss/(gain) due to: (0.1) 14.2 (0.3) 2.7 (0.4) 16.9
 – Changes in financial assumptions 1.3 13.7 (0.4) 2.1 0.9 15.8
 – Changes in demographic assumptions – 1.9 – 0.5 – 2.4
 – Experience adjustments on obligations (1.4) (1.4) 0.1 0.1 (1.3) (1.3)
Benefits paid (9.4) (8.1) (1.0) (1.0) (10.4) (9.1)
Benefits paid directly by the employer – – – – – –
Exchange adjustments – – (0.9) (0.1) (0.9) (0.1)
Closing defined benefit obligation 172.9 176.3 19.8 21.0 192.7 197.3
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
UK schemes Non-UK schemes Total
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 176.5 159.4 10.0 9.6 186.5 169.0
Interest on scheme assets 6.2 6.9 0.4 0.4 6.6 7.3
Actual return on scheme assets less interest on scheme assets 1.8 15.8 – 0.3 1.8 16.1
Administration costs (0.8) (0.8) – – (0.8) (0.8)
Contributions by employers 3.8 3.3 0.7 0.7 4.5 4.0
Benefits paid (9.4) (8.1) (1.0) (1.0) (10.4) (9.1)
Exchange adjustments – – (0.2) – (0.2) –
Closing fair value of scheme assets 178.1 176.5 9.9 10.0 188.0 186.5
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
10 1
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
4. Post-employment benefits continued
(iv) Financial impact of schemes continued
The fair value of the UK scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows:
2015
£m
2015
%
2014
£m
2014
%
Equity securities 33.7 19 40.2 23
Debt securities – – – –
Diversified growth funds 73.5 41 72.2 41
LDI funds 37.3 21 35.8 20
Property 19.4 11 18.0 10
Cash and other 14.2 8 10.3 6
178.1 100 176.5 100
The assets are invested in quoted pooled funds, apart from £73.5m invested in a segregated diversified growth fund for which quoted 
prices are not available. The scheme uses Liability Driven Investment (“LDI”) funds to help manage investment risk.
The fair value of the non-UK scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows:
 
2015
£m
2015
%
2014
£m
2014
%
Equity securities 4.6 47 4.3 43
Debt securities 5.1 51 5.2 52
Property 0.1 1 0.1 1
Cash and other 0.1 1 0.4 4
9.9 100 10.0 100
Sensitivity analysis of significant assumption on the UK scheme at 30 November is as follows:
Decrease/(increase) in obligation (£m)
2015 2014
-0.5%pa +0.5%pa -0.5%pa +0.5%pa
Discount rate (12.5) 11.2 (12.6) 11.3
Inflation and pension increases (Consumer Price Inflation) 6.9 (7.3) 6.7 (7.0)
-1 year +1 year -1 year +1 year
Life expectancy 7.0 (7.1) 7.2 (7.3)
Consistent with the previous year’s figures, these sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit 
obligation in isolation, and assume no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
5. Amortisation and non-recurring items
During the year the Group recognised significant non-recurring items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing 
operations as detailed below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Amounts charged to operating profit
China factory start-up costs 1.1 0.2
Impairment of investment in joint venture 8.2 –
Reorganisation costs 0.4 2.2
Pension administration costs 0.2 0.3
Pension buy-in costs 0.2 –
Acquisition-related costs – 0.1
Site clean-up costs – 0.5
Total non-recurring items 10.1 3.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4.1 5.2
Total charge to operating profit 14.2 8.5
Share of results of joint venture – –
Total charge to profit before tax 14.2 8.5
During the year construction and start-up costs relating to the Group’s construction of a new manufacturing facility in Changzhou, China, 
totalled £1.1m (2014: £0.2m).
The Group impaired the carrying value of its investment in, and loan to, its joint venture Bonar Natpet LLC, resulting in a charge of £8.2m 
(2014: £nil). Further details are given in Note 15.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 10 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
Reorganisation costs of £0.4m (2014: £2.2m) were incurred in the integration of the Group’s operations into a single global business and, 
in the prior year, relocating part of the Yarns business from Dundee to Abu Dhabi. 
The Group also incurred £0.2m (2014: £0.3m) of non-recurring pension administration costs relating to its UK defined benefit scheme. A 
further £0.2m (2014: £nil) of professional fees were incurred in respect of the medically-underwritten buy-in of £34m of UK pension 
scheme liabilities, which completed on 3 December 2015.
Acquisition-related costs of £0.1m were expensed in the prior year. A further £0.5m of non-recurring costs, and £0.4m of capital 
expenditure, were incurred in the prior year on site clean-up and environmental rectification work to bring Texiplast in line with Group 
environmental, health and safety standards.
6. Financial income and financial expense
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial income
Interest income 0.1 0.1
0.1 0.1
Financial expense
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (3.9) (4.5)
Amortisation of bank arrangement fees (0.4) (0.6)
Net interest on pension scheme net liabilities (0.2) (0.4)
(4.5) (5.5)
7. Taxation
Recognised in the income statement
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current tax
UK corporation tax
– current year – – 
– prior year – (0.1)
Overseas tax
– current year 8.5 6.7
– prior year (0.1) 0.6
Total current tax 8.4 7.2
Deferred tax (2.2) (2.3)
Total tax charge in the income statement 6.2 4.9
The amount of deferred tax income relating to changes in tax rates is £nil (2014: £0.1m).
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation 
tax of 20.33% (2014: 21.67%) to the profit before tax are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 12.4 16.7
Profit before tax from discontinued operations – 0.9
Tax charge at 20.33% (2014: 21.67%) 2.5 3.7
Expenses not deductible and income not taxable (0.3) (1.5)
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 2.5 1.3
Current tax losses not utilised 2.1 1.4
Other differences (0.5) (0.5)
Prior period adjustments (0.1) 0.5
Total tax charge for the year 6.2 4.9
Deferred tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income
2015
£m
2014
£m
Actuarial gains and losses relating to post-employment benefit obligations – 0.8
Total of items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – 0.8
A 1% reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 21% to 20% took effect from 1 April 2015 and further reductions from 20% 
to 19% and from 19% to 18% will take effect from 1 April 2017 and from 1 April 2020 respectively. Given that the Group does not 
expect to pay corporation tax in the UK in the foreseeable future, this change is not considered to have any material impact on the Group.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
103
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
8. Profits of the Company
The Company has not presented its own income statement as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The profit after tax 
was £11.2m (2014: £8.3m).
9. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year were as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 30 November 2014 – 1.75 pence per share (2013: 1.75 pence per share) 5.8 5.7
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 November 2015 – 0.98 pence per share (2014: 0.95 pence per share) 3.2 3.1
9.0 8.8
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 November 2015 of 1.80 pence per share which will 
absorb an estimated £6.0m of shareholders’ funds. This has not been provided for in these accounts because the dividend was proposed 
after the year end. If it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 31 March 2016, it will be paid on 
14 April 2016 to Ordinary Shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 18 March 2016.
During the year the Board declared a final dividend on Ordinary Shares in relation to the year ended 30 November 2014 of 1.75 pence per 
share, which was paid to Ordinary Shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 20 March 2015.
The Directors declared an interim dividend on Ordinary Shares in relation to the year ended 30 November 2015 of 0.98 pence per share, 
which was paid to Ordinary Shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 28 August 2015.
 
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders by the weighted-average number of 
Ordinary Shares outstanding, excluding those held by the ESOP which are treated as cancelled for the purpose of this calculation. For 
diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive 
potential Ordinary Shares. The Group has two classes of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: those share options granted to employees 
where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares during the year; and those long-term 
incentive plan awards for which the performance criteria have been satisfied.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
 
2015 2014
Earnings
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
(millions)
Per share 
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
(millions)
Per share 
amount
pence
Statutory – continuing operations
 Basic earnings per share 5.7 328.116 1.73 11.5 327.035 3.50
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment – 6.230 – 5.572
 Diluted earnings per share 5.7 334.346 1.70 11.5 332.607 3.44
Statutory – discontinued operations
 Basic earnings per share – 328.116 – 0.9 327.035 0.26
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment – 6.230 – 5.572
 Diluted earnings per share – 334.346 – 0.9 332.607 0.26
Statutory – total operations
 Basic earnings per share 5.7 328.116 1.73 12.4 327.035 3.76
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment – 6.230 – 5.572
 Diluted earnings per share 5.7 334.346 1.70 12.4 332.607 3.70
Before amortisation and non-recurring items – continuing 
and total operations
 Basic earnings per share 18.5 328.116 5.61 17.9 327.035 5.46
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders
 Effect of dilutive items
 Share-based payment – 6.230 – 5.572
 Diluted earnings per share 18.5 334.346 5.51 17.9 332.607 5.37
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 10 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
11. Goodwill
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost
At 1 December 86.4 89.6
Exchange adjustments (8.4) (3.2)
At 30 November 78.0 86.4
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 December 8.4 8.4
Impairment loss recognised – –
At 30 November 8.4 8.4
Net book value at 30 November 69.6 78.0
 
Cash generating units
Goodwill is allocated to the grouping of cash generating units (“CGUs”) which have been identified according to the principal markets in 
which each business operates. Following the Group’s reorganisation in May 2015, goodwill previously reported within the Bonar CGU was 
reallocated to the Building & Industrial, Civil Engineering and Interior & Transportation CGUs based on where the business now resides. A 
summary of the carrying value presented at CGU level is shown below: 
Group
2015
Net book
value
£m
2014
Net book
value
£m
Cash generating unit
Building & Industrial 9.0 10.3
Civil Engineering 17.0 18.3
Coated Technical Textiles 31.1 35.2
Interior & Transportation 12.5 14.2
Sports & Leisure – –
At 30 November 69.6 78.0
The Group tests goodwill values annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The 
recoverable amounts are determined using value in use calculations for each CGU based on projected cash flows, discounted to calculate 
the net present value. The approach to what is considered to be the key assumptions within the impairment reviews is outlined below:
Cash flow projections
Cash flow projections for each CGU are derived from the most recent annual budgets and five year plans approved by the Board, which 
take into account current market conditions and the long-term average and projected growth rates for each of the key markets served by 
the CGUs, along with forecast changes to selling prices and direct costs and CGU-specific forecast risks and potential cash volatilities. 
These cash flow projections are based on management’s expectations of future changes in markets informed by various external sources 
of information.
Long-term growth rates
The value in use calculations assume terminal growth rates of 2% (2014: between 2% and 2.5%) beyond year five.
Discount rate
Forecast pre-tax cash flows for each CGU are discounted to net present value using the Group’s discount rate, calculated based on 
external advice. Pre-tax discount rates ranged from 12.4% to 12.8% (2014: 10.8% to 11.1%) to calculate value in use for CGUs, reflecting 
management’s views of the individual risks and rewards associated with each CGU.
Sensitivity
Whilst management believe that the assumptions used in impairment testing are realistic, it is possible that variations in key assumptions 
could affect the recoverable amounts. Accordingly a sensitivity analysis has been performed by varying key assumptions whilst holding 
other variables constant. 
All CGUs except Civil Engineering performed satisfactorily in 2015 and their recoverable amounts show significant headroom compared to 
their carrying value when reasonably likely changes are made to key assumptions.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
105
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
11. Goodwill continued
Civil Engineering continued to be impacted by weak European demand and production inefficiencies at one of its manufacturing sites in 
Belgium. The 2016 budget and five year plan for Civil Engineering, which has been used in preparing the cash flow projections in the 
impairment review, assumes that near-term demand levels will remain subdued while performance improvements will be realised through 
capital and operational investments.
A summary of the Civil Engineering CGU’s sensitivity to changes in the key assumptions, setting out the required changes in cash flow, 
growth rate and discount rate beyond which an impairment would be triggered, is shown below:
Cash flow Long-term growth rates Discount rate
Goodwill 
2015
Sensitivity 
(decrease)
Current 
assumption
Sensitivity 
(rate)
Current 
assumption
Sensitivity 
(rate) £m
Civil Engineering 14% 2% 0% 12.4% 14.0% 17.0
12. Intangible assets
Group
Computer
software
£m
Research and
development
£m
Order
backlog
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Marketing
related
£m
Technology
based
£m
Non-
compete
agreements
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 November 2013 3.9 4.4 0.4 34.0 14.6 21.0 1.3 79.6
Exchange adjustment (0.2) (0.2) – (1.3) (0.6) (0.8) (0.1) (3.2)
Additions 0.2 1.0 – – – – – 1.2
At 30 November 2014 3.9 5.2 0.4 32.7 14.0 20.2 1.2 77.6
Exchange adjustment (0.4) (0.7) – (3.4) (1.7) (2.2) (0.1) (8.5)
Additions – 0.7 – – – – – 0.7
At 30 November 2015 3.5 5.2 0.4 29.3 12.3 18.0 1.1 69.8
Aggregate amortisation
At 30 November 2013 2.2 1.7 0.4 17.8 6.6 15.6 1.3 45.6
Exchange adjustment (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.6) (0.3) (0.6) (0.1) (1.9)
Charge for the year 0.5 0.4 – 2.6 1.1 1.5 – 6.1
At 30 November 2014 2.6 2.0 0.3 19.8 7.4 16.5 1.2 49.8
Exchange adjustment (0.4) (0.2) – (2.1) (0.9) (1.8) (0.1) (5.5)
Charge for the year 0.4 0.7 – 2.2 1.0 0.9 – 5.2
At 30 November 2015 2.6 2.5 0.3 19.9 7.5 15.6 1.1 49.5
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 0.9 2.7 0.1 9.4 4.8 2.4 – 20.3
At 30 November 2014 1.3 3.2 0.1 12.9 6.6 3.7 – 27.8
At 30 November 2013 1.7 2.7 – 16.2 8.0 5.4 – 34.0
Notes
1 Marketing-related intangible assets are assets that are primarily used in the marketing or promotion of products or services. Such assets include trademarks, trade names, 
service marks and internet domain names. 
2 Non-compete agreements prohibit a seller from competing with the purchaser of a business. 
3 Customer relationships consist of customer lists, customer contracts and relationships and non-contractual customer relationships. 
4 Technology-based intangible assets relate to innovations and technological advances and include patented and unpatented technology, databases and trade secrets. 
5 Research and development assets relate to expenditure incurred in the course of research where findings may be applied to a plan or design for the production of new or 
substantially improved products and processes.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 106
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
13. Property, plant and equipment
Group Company
Property
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Assets under
construction
£m
Total
£m
Property
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Assets under
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 November 2013 51.2 214.4 6.4 272.0 0.4 – – 0.4
Exchange adjustment (1.6) (4.7) 0.2 (6.1) – – – –
Additions 0.6 5.1 13.4 19.1 – – – –
Reclassifications 0.6 6.6 (7.0) 0.2 – – – –
Disposals – (0.8) – (0.8) – – – –
At 30 November 2014 50.8 220.6 13.0 284.4 0.4 – – 0.4
Exchange adjustment (4.9) (16.6) (1.0) (22.5) – – – –
Additions 0.5 6.2 26.5 33.2 – – – –
Reclassifications 0.1 2.5 (2.6) – – – – –
Disposals – (1.1) – (1.1) – – – –
At 30 November 2015 46.5 211.6 35.9 294.0 0.4 – – 0.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 November 2013 19.9 137.9 – 157.8 0.1 – – 0.1
Exchange adjustment (0.6) (3.9) – (4.5) – – – –
Charge for the year 1.1 11.6 – 12.7 0.1 – – 0.1
Reclassifications (1.4) 1.3 – (0.1) – – – –
Disposals – (0.8) – (0.8) – – – –
At 30 November 2014 19.0 146.1 – 165.1 0.2 – – 0.2
Exchange adjustment (1.9) (12.5) – (14.4) – – – –
Charge for the year 1.3 11.1 – 12.4 – – – –
Reclassifications – – – – – – – –
Disposals – (1.1) – (1.1) – – – –
At 30 November 2015 18.4 143.6 – 162.0 0.2 – – 0.2
Net book value
At 30 November 2015 28.1 68.0 35.9 132.0 0.2 – – 0.2
At 30 November 2014 31.8 74.5 13.0 119.3 0.2 – – 0.2
At 30 November 2013 31.3 76.5 6.4 114.2 0.3 – – 0.3
The carrying value of freehold land not depreciated at 30 November 2015 was £3.5m (2014: £4.0m). Committed capital expenditure at 
30 November 2015 totalled £3.6m (2014: £11.9m).
14. Investment in subsidiaries
 Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost at 1 December and 30 November 103.5 103.5
Provision for impairment at 1 December and 30 November (9.9) (9.9)
Net book value at 1 December and 30 November 93.6 93.6
The subsidiary undertakings are shown within Note 34.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
10 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
15. Investment in joint venture
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost
At 1 December 3.6 4.7
Equity investment in joint venture 1.1 –
Share of retained loss (1.8) (1.1)
Exchange adjustment 0.1 –
At 30 November 3.0 3.6
Impairment provision
At 1 December – –
Impairment of investment in joint venture (3.0) –
At 30 November (3.0) –
Net book value at 30 November – 3.6
During the year the carrying value of the Group’s investment in its joint venture was reviewed in the light of continuing losses, driven by a 
reduction in infrastructure spend in the Middle East, and the resulting over-capacity in the market. This calculation compared the 
estimated value in use of the Group’s investment – based on the entity’s projected cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 
12.3% to calculate its net present value – to its carrying value in the accounts, resulting in an impairment charge of £3.0m. A further 
£5.2m was provided against loans receivable from the joint venture.
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint venture is shown below:
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total assets 37.8 34.0
Total liabilities (31.9) (26.8)
Net assets 5.9 7.2
Group share of net assets 3.0 3.6
Total revenue 12.4 3.8
Total loss for the year (3.6) (2.2)
Group share of loss for the year (1.8) (1.1)
The joint venture is shown within Note 34.
16. Investment in associates
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 December 0.5 0.4
Share of retained profit – 0.1
Dividends received – –
At 30 November 0.5 0.5
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its associated undertakings is shown below:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Total assets 1.1 1.3
Total liabilities – –
Net assets 1.1 1.3
Group share of net assets 0.5 0.5
Total revenue 3.1 3.4
Total profit for the year 0.2 0.3
Group share of profit for the year – 0.1
The associates are shown within Note 34.
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 108
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
17. Inventories
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Raw materials 20.6 19.7
Work in progress 14.1 14.6
Finished goods 47.9 56.6
82.6 90.9
Inventories are presented in the balance sheet net of provision for impairment of obsolete and slow moving items. Impairment is 
estimated by management based upon prior experience and their assessment of the current and future economic environment. The write 
down of inventories is included in cost of sales.
18. Trade and other receivables
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Trade receivables 65.3 65.6
Provision for impairment of receivables (2.4) (2.8)
Net trade receivables 62.9 62.8
Other receivables 4.9 10.0
Prepayments and accrued income 3.3 2.5
71.1 75.3
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 22.3 22.7
Current
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 148.2 149.8
Other receivables 0.4 0.3
Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.4
149.0 150.5
Included within the Group’s other receivables is £nil (2014: £4.7m) owed by Bonar Natpet LLC, a joint venture. The Group has an 
established credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard 
payment terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings and bank references, where available.  
Purchase limits are established for each customer; these limits are reviewed quarterly. The Group has a long history of trading with a 
number of its customers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and  
other receivables.
Impairment losses
The age profile of gross trade receivables at the balance sheet date was:
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Not past due 52.9 54.3
0–30 days past due 5.8 4.5
31–120 days past due 2.9 2.2
More than 120 days past due 3.7 4.6
65.3 65.6
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
109
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
18. Trade and other receivables continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Balance at 1 December (2.8) (3.1)
Increased during the year (0.2) (0.4)
Released during the year – 0.2
Utilised during the year 0.1 0.3
Exchange adjustments 0.5 0.2
(2.4) (2.8)
The allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables at the end of the year was allocated against aged receivables as follows:
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Not past due – –
0–30 days past due – –
31–120 days past due (0.1) (0.1)
More than 120 days past due (2.3) (2.7)
(2.4) (2.8)
Provisions for impairment of receivables are estimated by management based on prior experience and their assessment of the  
current economic environment. The trade receivables impairment provision as at 30 November 2015 was £2.4m (2014: £2.8m). 
Management believe that this provision is adequate to cover the risk of bad debts and exposure to credit risk. At 30 November 2015, 
68.9% (2014: 64.7%) of trade receivables were insured.
19. Trade and other payables
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Trade payables 52.4 57.3
Other taxes and social security 2.2 2.2
Other payables 7.5 7.1
Accruals 14.9 15.8
77.0 82.4
Current tax liabilities 5.7 4.8
82.7 87.2
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 18.2 16.0
Other taxes and social security 0.1 0.1
Other payables 6.3 4.0
Accruals 1.8 1.0
26.4 21.1
Current tax liabilities – –
26.4 21.1
Included within the Group’s and Company’s other payables is £5.3m (2014: £3.1m) owed to National Petrochemical Industrial Company 
(Natpet), the Group’s joint venture partner in Bonar Natpet LLC.
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 1 10
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management
The objectives of the Group’s treasury policies are to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet the Group’s operational and strategic needs  
and the management of financial risk at optimal cost. The main financial risks to which the Group is exposed are foreign currency risk, 
credit risk and interest rate risk. Group treasury policies are set by the Board and permit the use of conventional financial instruments  
and certain derivative instruments to manage and mitigate these risks. There were no changes to this policy in the year ended  
30 November 2015.
The Group treasury function is responsible for implementing Group policy and for managing the Group’s relationships with its key 
providers of debt and other treasury services. The treasury function is operated as a cost centre and no speculative transactions are 
permitted. Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the Board. Controls over exposure changes and transaction 
authenticity are in place. The treasury function is subject to periodic independent review by the internal audit function.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet,  
are as follows:
 
Group Company
Fair value
2015
£m
Book value
2015
£m
Fair value
2014
£m
Book value
2014
£m
Fair value
2015
£m
Book value
2015
£m
Fair value
2014
£m
Book value
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 33.9 33.9 25.8 25.8 5.3 5.3 3.6 3.6
Trade and other receivables 67.8 67.8 72.8 72.8 170.9 170.9 172.8 172.8
Trade and other payables (84.3) (84.3) (89.2) (89.2) (26.4) (26.4) (21.1) (21.1)
Derivative liabilities (0.1) (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.1) – –
Bank overdrafts – – – – (2.3) (2.3) (8.0) (8.0)
Preference shares (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees 1.2 1.2 1.5 1.5 1.2 1.2 1.5 1.5
Floating rate borrowings (105.2) (105.2) (78.9) (78.9) (67.3) (67.3) (63.3) (63.3)
Fixed rate borrowings (32.0) (31.6) (36.7) (36.0) (32.0) (31.6) (36.7) (36.0)
(119.1) (118.7) (105.1) (104.4) 48.9 49.3 48.4 49.1
Estimation of fair value
The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table are summarised  
as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand. Where it is not 
repayable on demand then the fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest 
at the balance sheet date.
Trade and other receivables/payables
The fair value of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, 
discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date if the effect is material.
Interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of interest-bearing assets and liabilities that bear interest at floating rates approximates to their carrying value. The fair value 
of the fixed interest financial liabilities is determined by discounting future contracted cash flows, using appropriate yield curves, to their 
net present value.
Forward exchange contracts
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is based on their publicly available market price. If this is not available, forward 
contracts are marked to market based on the current spot rate.
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
111
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
Funding and liquidity
The Group’s borrowing facilities at 30 November 2015 totalled €232.5m (£163.1m) (2014: €210.0m (£167.2m)), comprising:
• a €165m unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of four of its key relationship banks, committed until July 
2019, which bears interest at between 1.0% to 2.0% above LIBOR depending on the ratio of the Group’s net debt to EBITDA at each 
of its half-year and year-end reporting dates; and 
• a €45m senior loan note raised by private placement with Pricoa Capital Group Limited; this funding is unsecured and is scheduled for 
repayment in September 2016, and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.9% per annum for the term of the loan. 
• RMB150m of unsecured revolving and term loan facilities, maturing in June 2020, arranged in July 2015 to finance the construction of 
the Group’s manufacturing facility in Changzhou, China.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
• to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it may continue to provide returns for shareholders and 
benefits for other stakeholders; and 
• to provide an adequate return to shareholders commensurate with the level of risk. 
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Group manages its capital structure and makes changes in light of 
changes in economic conditions and risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the 
Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce 
debt. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its 
subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group’s capital structure is as follows:
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net debt 102.1 88.0
Total equity 172.0 190.5
274.1 278.5
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Sterling – (0.8) – –
Euro 16.3 10.3 – –
US Dollar 5.9 6.1 – –
Other 11.7 10.2 5.3 3.6
33.9 25.8 5.3 3.6
Analysis of interest-bearing borrowings
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Borrowings falling due within one year or on demand
Bank loans and overdrafts – – 2.5 8.0
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 31.5 – 31.5 –
31.5 – 34.0 8.0
Borrowings falling due after more than one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 104.1 77.6 66.0 62.0
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 – 35.8 – 35.8
Other borrowings
– Preference shares 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
104.5 113.8 66.4 98.2
All of the Company’s and Group’s borrowings are unsecured.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 1 12
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
The following tables show the undiscounted contracted cash flows and maturities of financial liabilities, together with their carrying 
amounts and average effective interest rates, as at the balance sheet date:
Group 2015
Effective 
rate 
%
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
<1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
>5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Multicurrency revolving facility
– Sterling 2.1 (34.0) (36.7) (0.7) (0.7) (35.3) –
– Euro 1.6 (48.5) (51.4) (0.8) (0.8) (49.8) –
– US Dollar 1.8 (12.3) (13.1) (0.2) (0.2) (12.7) –
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 5.9 (31.6) (33.2) (33.2) – – –
RMB150m facility 5.6 (10.4) (13.0) (0.6) (0.6) (11.8)
Preference shares 5.8 (0.4) (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees 1.2 – – – – –
(136.0) (147.8) (35.5) (2.3) (109.6) (0.4)
Trade and other payables (84.3) (84.3) (82.7) (1.6) – –
Derivative financial liabilities:
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
– Outflow (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – – –
(220.4) (232.2) (118.3) (3.9) (109.6) (0.4)
Group 2014
Effective
rate
%
Carrying 
amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
<1 year
£m
1–2 years
£m
2–5 years
£m
>5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Multicurrency revolving facility
– Sterling 2.1 (27.0) (29.7) (0.6) (0.6) (28.5) –
– Euro 2.2 (41.7) (46.0) (0.9) (0.9) (44.2) –
– US Dollar 2.1 (10.2) (11.2) (0.2) (0.2) (10.8) –
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 5.9 (36.0) (39.9) (2.1) (37.8) – –
Preference shares 5.8 (0.4) (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees 1.5 – – – – –
(113.8) (127.2) (3.8) (39.5) (83.5) (0.4)
Trade and other payables (89.2) (89.2) (87.2) (2.0) – –
Derivative financial liabilities:
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
– Outflow – – – – – –
(203.0) (216.4) (91.0) (41.5) (83.5) (0.4)
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1 13
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
Company 2015
Effective 
rate 
%
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
<1 year 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
>5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Multicurrency revolving facility
– Sterling 2.1 (34.0) (36.7) (0.7) (0.7) (35.3) –
– Euro 1.6 (21.0) (22.2) (0.3) (0.3) (21.6) –
– US Dollar 1.8 (12.3) (13.1) (0.2) (0.2) (12.7) –
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 5.9 (31.6) (33.2) (33.2) – – –
Bank overdrafts
– Sterling 2.4 (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) – – –
– Euro 1.9 (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) – – –
– Other 2.1 (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) – – –
Preference shares 5.8 (0.4) (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees 1.2 – – – – –
(100.4) (107.9) (36.7) (1.2) (69.6) (0.4)
Trade and other payables (26.4) (26.4) (26.4) – – –
Derivative financial liabilities:
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
– Outflow (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – – –
(126.9) (134.4) (63.2) (1.2) (69.6) (0.4)
Company 2014
Effective 
rate
%
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
<1 year
£m
1–2 years
£m
2–5 years
£m
>5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Multicurrency revolving facility
– Sterling 2.1 (27.0) (29.7) (0.6) (0.6) (28.5) –
– Euro 2.2 (26.1) (28.9) (0.6) (0.6) (27.7) –
– US Dollar 2.1 (10.2) (11.2) (0.2) (0.2) (10.8) –
5.9% €45m Senior Note due 2016 5.9 (36.0) (39.9) (2.1) (37.8) – –
Bank overdrafts
– Sterling 2.1 (1.7) (1.7) (1.7) – – –
– Euro 1.3 (5.7) (5.7) (5.7) – – –
– Other 1.7 (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) – – –
Preference shares 5.8 (0.4) (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Prepaid arrangement fees 1.5 – – – – –
(106.2) (118.1) (11.5) (39.2) (67.0) (0.4)
Trade and other payables (21.1) (21.1) (21.1) – – –
Derivative financial liabilities:
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
– Outflow – – – – – –
(127.3) (139.2) (32.6) (39.2) (67.0) (0.4)
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 11 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
Foreign exchange risk
(a) Translational
The Group has significant net assets based outside of the UK, predominantly in the Eurozone, the USA and China, with further amounts 
held in the Czech Republic and the Middle East. The Group has elected to use its direct currency borrowings under the senior note private 
placement and its €165m multi-currency revolving facility as hedges against movements in the Sterling value of its Euro and US Dollar 
investments and mitigate the risk associated with fluctuations in foreign currency rates. The Group’s borrowing under its RMB150m 
facilities acts as a natural balance sheet hedge against the Group’s investments in China. The Group recognised an amount of £nil in the 
income statement as a result of ineffectiveness arising from those hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Profit before tax, 
amortisation and non-recurring items for the year ended 30 November 2014 retranslated using 2015 average exchange rates would have 
been £1.5m lower.
(b) Transactional
The Company and Group have limited transactional currency exposures, arising on sales and purchases made in currencies other than the 
functional currency of the entity making the sale or purchase. Significant exposures which are deemed at least highly probable are 
matched where possible, and the remaining transactional risk may be mitigated using forward foreign exchange contracts, all of which 
mature within one year of the balance sheet date.
The following tables show the derivative assets/(liabilities) recognised in the accounts in respect of these hedging instruments:
Carrying and fair value amount 2015
Notional
contract
amount
£m
Designated
as cash flow 
hedges
£m
Designated
as net 
investment
hedges
£m
Not
designated
as hedges
£m
Derivative
assets
£m
Derivative
liabilities
£m
Forward exchange contracts 5.3 – – – – 0.1
Carrying and fair value amount 2014
Notional
contract
amount
£m
Designated
as cash flow 
hedges
£m
Designated
as net 
investment
hedges
£m
Not
designated
as hedges
£m
Derivative
assets
£m
Derivative
liabilities
£m
Forward exchange contracts 4.3 – – – – –
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement. During the year to 
30 November 2015, an amount of £nil (2014: £nil) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. The amount recognised in equity in the 
year in respect of hedges was a loss of £nil (2014: £nil).
Forward exchange contracts
The Group had the following forward foreign exchange contracts in place at the balance sheet date, all of which mature within one year 
of the balance sheet date:
2015 2014
Currency
million
Average
exchange
rate
Currency
million
Average
exchange
rate
Euro/Saudi Riyal 29.9 4.03 25.4 4.70
The Company had the following forward foreign exchange contracts in place at the balance sheet date:
2015 2014
Currency
million
Average
exchange
rate
Currency
million
Average
exchange
rate
Euro/Saudi Riyal 29.9 4.03 25.4 4.70
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1 15
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
Forward exchange contracts continued
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average
rate
2015
Average
rate
2014
Year end
rate
2015
Year end
rate
2014
Sterling/Euro 1.37 1.24 1.43 1.26
Sterling/US Dollar 1.53 1.66 1.51 1.57
Sterling/Czech Crown 37.53 34.03 38.54 34.72
Sterling/Hungarian Forint 425.15 380.88 443.05 384.83
Sterling/Chinese Yuan 9.60 10.19 9.63 9.62
Sensitivity analysis
A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the following currencies would have decreased equity and profit before amortisation and 
non-recurring items after tax by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, including interest rates,  
remain constant:
2015 2014
Profit
£m
Equity
£m
Profit
£m
Equity
£m
US Dollar (1.1) (1.9) (0.6) (1.5)
Euro (0.2) (5.2) (0.5) (7.3)
Czech Crown (0.3) (0.9) (0.4) (1.1)
Chinese Yuan (0.1) (2.5) (0.1) (2.1)
A 10% weakening of Sterling against the above currencies as at 30 November 2015 and 2014 would have had the equal but opposite 
effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the loss in relation to a financial asset due to non-payment by the customer or counterparty. The Group’s objective is to 
reduce its exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy  
in relation to the collection of financial assets. The Group’s principal financial assets are cash, derivative financial instruments and 
receivables which represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The credit risk in relation to cash and derivative financial instruments is mitigated by Group policies which restrict dealings to approved 
counterparties with high credit ratings and with whom the Group has an ongoing banking relationship. The Group has set maximum 
permitted exposures with each counterparty which are reviewed regularly.
Trade receivable exposures are with a wide range of counterparties, and the credit strength of these counterparties is monitored.  
Where appropriate, credit risks are minimised through the use of forward funding, letters of credit, variations in payment terms  
and insurance. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset as recorded in the  
balance sheet. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk at the balance sheet date nor are there any significant exposures  
to any one customer. See Note 18 for further details.
The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only where there is a clear commercial advantage in doing so.
The Company believes that all amounts receivable from subsidiary companies are recoverable in full.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum credit risk at the reporting date was:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss – – – –
Trade and other receivables 67.8 72.8 170.9 172.8
Cash and cash equivalents 33.9 25.8 5.3 3.6
101.7 98.6 176.2 176.4
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 1 16
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
20. Financial assets, liabilities, derivatives and financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk
The Group’s strategy seeks a balance between fixed and floating rate borrowings, to achieve a reasonable effective interest rate whilst 
protecting the Group against material adverse changes in interest rates over the medium term.
All of the Group’s interest-bearing assets and liabilities at 30 November 2015 and 2014 were on a floating rate basis, apart from 
preference debt with an average coupon rate of 5.75% and the €45m Senior Note due 2016 which bears interest at 5.9% until its 
maturity in September 2016.
Floating rate financial assets and liabilities comprise borrowings under the Group’s syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facility, 
which bear interest at LIBOR (or, in the case of borrowings in Euro, EURIBOR), or the lender’s base rate for the currency concerned, plus a 
margin of between 1.0% and 2.0%, and cash deposits and bank overdrafts which bear interest at market rates; and borrowings under 
the Group’s RMB150m facility, which bear interest at rates set by reference to local base rate.
Profile
At the balance sheet date, the interest rate profile of the Group’s and Company’s interest-bearing net debt and financial instruments was:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fixed rate
Net debt (31.9) (36.2) (31.9) (36.2)
Financial instruments – – – –
Total fixed rate (31.9) (36.2) (31.9) (36.2)
Floating rate
Net debt (70.2) (51.8) (63.2) (66.4)
Financial instruments (0.1) – (0.1) –
Total floating rate (70.3) (51.8) (63.3) (66.4)
Total interest-bearing net debt and financial instruments (102.2) (88.0) (95.2) (102.6)
The Group and Company’s interest-bearing net debt and financial instruments do not include amounts owed or owing to joint ventures or 
joint venture partners.
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased or decreased equity by £0.5m (2014: £0.6m). The impact on the profit 
or loss for the period would have been to increase or decrease profit by £0.7m (2014: £0.8m). This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
21. Deferred taxation
Group
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities:
2015 2014
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
£m
Intangible assets – (4.4) (4.4) – (6.1) (6.1)
Retirement benefit liabilities 2.2 – 2.2 2.3 – 2.3
Accelerated tax depreciation – (12.2) (12.2) – (13.2) (13.2)
Tax losses 1.0 – 1.0 – – –
Other 1.2 (0.6) 0.6 2.1 (1.5) 0.6
Tax assets/(liabilities) 4.4 (17.2) (12.8) 4.4 (20.8) (16.4)
 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Tax losses 27.0 29.0
Retirement benefit liabilities – –
Employee share schemes 1.4 1.4
Accelerated tax depreciation 0.9 0.9
29.3 31.3
Tax losses include an amount of £6.9m (2014: £7.6m) in respect of capital losses. The tax losses have no expiry date.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
11 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
21. Deferred taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 30 November 2015:
Balance
1 Dec 2014
£m
Recognised
in other 
comprehensive
income
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
Balance
30 Nov 2015
£m
Intangible assets (6.1) – 1.0 0.7 (4.4)
Retirement benefit liabilities 2.3 – - (0.1) 2.2
Accelerated tax depreciation (13.2) – 0.5 0.5 (12.2)
Tax losses – – 1.0 – 1.0
Other 0.6 – (0.3) 0.3 0.6
(16.4) – 2.2 1.4 (12.8)
Movement in deferred tax during the year ended 30 November 2014:
Balance
1 Dec 2013
 £m
Recognised
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
Balance
30 Nov 2014
£m
Intangible assets (7.7) – 1.3 0.3 (6.1)
Retirement benefit liabilities 1.5 0.8 – – 2.3
Accelerated tax depreciation (13.7) – 0.4 0.1 (13.2)
Other (0.2) – 0.6 0.2 0.6
(20.1) 0.8 2.3 0.6 (16.4)
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of £4.4m (2014: £4.4m) as the Directors believe it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which the assets can be utilised as they reverse over the coming years.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of investments in subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of 
the reversal of the timing difference and it is probable that the timing difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In the majority 
of cases, it is likely that sufficient underlying tax credits will be available to offset the tax liability arising and it is not considered 
practicable to disclose the amount of the timing difference in respect of the deferred tax liabilities which have not been recognised.
Company
The Company has not recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities as the Directors believe it is not probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which the assets can be utilised as they reverse over the coming years.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Tax losses 15.3 16.3
Retirement benefit liabilities – –
Employee share schemes 1.4 1.4
16.7 17.7
Tax losses include an amount of £4.6m (2014: £5.2m) in respect of capital losses. The tax losses have no expiry date.
There are no timing differences arising in respect of the deferred tax liabilities which have not been recognised.
22. Provisions
Restructuring
£m
Current
At 30 November 2013 –
Created in the year 0.5
Utilised in the year –
Exchange difference –
At 30 November 2014 0.5
Created in the year –
Utilised in the year (0.4)
Exchange difference –
At 30 November 2015 0.1
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 1 18
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
23. Other payables
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Other payables 1.6 2.0
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – –
24. Prior year purchase of non-controlling interest 
On 11 May 2014, the Group purchased the non-controlling interest in Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC for a cash 
consideration of $2m (£1.2m). As this was a transaction with minority equity owners of the business without a change of control, it was 
recognised as an equity transaction in the Group’s reserves and not as a business combination or investment. Directly attributable costs of 
£0.2m were recorded in equity in the year ended 30  November 2014. 
As a result of the purchase of this non-controlling interest, the financial statements show no non-controlling interest in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet at 30 November 2014 or 2015 in relation to Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC and record a non-controlling 
share of profits only up to 11 May 2014, being £0.0m.
25. Share capital
Group and Company 2015 Group and Company 2014
Ordinary
Shares
£m
Deferred
Shares
£m
Ordinary
Shares
£m
Deferred
Shares
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1 December
327,813,741 (2014: 326,293,606) Ordinary Shares at 5 pence each 16.4 – 16.3 –
154,571,152 Deferred Shares at 20 pence each – 30.9 – 30.9
1,169,736 Ordinary Shares (2014: 1,520,135) issued under share option plans and long-term 
incentive plan 0.1 – 0.1 –
At 30 November
328,983,477 (2014: 327,813,741) Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each 16.5 – 16.4 –
154,571,152 Deferred Shares of 20 pence each – 30.9 – 30.9
Capital reorganisation
On 11 March 2009, the Company’s Ordinary Share capital was reorganised by means of a capital reorganisation involving: (i) the 
subdivision and reclassification of each issued Ordinary Share into one new Ordinary Share of 5 pence and one Deferred Share of  
20 pence; and (ii) the subdivision of each authorised but unissued Ordinary Share into five new Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each.  
On completion of the capital reorganisation, each Ordinary Shareholder held one new Ordinary Share and one Deferred Share for  
each Ordinary Share previously held.
A Deferred Share: (i) does not entitle its holder to receive any dividend or other distribution; (ii) does not entitle its holder to receive notice 
of, nor to attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting of the Company; (iii) entitles its holder on a return of capital on a winding-up (but 
not otherwise) only to the repayment of the amount paid up on that share after payment of (a) the amounts entitled to be paid up to 
holders of the Preference Shares and (b) the capital paid up on each Ordinary Share of 5 pence in the share capital of the Company and 
the further payment of £10m on each such Ordinary Share; and, (iv) does not entitle its holder to any further participation in the capital, 
profits or assets of the Company.
Shares issued during the year
During the year ended 30 November 2015, 846,482 shares (2014: 357,871 shares) were issued to employees who exercised share options. 
323,254 shares (2014: 1,162,264) were issued pursuant to awards made under the LTIP granted in 2011. 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1 19
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
25. Share capital continued
Preference Shares
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
100,000 (2014: 100,000) 6% first cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each 0.1 0.1
100,000 (2014: 100,000) 6% second cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each 0.1 0.1
200,000 (2014: 200,000) 5.5% third cumulative preference stock of £1.00 each 0.2 0.2
0.4 0.4
Preference Shares are included within borrowings. Preference Shares have priority over Ordinary Shares on a winding-up of the Company. 
Provided that preference dividends remain paid in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Preference Shares do not carry 
voting rights.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares
An element of senior executive remuneration is provided in the form of share options and long-term incentive plan awards. More details 
of these options and awards can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75. Employees are also invited to 
participate in the Low & Bonar Sharesave schemes.
Share options
Under the provisions of the employee share option schemes there were options for a total of 3.9 million Ordinary Shares outstanding at 
30 November 2015 (2014: 3.9 million Ordinary Shares). The number of options outstanding which were granted in the last financial year 
was 1.6 million (2014: 1.2 million).
Details of the options included in the IFRS 2 charge are as follows:
Year of grant
Exercise
price
in pence Exercise period
Ordinary Shares of 5p each
Average
fair value
in pence 1 Dec 2014 Granted Exercised Forfeited 30 Nov 2015
Share options
2006 27.23 108.18 2009 to 2016 442,126 – – – 442,126
2009 14.07 32.18 2012 to 2015 141,186 – (141,186) – –
2010 13.50 26.00 2013 to 2015 160,282 – (158,987) (1,295) –
2010 13.50 26.00 2013 to 2015 409,492 – (409,492) – –
2011 22.17 42.80 2014 to 2016 38,922 – – – 38,922
2011 22.16 42.80 2014 to 2016 36,688 – – – 36,688
2012 19.61 51.20 2015 to 2017 61,517 – (44,644) (16,873) –
2012 19.31 51.20 2015 to 2017 135,147 – (92,173) (22,030) 20,944
2013 18.55 58.80 2016 to 2018 282,470 – – (147,035) 135,435
2013 20.29 58.80 2016 to 2018 667,780 – – (47,636) 620,144
2014 22.37 68.80 2017 to 2019 401,491 – – (283,070) 118,421
2014 21.89 68.80 2017 to 2019 768,433 – – (196,615) 571,818
2015 14.20 48.80 2018 to 2020 – 798,841 – (3,688) 795,153
2015 13.47 48.80 2018 to 2020 – 801,291 – – 801,291
Phantom share options
2006 2.93 108.18 2009 to 2016 336,836 – – – 336,836
Total 3,882,370 1,600,132 (846,482) (718,242) 3,917,778
The weighted average exercise price of share options outstanding at 30 November 2015 was 66.80p (2014: 66.15p). The weighted 
average exercise prices of share options granted, exercised and forfeited in the year to 30 November 2015 were 48.80p, 31.37p and 
64.99p, respectively (2014: 68.80p, 39.17p and 62.57p, respectively). 0.8 million share options were exercisable at 30 November 2015 
(2014: 0.8 million).
The fair values of share options granted in the year to 30 November 2015 ranged from 13.47p to 14.92p (2014: 21.27p to 26.36p) and 
were derived using the Black-Scholes model. The assumed future volatility ranged from 36% to 38% (2014: 36% to 42%), the dividend 
yield was 4.6% (2014: 3.7%), the expected term ranged from 3.4 years to 5.4 years (2014: 3.3 years to 5.3 years) and the risk-free rate 
ranged from 0.9% to 1.3% (2014: 1.3% to 1.8%).
The fair values of the phantom share options were recalculated based on data at 30 November 2015 using the Stochastic model. The 
assumed future volatility ranged from 41% to 42% (2014: 41% to 42%) the dividend yield was 3.7% (2014: 3.7%), the expected term 
ranged from 1.6 years to 3.4 years (2014: 1.6 years to 3.4 years) and the risk-free rate ranged from 0.3% to 0.4% (2014: 0.3% to 0.4%).
The average share price in the year ended 30 November 2015 was 63.19p (2014: 76.45p).
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 12 0
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
25. Share capital continued
Long-term incentive plan awards
Under the provisions of the long-term incentive plans there were awards for a total of 7.5 million Ordinary Shares outstanding at 30 
November 2015 (2014: 7.5 million Ordinary Shares). The number of awards outstanding which were granted in the last financial year  
was 3.6 million (2014: 2.1 million).
 
Details of the awards included in the IFRS 2 charge are shown below:
Year of grant
Award
price
in pence Vesting period
Ordinary Shares of 5p each
Average
fair value
in pence 1 Dec 2014 Awarded Exercised Forfeited 30 Nov 2015
2011 41.11 53.50 2011 to 2014 323,253 – (323,253) – –
2012 45.40 61.00 2012 to 2015 2,748,630 – – (2,748,630) –
2012 45.02 62.00 2012 to 2015 229,839 – – (229,839) –
2013 53.07 70.50 2013 to 2016 2,013,030 – – (164,063) 1,848,967
2014 75.48 89.75 2014 to 2017 1,598,924 – – (109,575) 1,489,349
2014 66.05 82.00 2014 to 2017 542,168 – – – 542,168
2015 48.27 57.25 2015 to 2018 – 3,819,349 – (568,260) 3,251,089
2015 50.62 59.50 2015 to 2018 – 76,965 – – 76,965
2015 62.24 71.00 2015 to 2018 – 270,383 – – 270,383
Total 56.69 69.31 7,455,844 4,166,697 (323,253) (3,820,367) 7,478,921
None of the instruments awarded under the Group’s long-term incentive plans were exercisable at 30 November 2015 (2014: 323,253). 
The fair values of awards made in the year to 30 November 2015 ranged from 39.29p to 71.00p (2014: 50.10p to 89.75p) and were 
derived using the Black-Scholes or Stochastic models. The assumed future volatility ranged from 34.5% to 34.9% (2014: 29.6% to 36.9%) 
the dividend yield was 0% (2014: 0%), the expected term was 3 years (2014: 3 years) and the risk-free rate ranged from 0.66% to 0.97%  
(2014: 0.97% to 1.04%).
The total amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of share-based payments was £0.6m (2014: £0.6m). Liabilities 
in respect of cash-settled share-based payments were not material at either 30 November 2015 or 30 November 2014.
26. Share premium account
Group and Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 December 74.0 73.9
Premium on Ordinary Shares issued during the year 0.2 0.1
At 30 November 74.2 74.0
27. Translation reserve
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 December (43.0) (36.9)
Adjustments on translation of net assets and results of overseas subsidiaries, net of hedging (18.0) (6.1)
At 30 November (61.0) (43.0)
28. Non-controlling interest
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 December 6.4 6.4
Share of profit after taxation 0.5 0.3
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – (0.6)
Dividends (1.0) –
Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.3
At 30 November 6.1 6.4
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
12 1
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
29. Reconciliation of net cash flow movement to movement in net debt
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
For the year ended 30 November
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.7 8.6
Net cash flow from movements in debt financing (28.8) (12.6)
Amortisation of bank arrangement fees (0.2) (0.6)
Finance lease capital repayments – –
Foreign exchange differences 6.2 3.4
Movement in net debt in the year (14.1) (1.2)
Net debt at 1 December (88.0) (86.8)
Net debt at 30 November (102.1) (88.0)
Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
For the year ended 30 November
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.7 3.3
Net cash flow from movements in debt financing 5.8 (12.6)
Amortisation of bank arrangement fees (0.4) (0.6)
Foreign exchange differences 0.4 0.4
Movement in net debt in the year 7.5 (9.5)
Net debt at 1 December (102.6) (93.1)
Net debt at 30 November (95.1) (102.6)
30. Discontinued operations
The profit from discontinued operations arose in the prior year from the release of a warranty accrual held in relation to the Floors 
business which was sold in 2008. The time period for which the warranty accrual was valid expired during the year ended 30 November 
2014 and the accrual was released.
Group
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations  – 0.9
Attributable tax expense –  – 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 0.9
31. Operating lease commitments
At 30 November, the Group had total non-cancellable commitments under operating leases as follows:
Group Company
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Plant and equipment
 Lease payments within one year 1.3 1.3 – – 
 Lease payments between one and two years 1.0 0.9 – – 
 Lease payments between two and five years 1.2 0.8 – – 
 Lease payments beyond five years 1.2 – – – 
4.7 3.0 – – 
Property
 Lease payments within one year 4.3 5.4 0.1 0.1
 Lease payments between one and two years 4.0 4.2 – – 
 Lease payments between two and five years 7.9 10.3 – – 
 Lease payments beyond five years 14.8 15.0 – – 
31.0 34.9 0.1 0.1
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 12 2
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
32. Contingent liabilities
At the time of disposing of the Group’s North American packaging operations in March 2000, the Company entered into an 
Environmental Agreement with the purchasers of the business. The Environmental Agreement contains provisions regarding the 
remediation of known environmental contamination in the vicinity of one of the facilities which was sold in Burlington, Ontario.  
The Environmental Agreement expired in September 2006 and the Group has an ongoing liability only in respect of outstanding claims 
notified prior to this date. At 30 November 2015, an accrual of £nil (2014: £nil) remains in the Group’s balance sheet for the ongoing 
remediation costs as the Directors now believe that all costs have been incurred.
In addition, the Company from time to time guarantees certain obligations of its subsidiaries arising in the normal course of trade. At 
30 November 2015, £nil of guarantees were outstanding (2014: £1.0m). At 30 November 2015, the Company had guaranteed £6.8m 
(2014: £nil) of debt obligations of its joint venture Bonar Natpet LLC.
33. Related party transactions
At 30 November 2015, the Group held a receivable of £nil (2014: £4.7m) due from Bonar Natpet LLC, a joint venture, and both the Group 
and Company held a liability of £5.3m (2014: £3.1m) to National Petrochemical Industrial Company (Natpet), the Group’s joint venture 
partner in Bonar Natpet LLC.
At 30 November 2015, the Group was owed £0.2m (2014: £0.3m) by the Low & Bonar Group Retirement Benefit Scheme.
The Company provides debt finance to various operating subsidiaries. A total of £170.5m was outstanding at 30 November 2015 (2014: 
£172.5m). The Company also borrows surplus funds from its subsidiaries. At 30 November 2015, the total amount payable to subsidiaries 
was £18.2m (2014: £16.0m). The Company received income in respect of management services provided to its subsidiaries totalling £4.2m 
(2014: £3.9m). The Company received interest income from related parties totalling £5.2m (2014: £5.9m) and accrued interest payable to 
related parties of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). The Company received dividend income from its subsidiaries of £16.0m (2014: £10.0m).
All related party transactions were conducted on an arm’s-length basis.
The remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of the Group was:
2015 2014
Number £m Number £m
Short-term benefits 3.3 2.0
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.3
Share-based payments – 0.5
Termination benefits 0.5 0.2
14 4.2 8 3.0
Key personnel comprise two Executive Directors (2014: three) and the eight other members of the Executive Leadership Team (2014:  
four business unit managing directors and one Director of Marketing and Strategy) and four (2014: nil) former members of the Executive 
Leadership team.
The aggregate amount of Directors’ remuneration was £1.2m (2014: £1.1m) and the aggregate gain made by the Directors on the exercise 
of share options was £nil (2014: £0.4m). The cash paid into defined contribution schemes was £0.2m (2014: £0.2m) and two Directors 
were members of defined contribution schemes (2014: three). Full details of Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and interests in the 
shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
12 3
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
34. Group companies
Subsidiary undertakings Principal product areas Country %
Building & Industrial / Civil Engineering / Interior & Transportation 
Bonar NV Woven and non-woven fabrics Belgium 100.0
Yihua Bonar Yarns & Fabrics Co. Ltd Woven fabrics People’s Republic of China 60.0
Bonar Limited Construction fibres England and Wales 100.0
Bonar Geosynthetics Kft Non-woven fabrics Hungary 100.0
Bonar BV Polymeric mats and composites The Netherlands 100.0
Bonar Produktions GmbH Polymeric mats and composites Germany 100.0
Bonar GmbH and Co. KG Polymeric mats and composites, 
and holding company
Germany 100.0
Bonar SARL Polymeric mats and composites France 100.0
Bonar Inc Polymeric mats and composites USA 100.0
Bonar Xeroflor GmbH Green roofs Germany 100.0
XF Technologies BV Intellectual property The Netherlands 100.0
Bonar Geosynthetics a.s Non-woven fabrics Slovakia 100.0
Low & Bonar (Shanghai) Trading Company Limited Woven fabrics People’s Republic of China 100.0
Bonar High Performance Materials (Changzhou) Co. Ltd Woven fabrics People’s Republic of China 100.0
Coated Technical Textiles
Mehler Texnologies Logistics GmbH Technical coated fabrics Germany 100.0
Mehler Texnologies GmbH Technical coated fabrics Germany 100.0
Mehler Texnologies S.R.L. Technical coated fabrics Romania 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Ltd Technical coated fabrics England and Wales 100.0
Mehler Texnologies S.r.l. Technical coated fabrics Italy 100.0
Mehler Texnologies SARL Technical coated fabrics France 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Inc Technical coated fabrics USA 100.0
Mehler Texnologies s.r.o. Technical coated fabrics Czech Republic 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Sp. Z o.o. Technical coated fabrics Poland 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Teknik Tekstil Limited Sirketi Technical coated fabrics Turkey 100.0
Mehler Texnologies s.i.a. Technical coated fabrics Latvia 100.0
Mehler Texnologies Middle East Trading LLC Technical coated fabrics UAE 100.0
Low & Bonar Technical Textiles OOO Technical coated fabrics Russia 100.0
Mehler Texnologies India Private Limited Technical coated fabrics India 100.0
Low & Bonar Brasil Têxtil E Participações Ltda Technical coated fabrics Brazil 100.0
Sports & Leisure
Bonar Yarns & Fabrics Limited Specialist yarns Scotland 100.0*
Bonar Emirates Technical Yarns Industries LLC Specialist yarns United Arab Emirates 100.0
Bonar Xirion NV Specialist yarns Belgium 100.0
Bonar Technical Yarns Inc Specialist yarns USA 100.0
Bonar Yarns BV Specialist yarns The Netherlands 100.0
Holding companies
Bonar International Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland 100.0*
Bonar International Sarl Holding company Luxembourg 100.0
LCM Construction Products Ltd Holding company England and Wales 100.0*
Low & Bonar Technical Textiles Holding BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Colbond Holding BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Low & Bonar Verwaltungs GmbH Holding company Germany 100.0
Colbond (Nederland) BV Holding company The Netherlands 100.0
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 12 4
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the Accounts continued
Subsidiary undertakings Principal product areas Country %
Dormant companies
A.G. Scott Textiles Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0
Bamber Carpets Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Nuway Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Offshore Canada Inc Dormant Canada 100.0
Bonar Pack Centre Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Plastics Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Rotaform Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Silver Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Bonar Systems Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Bonar Ventures Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0
Bryanston 955 Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0
Cole Group PLC Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Cupa Engineering Co Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Gaskell Carpet Tiles Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Goldtide Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Leisurewear Africa Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0*
Lobex Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0*
Lobo Nominees Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0
Low & Bonar Pension Scheme (1986) Trustee Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0*
Low & Bonar Pension Trustees Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0*
Low & Bonar UK Limited Dormant Scotland 100.0*
Modulus Flooring Systems Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Nuway Manufacturing Co. Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Placell Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Platinum Prestige Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
R.H.Cole Investments Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Rotaform Plastics Limited Dormant England and Wales 100.0
Waddington Cartons Ltd Dormant England and Wales 100.0*
Joint venture
Bonar Natpet LLC Geotextiles Saudi Arabia 50.0
Associated undertakings
CPW GmbH Intellectual property Germany 33.3
Enka Water Control Corporation Dormant USA 33.3
1 Unless otherwise stated, shares held are ordinary, common or unclassified. 
2 The percentage of the nominal value of issued shares held is shown following the name of each company. 
3 An asterisk* indicates that the percentage of share capital shown is held directly by the Company. 
4 The companies listed were incorporated in the country shown against each of them and, with the exception of Bonar International Sarl which operates primarily in England, 
that country is also the principal country of operation.
34. Group companies continued
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
12 5
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
Five Year History
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 
restated
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue
Continuing operations 395.8 410.6 403.1 380.5 388.7
Discontinued operations – – – – –
Total (including discontinued operations) 395.8 410.6 403.1 380.5 388.7
Operating profit before amortisation and non-recurring items
Continuing operations 32.8 31.7 31.4 30.5 30.6
Discontinued operations – – – – –
Total (including discontinued operations) 32.8 31.7 31.4 30.5 30.6
Operating profit
Continuing operations 18.6 23.2 23.4 12.1 30.6
Discontinued operations – – – – –
Total (including discontinued operations) 18.6 23.2 23.4 12.1 30.6
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items
Continuing operations 26.6 25.2 25.3 24.5 23.4
Discontinued operations – – – – –
Total (including discontinued operations) 26.6 25.2 25.3 24.5 23.4
Profit before tax
Continuing operations 12.4 16.7 16.7 6.1 23.4
Discontinued operations – – – – 2.2
Total (including discontinued operations) 12.4 16.7 16.7 6.1 25.6
Net debt (102.1) (88.0) (86.8) (82.6) (85.3)
Per Ordinary Share
Basic earnings per share (including discontinued operations) (pence) 1.73 3.76 3.74 0.47 7.29
Dividends declared per share (pence) 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.4 2.1
2013 results were restated for the implementation of IAS19 Employee Benefits (Revised). Earlier years’ results have not been restated
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Five Year History 12 6
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Company Secretary
Stuart Haydon
Registered Office
Whitehall House
33 Yeaman Shore
Dundee
DD1 4BJ
Head Office
10th Floor
1 Eversholt Street
London
NW1 2DN
Telephone: 020 7535 3180
Website: www.lowandbonar.com
Registered number: SC008349
Advisers
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Leven House
10 Lochside Place
Edinburgh Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9DF
Telephone: 0370 702 0003
Auditor
KPMG LLP
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
Squire Patton Boggs LLP
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Comerica Bank
HSBC 
ING Bank NV
KBC Bank NV
Santander
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
Corporate finance advisers
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited
Brokers
Peel Hunt LLP
 
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting 31 March 2016
Announcements for results for the year ending 30 November 2016
Half year July 2016
Full year February 2017
Final dividend payment for the year ended 30 November 2015
Ordinary Shares 14 April 2016
First, second and third cumulative  1 March 2016 and 
preference stock 1 September 2016
Advisers and Financial Calendar
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Advisers and Financial 
Calendar Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
12 7
Low & Bonar PLC 
Annual Report 2015
notes
Page Title at start: Content Section at start: 12 8
Low & Bonar PLC
Annual Report 2015
Notes
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:  10th Floor, 1 Eversholt Street
London NW1 2DN
Telephone: 020 7535 3180
www.lowandbonar.com
Low & Bonar PLC Annual Report 2015
