 Management Consulting Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015
Management Consulting Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Management Consulting Group PLC provides 
expertise, guidance and professional services 
to many of the world’s leading companies.
Strategic report
01 Highlights
02 At a glance
04 Our global reach
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive’s review
12 Segmental review: Kurt Salmon
16 Segmental review: Alexander Proudfoot
20 Corporate social responsibility: Our people
22 Corporate social responsibility: Our impact
24 Financial review 
30 Principal risks and uncertainties
32 Viability statement
Governance
33 Chairman’s introduction
34 Board of Directors
36 Corporate governance report
40 Other disclosures
41 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
45 The Nominations Committee
46 Report of the Remuneration Committee
62 Directors’ responsibility statement
63 Independent auditor’s report
Financials
67 Group income statement
68 Group statement of comprehensive income
69 Group statement of changes in equity
70 Group balance sheet
71 Group cash flow statement
72 Company balance sheet
73 Company statement of changes in equity
74 Company cash flow statement
75 Notes to the financial statements
119 Contacts for investors and clients
120 Company advisers
MCG is made up of two businesses: Alexander Proudfoot (“AP”) and Kurt Salmon (“KS”). 
Throughout the report the use of this symbol signifies whether the whole of MCG 
or one of the two businesses is being discussed.
KS
AP
Kurt 
Salmon
Alexander 
Proudfoot 15
14 145.9
138.9
Revenue from continuing operations (£m)
£138.9m
15
14 4.3
(0.1)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations (£m)
£(0.1)m
15
14 7.7
0.8
Underlying operating profit from  
continuing operations (£m)
£0.8m
15
14 33.6
52.8
Net debt (£m)
£52.8m
Reported revenues from continuing 
operations of £138.9m (2014*: £145.9m), 
approximately 4.8% lower as a result of 
weakness in Alexander Proudfoot
Underlying** operating profit from 
continuing operations of £0.8m 
(2014: £7.7m), with profit of £6.1m 
for the retained Kurt Salmon 
business offset by loss of 
£5.3m for Alexander Proudfoot
Sale of Kurt Salmon business in France 
and related geographies was completed 
on 7 January 2016, the Group receiving 
gross proceeds at completion of 
approximately £65.9m
Loss from discontinued operations 
of £57.8m (2014: £1.1m profit)
Retained loss for the year of £65.5m 
(2014: £1.0m)
Net debt at 31 December of £52.8m 
(31 December 2014: £33.6m) repaid in full 
in January 2016 from disposal proceeds
“MCG has completed the sale of the French and related operations of Kurt Salmon 
and we have repaid the Group’s bank debt. The Group is in a strong financial 
position, debt free, and well placed to promote profitable growth in its continuing 
operations. Alexander Proudfoot had a very disappointing 2015 and continues 
to be significantly affected by weaker demand from natural resources clients. 
Kurt Salmon is now primarily focused on the global retail and consumer goods 
practice, together with a US healthcare practice. The Board of MCG will remain alert 
to all opportunities to generate value from the Group’s portfolio of businesses.”
Nick Stagg Chief Executive
*   2014 comparatives have been restated to reflect continuing operations only.
**  Throughout this statement the term “underlying” is defined as “before non-recurring items and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles”.
A year of change
01
Governance Financials Strategic report
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Highlights
Governance Financials Strategic report At a glance
Kurt Salmon
Innovating for growth
Alexander Proudfoot
Building a firm platform
MCG operates through two independently managed practices: 
Alexander Proudfoot and Kurt Salmon. We seek to enable both 
practices to progress to their fullest potential – distinctly, 
but in tandem – creating maximum shareholder value.
02
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Kurt Salmon has benefited from its increasing 
expertise in digital transformation, helping clients 
across a range of industries to adapt their strategy 
and operations to the digital world.
Alexander Proudfoot’s powerful core offering 
is being expanded and developed in new 
directions to increase its flexibility and focus 
in response to client demand.
 Retail / 82%
 Healthcare / 18%
 
 Natural resources / 45%
 Industrials and utilities / 40%
 Financial / 7%
 Healthcare / 2%
 Retail / 6%
Revenue by sector (continuing operations) Revenue by sector
Through our deep expertise and innovative solutions, 
Kurt Salmon can deliver the building blocks of success 
in the 21st century. We understand that tomorrow’s 
organisation needs a different approach to formulating 
strategy. Kurt Salmon helps its clients to deliver: 
 – operations that are lean and efficient yet agile and 
capable of adjusting quickly to changing circumstances;
 – information technology that facilitates the future and 
is not constrained by the present; and
 – people who are engaged, inspired and innovative.
We work in the field, deploying teams quickly to our clients’ 
operational sites, wherever in the world they may be. 
We have a flexible approach tailoring our core methodology 
to the requirements of each project.
We work alongside client staff, engaging with them, to install 
performance programmes that deliver rapid and sustainable 
operational and financial improvements.
Our expertise Our expertise
Read more about 
Alexander Proudfoot p16
Read more about 
Kurt Salmon p12
03
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Our global reach
04
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report
Diversified by geography
(Revenue from 
continuing operations)
 Europe 19%
 North America 63%
 Africa 4%
 South and Central America 6%
 Asia 8%
The Group is present in the 
important markets across the globe
93% of MCG’s revenues were derived 
from outside the UK
North America
Kurt Salmon’s North American 
practices serve leading 
retail and consumer goods 
companies as well as 
major hospitals and 
healthcare organisations.
South and 
Central America
Latin America is an important 
market for Alexander 
Proudfoot, with about 
one-third of revenues here 
being derived from natural 
resources clients.
5
continents
United States
Digital commerce
Kurt Salmon designed, 
developed, and implemented 
a new mobile application for a 
leading pre-portioned meal 
delivery provider. The app was 
one of Apple’s top 25 apps of 
2015, and is featured on all 
iPhones in Apple Retail Stores 
in North America.
Chile
Mining
Alexander Proudfoot helped 
a global leader in the natural 
resources sector to boost 
productivity and cut costs at its 
copper mining operations in 
order to supplement the 
achievement of its five-year plan. 05
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report
Africa
Alexander Proudfoot serves 
clients in South Africa and 
across sub-Saharan Africa in 
the natural resources, 
financial services and 
manufacturing sectors. 
Europe
Kurt Salmon has unparalleled 
industry expertise, serving 
Europe’s most renowned 
retailers, specialty and global 
brands, grocers, fashion, 
apparel and consumer 
goods companies.
Alexander Proudfoot serves 
clients across the continent and 
has a global delivery capability 
for European clients with 
operations in other geographies.
Asia
Kurt Salmon serves the senior 
executives of and private 
equity investors in retail and 
consumer goods throughout 
Asia from its base offices in 
Tokyo and Shanghai.
Alexander Proudfoot operates 
from a base in Hong Kong 
serving clients throughout Asia.
Germany
eCommerce
Kurt Salmon supported one of 
Europe’s leading eCommerce 
companies with merchandise 
planning and management 
process definition, 
organisation design and 
system selection.
Japan
Omnichannel 
operationalisation
One of the largest retailers in 
Asia sought to transform its 
fulfilment network to improve 
speed of product delivery for 
the growing direct-to-consumer 
business. Kurt Salmon 
analysed consumer behaviours 
and inventory management 
strategy to design an optimised 
supply chain network that 
included ship-from-store, 
dark-store and dark-floor 
capabilities and a rationalised 
network of distribution centres.
South Africa
Insurance
Alexander Proudfoot improved 
the sales effectiveness of this 
global insurance company’s 
field- and branch-based teams. 
The project delivered higher 
productivity and an increase 
in policy conversion rates.
India
Manufacturing
This global manufacturer of 
electrical components needed 
to restore profitability. The 
Alexander Proudfoot project 
eliminated unnecessary costs 
and established best-in-class 
operations to put the company 
on a firmer footing. Chairman’s statement
Alan Barber
2015 was an important year for MCG which delivered significant changes 
to the structure and financial position of the Group. In November we 
announced the sale of a substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, 
principally those in France. The Kurt Salmon business which the Group has 
retained is focused on serving global clients in the retail and consumer 
goods sectors where it is a recognised market leader. With this enhanced 
focus and without the burden of indebtedness at the Group level we are 
now well placed to drive an improving performance.
2015 was an important year for MCG which 
delivered significant changes both to the 
structure and financial position of the Group. 
In November we announced the sale of a 
substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, 
principally those in France, together with 
certain related operations in Europe and the 
United States. The net proceeds from this 
disposal, which completed in early January 
2016, were equivalent to more than 80% of 
the Group’s market capitalisation and allowed 
the Group to repay all of its bank borrowings. 
Our reported results for 2015 reflect much 
of the one-off impact of this transaction.
The Kurt Salmon business retained by the 
Group, in Europe, North America and Asia, 
is focused on serving global clients in the 
retail and consumer goods sectors, where 
it is a recognised market leader, and its 
successful US healthcare consulting practice. 
With this enhanced focus in the Kurt Salmon 
business and without the burden of indebtedness 
at the Group level we are now well placed 
to drive an improving performance in 
Kurt Salmon, and to continue to explore a 
range of opportunities both to create shareholder 
value and to provide a rewarding future for 
the hugely talented group of partners and 
staff in the Kurt Salmon business.
We remain committed to aligning reward for 
our employees with shareholder value creation. 
As a consequence of the disposal of the 
French and other operations, the Board 
has implemented a significant retention 
plan focused on the continuing Kurt Salmon 
business in order to stabilise and motivate 
our people. This is based principally on 
a one-off share award programme, over 
approximately 42 million shares with a 
three-year vesting period. 
  Sale of the French and related 
operations of Kurt Salmon 
completed in January 2016
 Net proceeds from the disposal 
equivalent to more than 80% of 
the Group’s market capitalisation
 The Group has used the net proceeds 
to repay all bank borrowings
 Reported results for 2015 reflect 
much of the one-off impact of 
this transaction
Highlights
06
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Alexander Proudfoot had a very difficult year 
in 2015. The North American operations delivered 
an improved performance in the first half, 
but weaker revenues in that business and 
in other geographies in the second half led 
to Alexander Proudfoot reporting a loss for 
the year as a whole. Lower levels of activity 
in the key natural resources sector contributed 
to the poor performance. A number of important 
changes to the business were made during 2015 
however there is more work to do to rebuild 
revenues and profitability. Alexander Proudfoot 
has had a better start to 2016 although we 
are at a very early stage in relation to the 
outcome for the year as a whole.
“Following the disposal of parts of the Kurt Salmon business the Group 
is smaller, but more focused, and debt free. The Board of MCG will 
continue to promote profitable growth in our operations and will 
remain alert to all opportunities to generate value from the Group’s 
portfolio of businesses.”
Alan Barber Chairman
Chiheb Mahjoub and Andrew Simon stepped 
down from the Board of MCG after we reached 
agreement on the sale of part of the Kurt Salmon 
business and I would like to thank them for 
their valuable contributions to the sale process, 
and to the Group over their many years of 
service. Stephen Ferriss will step down at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting following 
ten years of sterling service and I am delighted 
that Nigel Halkes, a former Managing Partner 
at Ernst & Young, has joined the Board as a 
non-executive director and has become Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. I am pleased 
that the Board has asked me to remain as 
Chairman and we have agreed, subject to my 
reappointment at the AGM that I will continue 
in my role until my retirement in 2017.
As a result of the disposal of parts of the 
Kurt Salmon business the Group is smaller, 
but more focused, and debt free. The Board 
of MCG will continue to promote profitable 
growth in our operations and will remain alert 
to all opportunities to generate value from the 
Group’s portfolio of businesses.
Alan Barber
Chairman
21 March 2016
07
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Chief Executive’s review
Nick Stagg
The Group’s reported results in 2015 reflect the impact of the Disposal 
of a substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, which was announced 
in November 2015 and completed on 7 January 2016. The continuing 
operations of the Group comprise the retained Kurt Salmon business, 
focused on the global retail and consumer goods sector, and 
Alexander Proudfoot.
Overview 
The Group’s reported results in 2015 reflect 
the impact of the Disposal of a substantial 
part of the Kurt Salmon operations, to Solucom, 
which was announced in November 2015 and 
completed on 7 January 2016 (“the Disposal”). 
The results of the businesses which have 
been sold are reported in the 2015 Group 
financial statements (and in the restated 2014 
results) as discontinued operations. Reported 
discontinued operations in 2015 also reflect 
most of the financial effects of the Disposal 
and include related non-recurring items. 
The commentary below on the 2015 results 
(and 2014 comparatives) chiefly relates to 
the retained Kurt Salmon business and 
Alexander Proudfoot, which are reported 
in the 2015 Group financial statements 
as continuing operations. 
The Kurt Salmon businesses which were sold 
comprised the French operations and those 
operations in other geographies closely 
related to the French operations, namely 
the Kurt Salmon businesses in Belgium, 
Luxembourg, Switzerland and Morocco 
together with two New York-based practices 
within the larger Kurt Salmon operations 
in the United States. The majority of the 
Kurt Salmon operations in the United States 
have been retained by MCG. The Board 
concluded that the Disposal provided an 
opportunity to exit from the French and 
related operations at an attractive price for 
shareholders, given the limited potential for 
investment and growth in these operations 
as part of the MCG Group, thus reducing the 
Group’s significant exposure to the French 
market, and allowing MCG to repay its 
bank borrowings.
As a result of the Disposal, the proportion of 
the Group’s business which is derived from 
France and Continental Europe has reduced, 
and the relative proportion of the Group’s 
revenues from other markets, in particular 
  Revenues from continuing operations 
lower at £138.9m, reflecting weakness 
in Alexander Proudfoot
 Underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations lower at 
£0.8m, reflecting £6.1m profit in 
Kurt Salmon offset by loss-making 
Alexander Proudfoot
 The Group is debt free and in a 
strong financial position following 
completion of the Disposal
Highlights
08
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report North America, has increased. This is consistent 
with the Board’s strategy to focus on higher 
growth opportunities in North America and 
Asia. The Kurt Salmon business that the 
Group has retained is focused largely on serving 
global clients in the retail and consumer goods 
sector, where the business is a market leader.
MCG operates globally with 93% of 2015 
revenues from continuing operations generated 
outside the UK. The same proportion of the 
Group’s revenues from continuing operations 
in the year were billed in currencies other 
than Sterling, with the US Dollar representing 
approximately 65% of the total.
Continuing operations
The performance of the Group’s continuing 
operations in 2015 was affected by significantly 
weaker revenues in Alexander Proudfoot, 
which delivered a loss for the year as a whole. 
Reported revenues in the retained Kurt Salmon 
business were higher than in the previous 
year, although its margins were weaker. 
Total revenue from continuing operations 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 
£138.9m, 4.8% lower than the previous 
year (2014: £145.9m). 
The Group’s underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations in 2015 was £0.8m 
(2014: £7.7m), the reduction principally 
reflecting the impact of lower revenues and 
margins in Alexander Proudfoot, which report 
an underlying operating loss for the year as 
a whole of £5.3m (2014: £1.6m). Underlying 
operating profit in the retained Kurt Salmon 
business was lower than the previous year 
at £6.1m (2014: £9.3m).
“As a result of the Disposal, the proportion of the Group’s business which is derived 
from France and Continental Europe has reduced, and the relative proportion of the 
Group’s revenues from other markets, in particular North America, has increased. 
This is consistent with the Board’s strategy to focus on higher growth opportunities 
in North America and Asia. The Kurt Salmon business that the Group has retained 
is focused largely on serving global clients in the retail and consumer goods sector, 
where the business is a market leader.”
Nick Stagg Chief Executive
Underlying operating profit for 2015 reflects 
a charge of £1.2m relating to share awards 
made to employees (2014: £2.4m). Share 
awards have been made to promote retention 
and to improve employee alignment with 
shareholder value creation. 
As a consequence of the Disposal, in order 
to stabilise and motivate senior employees 
of the continuing operations of the Group, 
the Board has implemented a significant 
share-based retention plan focused on the 
retained Kurt Salmon business which has 
resulted, in January 2016, with the issue of 
further awards to employees over 42.4 million 
shares, normally vesting after three years. 
The total number of outstanding unvested 
awards to employees which are subject only 
to retention criteria is currently approximately 
58.6 million, of which 3.5 million are due to 
vest in 2016 (subject to continued employment). 
The Group’s employee benefits trusts currently 
hold 4.3 million shares, and the Group has 
shareholder approval to issue up to a further 
3.0 million new shares in order to satisfy 
vesting share awards. A further 2.4 million 
treasury shares are held by the Group. 
The Group is reporting net non-recurring 
expenses relating to continuing operations of 
£0.2m in 2015 (2014: £2.5m). These comprise 
restructuring-related redundancy costs of 
£1.1m, principally in Alexander Proudfoot, 
offset by the release of provisions of £0.9m 
relating to surplus property as a result of the 
Group rationalising its office accommodation 
in London and Atlanta.
The charge for amortisation of acquired 
intangibles in relation to continuing operations 
was £0.6m (2014: £0.8m). Consequently 
there was a loss from continuing operations 
of £0.1m (2014: £4.3m profit). 
Kurt Salmon 
The Digital World
Alexander Proudfoot 
New market offerings
Kurt Salmon is benefiting from 
its increasing expertise in digital 
transformation, helping clients across 
a range of industries to adapt their strategy 
and operations to the digital world.
Alexander Proudfoot’s powerful 
core offering is being expanded 
and developed in new directions 
to increase its flexibility and focus 
in response to client demand.
Read more about 
Alexander Proudfoot p16
Read more about 
Kurt Salmon p12
09
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Chief Executive’s review continued
Nick Stagg
Continuing operations continued
The net interest expense from continuing 
operations was higher at £3.7m (2014: £1.5m). 
In accordance with IAS 19 the reported net 
interest charge for 2015 includes an imputed 
charge in relation to defined benefit pensions 
of £1.7m (2014: £0.8m). 
The loss before tax on continuing operations 
was £3.7m (2014: £2.8m profit). The tax 
charge on continuing operations was £4.0m 
(2014: £4.9m), of which approximately £1.2m 
relates to the utilisation of losses reflected 
as a deferred tax asset and which therefore 
does not represent a cash tax outflow. 
The continuing high tax charge in 2015 reflects 
the impact of unrelieved losses in certain 
jurisdictions driven largely by loss-making 
operations, the impact of project specific 
withholding takes in Alexander Proudfoot and 
the effects of higher tax rates and certain 
taxable intra-group dividends in Kurt Salmon. 
Discontinued operations
The Disposal was completed on 7 January 2016 
but the transaction was sufficiently advanced 
as at 31 December 2015 to warrant treatment 
as a discontinued operation under IFRS 5 
“Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations”.
Discontinued operations comprise the 
underlying operating results for the year of 
the Kurt Salmon businesses which were part 
of the Disposal, the loss on sale related to the 
impairment of goodwill, and non-recurring items 
related to the operations of the businesses 
concerned and the Disposal itself. 
Revenues from discontinued operations in 2015 
were £91.5m (2014: £96.9m). Underlying 
operating profit from discontinued operations 
in 2015 was £4.8m (2014: £4.2m). Non-recurring 
expenses related to discontinued operations 
were £6.6m (2014: £0.4m), comprising 
severance costs relating to Chiheb Mahjoub 
of £2.0m, other non-recurring employee-related 
costs of £3.6m, and expenses related to share 
awards of £1.0m. Net finance costs relating 
to discontinued operations were £1.5m 
(2014: £1.6m) and the tax charge relating 
to discontinued operations was £1.2m 
(2014: £1.0m). Consequently the loss after 
taxation from discontinued operations for 
the period was £4.4m (2014: £1.1m profit). 
The loss on Disposal of £53.4m reported in 
the loss from discontinued operations line 
within the 2015 Group income statement 
arose as a result of the impairment of 
goodwill relating to the Kurt Salmon businesses 
which have been sold. The cash proceeds paid 
by the acquiror at completion were €89.0m 
(equivalent to £65.9m) which included €4.0m 
(equivalent to £3.0m) relating to estimated cash 
balances which remained in the businesses 
disposed of at the completion date. The 
consideration is subject to post-closing 
adjustments relating to amounts of debt, 
debt-like items, provisions and working 
capital at the completion date, and the 
reported loss on Disposal reflects estimates 
of the impact of such post-closing 
adjustments. Goodwill allocated to the 
businesses sold was £106.2m (before 
impairment) and £52.8m after impairment.
Taking into account the discontinued operations 
and the loss on Disposal, there was a total 
loss for the Group for the year attributable to 
the shareholders of £65.5m (2014: £1.0m). 
The underlying loss per share attributable to 
continuing operations was 1.5p (2014: 0.1p) 
and the basic loss per share attributable to 
continuing operations was 1.6p (2014: 0.4p).
Balance sheet and dividend
The Group balance sheet at 31 December 2015 
reflects the impact of the Disposal in January 
2016. The assets and liabilities of the business 
which have been sold are shown in the Group 
balance sheet as assets and liabilities held 
for sale of £91.8m and £33.1m respectively. 
The assets held for sale include the impaired 
goodwill and other intangible assets related 
to the businesses which have been sold 
of £52.8m, and cash balances of £5.3m. 
The net assets of the Group have decreased 
from £197.7m at 31 December 2014 to £129.3m 
at 31 December 2015, chiefly as a result of 
the loss on Disposal and the retained loss for 
the year from continuing operations.
The weak second half revenue performance 
in Alexander Proudfoot resulted in reported 
net debt increasing at the 2015 year end. 
Reported net debt at 31 December 2015 was 
£52.8m, excluding £5.3m of cash balances 
in the Kurt Salmon businesses which have 
been sold. This was £11.1m higher than 
the £41.7m reported at the half-year stage 
(2014 year end: £33.6m). The Group’s bank 
borrowings were repaid in full on 7 January 2016 
from the net proceeds of the Disposal and 
the Group’s existing borrowing facility was 
terminated on that date. The Group has been 
in a net cash position following completion of 
the Disposal on 7 January 2016; net cash at 
the end of February 2016 was £6.1m. The 
Group now has in place a three-year £15m 
working capital facility with HSBC, expiring 
in March 2019. 
The Board announced on 23 November 2015 
that no interim dividend for 2015 would be 
paid in January 2016, given the likely accounting 
impact of the impairment of investments as 
a result of the Disposal on the Company’s 
distributable reserves. The Board has reviewed 
the position following the completion of the 
Disposal and during preparation of the financial 
statements for 2015 and considers that it 
remains likely that it will seek to implement 
a reconstruction of reserves before dividend 
payments are resumed. The Board will 
consider the Company’s future dividend 
policy once this process is complete, and 
in light of the trading performance and 
financial position of the Group at that time.
10
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Summary 
The sale of the French and related operations 
of Kurt Salmon in January 2016 has had a 
significant impact on the reported results for 
2015, although the full effect of the Disposal 
on the Group’s financial position is only partly 
reflected in the Group’s reported balance sheet 
at 31 December 2015, since the payment of 
the consideration and other deal-related cash 
flows did not occur until after the year end. 
The expected financial impact of the Disposal 
is in line with that set out in the circular to 
shareholders dated 30 November 2015.
The reported results for 2015 from the Group’s 
continuing operations, being the Kurt Salmon 
business which the Group has retained, together 
with Alexander Proudfoot, are in line with 
the trading update provided at the time 
of the circular sent to shareholders dated 
30 November 2015. The weak second half 
performance of Alexander Proudfoot has 
been the principal driver of a disappointing 
overall result for the continuing operations 
of the Group. 
The changes to the Alexander Proudfoot business 
launched in 2014 in order to mitigate revenue 
volatility and restore the growth potential 
of the business for the longer term showed 
signs of success in the first half of the year 
in the key North American operations. These 
improvements in North America were not 
sustained in the second half, and the business 
as a whole has also suffered from significantly 
weaker demand from clients in the challenging 
natural resources sector. Alexander Proudfoot 
delivered an underlying operating loss of £5.3m 
for 2015, on revenues of £50.2m. The Board 
remains committed to executing its plan for 
restoring revenue growth and profitability in 
Alexander Proudfoot. 
The retained Kurt Salmon business is primarily 
a leading international consulting business in 
the retail and consumer goods sector, together 
with a successful US consulting business in 
the healthcare sector. Both of these practices 
delivered a satisfactory result in 2015 with 
reported revenues 4.5% higher. Although 
operating profit margins were lower year 
on year, partly as a result of investment in 
recruitment, and the business suffered from 
some weakness mid year, the underlying 
market trends remained positive. The retained 
Kurt Salmon business delivered an underlying 
operating profit of £6.1m for 2015 on revenues 
of £88.8m.
The Disposal has enabled the Group to repay 
bank borrowings in full and so MCG has started 
the current financial year in a strong financial 
position, being cash positive following the 
various cash flows arising as a result of 
completion of the Disposal, and with net 
cash at the end of February 2016 of £6.1m. 
The normal phasing of cash flows means 
that the Group typically experiences net 
cash outflows in the course of the first half 
of the year and a £15m working capital facility 
is in place to support the business through 
this cycle. 
Outlook
Global market conditions are more fragile 
now than a year ago, although following the 
Disposal the Group’s operations are now much 
more weighted towards the North American 
market, where economic indicators have 
remained relatively strong so far. The outlook 
for the Group in 2016 remains uncertain at 
this relatively early stage in the financial year.
The Board expects that Alexander Proudfoot 
will continue to be adversely affected by 
weakness in both emerging markets and 
in the key natural resources sector. Alexander 
Proudfoot currently has a more promising 
order book and pipeline than we have seen 
during the previous nine months, but activity 
levels are still well below those which the 
business has achieved in the past and at this 
stage the outlook remains uncertain. As a 
consequence, revenue is unlikely to quickly 
recover to historic levels. However the Board 
remains confident that in the medium term 
the changes made to the business will in time 
build a firm platform for growth and profitability.
The Kurt Salmon business is now largely 
focused on the global retail and consumer 
goods sector, together with a smaller US 
based healthcare business. The retail and 
consumer goods practice has had a good 
start to the year, particularly in the US, and 
current market trends remain positive for 
2016 as a whole. 
The Group will continue to consider 
opportunities to further invest in and grow 
the Group’s remaining businesses while 
remaining alert to all opportunities to 
generate value for shareholders. 
Nick Stagg
Chief Executive
21 March 2016
11
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Kurt Salmon is a global management consulting firm that delivers 
client value through industry specialisation, deep transformational 
expertise and a strong implementation focus. We use our 80 years 
of industry excellence as the foundation for driving new thinking 
and innovation to deliver superior results and prepare our clients 
for success in the unknowable future. 
Strategic report
 
Kurt Salmon Segmental review
Kurt Salmon
What sets us apart
Kurt Salmon business model
Kurt Salmon is a global management consulting firm dedicated to building the market leaders 
of tomorrow – whatever tomorrow might look like. We effect real change and understand that 
while business challenges follow common trends, each of our clients is unique. So we do more 
than just partner with clients. We integrate seamlessly with them to develop innovative and 
customised responses to the increasing complexities of business in the 21st century.
Digital disruption 
is the new normal
The competitive landscape is 
changing at an ever-faster pace, 
and business models that were 
traditionally successful no longer 
work. Kurt Salmon helps clients 
to address the challenges of 
the digital world 
The customer is king
Information that was once 
proprietary is now available 
to everyone, and options are 
seemingly limitless. Today’s 
empowered consumer knows 
more, compares more, demands 
more and is less loyal. 
Customers are at the heart of 
Kurt Salmon’s approach
Competition, once local, 
is now global
Companies that would never 
have been considered a threat 
are suddenly encroaching on 
vulnerable businesses. At Kurt 
Salmon we help our clients to 
understand and evolve to meet 
these market challenges 
Operations are strategic
Operations must be reshaped 
and honed to become a source 
of competitive advantage, and 
the search for talent must shift 
to the search for the right talent. 
Kurt Salmon has decades of 
experience turning strategic 
intent into effective 
operational excellence
Business drivers
Our approach 
The most successful organisations integrate strategic 
insight, operational excellence and a deep understanding 
of their customers. They take an integrated approach, 
refusing to compromise between these key components 
of competitive advantage. So do we.
Our combination of perspective, skills, experience and 
cultural adaptability uniquely enables us to help our 
clients succeed both now and tomorrow, no matter 
what tomorrow brings. We call it delivering “success 
for what’s next.”
Success for what’s next
Long term client  
relationships
Results-driven 
transformation
Deep  
industry 
expertise
KS
MCG
AP
13
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Segmental review continued
Kurt Salmon continued
Results for the year
The Kurt Salmon continuing operations reported 
revenue for 2015 of £88.8m, some £3.8m or 
4.5% higher than 2014 revenues of £85.0m. 
On a constant currency basis at 2014 exchange 
rates the 2015 revenues would have been 
£85.2m, in line with the previous year. 
Underlying operating profit for 2015 was 
£6.1m (2014: £9.3m) representing a margin 
of 6.9% (2014: 10.9%). 
The number of staff employed by Kurt Salmon’s 
continuing operations increased by 31 during 
the year from 397 at the end of 2014 to 428 
at the end of 2015. The overall increase in 
headcount reflects investment in recruitment 
at all levels to build a platform for revenue 
growth. Average headcount during 2015 
was 57 higher than the previous year at 
436 (2014: 379).
Review of operations
The continuing operations of Kurt Salmon 
comprise an international practice serving 
clients in the retail and consumer goods 
sector, representing approximately 80% 
of 2015 Kurt Salmon revenues, and a 
US-based practice serving clients in the 
healthcare sector, representing approximately 
20% of 2015 revenues. Kurt Salmon has 
its headquarter operations in New York and 
operates in the United States from offices 
in New York, Atlanta and San Francisco. 
In Europe Kurt Salmon operates from 
offices in Dusseldorf and London, and 
in Asia Kurt Salmon has offices in Tokyo, 
Shanghai and Hong Kong.
Kurt Salmon’s retail and consumer goods 
practice in North America delivered more than 
half the 2015 revenues for the continuing 
operations of Kurt Salmon. The business has 
continued to benefit from demand from US 
retail clients facing the challenges of adapting 
business models and operations to a digital 
environment. Revenues on a constant 
currency basis were slightly lower year on 
year, partly the result of strong comparatives 
in 2014 during which revenues increased by 
more than 9%. The year on year performance 
was also affected in 2015 by some weakness 
mid year as certain larger client projects were 
completed and not immediately replaced. 
Deep industry expertise and broad perspective
Kurt Salmon is a global management consultancy business that partners with 
its clients to drive innovative strategies and solutions that make a lasting and 
meaningful impact on their businesses to build the market leaders of 
tomorrow. Kurt Salmon operates internationally in the retail and consumer 
goods sector and in the healthcare sector in the United States.
  Revenues 4. 5% higher at £88.8m, 
benefiting from the translation impact 
of a stronger US Dollar
 Underlying operating profit lower at 
£6.1m, reflecting the adverse margin 
impact of investment in recruitment 
to drive future revenue growth
 Now highly focused on global retail 
and consumer goods sector, plus US 
healthcare practice
 Continuing development of digital 
transformation consulting for 
retailers, enhanced by small 
acquisition in the US
15 15 15
14 14 14 85.0 9.3 10.9
88.8 6.1 6.9
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating profit (£m) Underlying operating profit margin (%)
£88.8m £6.1m 6.9%
Key performance indicators
(from continuing operations)
Highlights
14
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report 1 2 3
Strategic priorities
Kurt Salmon is focusing on growth markets and digital transformation.
Strengthening existing global 
industry capabilities in the retail 
and consumer goods sector
Supporting and investing for 
growth in North America 
and Asia
Enhancing growing leadership 
position in digital 
transformation
 Read more about how we are putting  
our strategy in practice on p13
Nevertheless underlying demand remained 
healthy and the business reported a stronger 
finish to the financial year. 
Operating profit margins were adversely 
affected by the impact of recruitment during 
the year, in anticipation of revenue growth 
which did not materialise on the scale expected 
in 2015 however the Board believes this 
should leave the business well placed for 
growth in 2016.
In October 2015 Kurt Salmon completed the 
acquisition of Mobispoke LLC, a small US 
digital retail technology consulting business 
for a consideration of £0.6m. Mobispoke will 
operate as Kurt Salmon Digital, and will focus 
on new technologies and transformative 
strategies for Kurt Salmon’s retail clients, 
including, for example, smart fitting rooms, 
integrated mobile apps and other leading-edge, 
interactive shopping experience technologies. 
The consideration payable for Mobispoke, 
some of which is deferred and contingent 
on performance over two years, comprises 
cash and MCG shares. 
The European operations of the retained 
Kurt Salmon business, which represented 
approximately 15% of 2015 revenues for the 
continuing operations of Kurt Salmon, are 
focused on the retail and consumer goods 
practices in Germany and the UK, although 
the business also delivers services in other 
European geographies.
The German operations delivered a strong 
performance, growing revenues and margins. 
In the UK, year on year revenues and margins 
were significantly lower, reflecting the impact 
of the winding down and completion of a 
number of larger projects for clients during 
the year. In both Germany and the UK, 
Kurt Salmon is a strong brand in the retail 
sector and the underlying market trends 
during 2015 remained encouraging.
The Kurt Salmon retail consulting operations 
in China and Japan represented approximately 
10% of 2015 revenues for the continuing 
operations of Kurt Salmon and have continued 
to make progress, with both geographies 
reporting increased revenues year on year. 
The Kurt Salmon US healthcare consulting 
practice represented around 20% of 2015 
revenues for the continuing operations of 
Kurt Salmon and delivered a satisfactory 
performance for the year, with broadly stable 
revenues. The practice mainly serves large 
leading US hospital groups focusing on strategic 
planning around facilities, but has also delivered 
projects on an international basis. 
Following the Disposal, in January 2016, the 
Kurt Salmon US business retained by MCG 
will provide certain services to the buyer, 
Solucom, under the terms of Transitional 
Services Agreements. In 2016 these 
arrangements will provide a contribution 
to the indirect costs of the retained 
Kurt Salmon business in North America. 
Under the terms of a licence agreement, 
Solucom may use the Kurt Salmon name 
for a period of three years in certain specified 
territories, and both Solucom and MCG have 
agreed to certain restrictive covenants in 
relation to competition in specified territories 
over the same period. The Board of MCG 
does not expect these arrangements to 
adversely affect the operations of the 
retained Kurt Salmon business in the retail 
and consumer goods and healthcare sectors 
in which it operates.
“The business has benefited from increasing demand from US retail 
clients facing the challenges of adapting business models 
and operations to a digital environment.”
15
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Alexander Proudfoot delivers measurable financial benefits to its clients 
by developing and installing processes and programmes to improve 
their operating performance by increasing revenues and productivity, 
reducing costs and generating incremental cash flow.
Strategic report
Alexander 
Proudfoot Segmental review continued
Alexander Proudfoot
What sets us apart
Alexander Proudfoot business model
Alexander Proudfoot helps executives achieve their revenue and  
profit goals with greater speed, predictability and control.  
Business leaders who need substantial results in a short period  
of time rely on Alexander Proudfoot.
Tried and tested 
methodology
We use a long established and 
proven methodology that can 
be applied to any business 
environment where there are 
large scale processes. Over 65 
years we have completed more 
than 16,000 projects across 
the globe
Disciplined and 
structured approach
Our teams develop on-site 
solutions that combine a 
common methodology with a 
collaborative approach, working 
hand-in-hand with client staff, 
with a strong infrastructure of 
support to deliver results
Expertise and specialists
We bring industry and technical 
expertise where it is required, 
building on our deep knowledge 
and experience in the many 
industry sectors and operating 
environments in which we have 
a track record of success 
Sustainable 
improvements
We specialise in the installation 
of performance programmes 
that deliver rapid and sustainable 
operational and financial 
improvements – the key 
drivers of profitability and 
shareholder value
Business drivers
Our approach 
At the outset we work to understand our client’s 
strategy and plans and in the analysis phase to 
identify opportunities for operational and 
financial improvements.
We implement transformational programmes on 
site to help clients better execute their plans to 
deliver substantial improvements in performance 
and profitability, with speed and certainty.
A compelling proposition 
for clients with a track 
record of success
KS
MCG
AP
Sustainable  
results
Speed and  
certainty
Proven  
methodology
17
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Segmental review continued
Alexander Proudfoot continued
Results for the year
Alexander Proudfoot’s reported revenue 
for 2015 was 17.6% lower at £50.2m 
(2014: £60.9m). The year on year comparison 
has been affected by negative currency 
translation effects; at 2014 exchange rates 
the 2015 revenues would have been £51.8m, 
a decrease of 14.9% on 2014. Alexander 
Proudfoot reported a small underlying operating 
loss for the first half of 2015 of £0.4m on 
revenues of £29.3m. In line with the Board’s 
expectations highlighted in the trading update 
on 23 November 2015 second half revenues 
were significantly weaker at £20.9m generating 
an underlying operating loss for the year 
as a whole of £5.3m (2014: £1.6m).
The number of staff employed by Alexander 
Proudfoot decreased from 327 at the end of 
2014 to 301 at the end of 2015. Notwithstanding 
the overall reduction in numbers, as a result 
of lower revenues and activity, the business 
has continued its investment in people and 
capabilities during 2015, adding industry 
sector expertise and strengthening the 
team of executives responsible for business 
development. Average headcount during 
2015 was lower than the previous year at 
307 (2014: 343).
Review of operations 
Alexander Proudfoot is now organised on the 
basis of two regional centres, one focused on 
The Americas and one focused on Europe/
Africa/Asia. The principal office locations are 
in the United States, Brazil and Chile, serving 
The Americas, and in the UK, France, 
South Africa and Hong Kong. There is also 
a dedicated natural resources business 
unit working across geographies. Alexander 
Proudfoot has a global delivery capability, 
frequently operating in remote and 
difficult locations.
Transforming operational performance
Alexander Proudfoot helps clients to achieve their revenue and profit goals 
with greater speed, predictability and control. Business leaders who need 
substantial results in a short period of time rely on Proudfoot to work 
hand-in-hand with their people.
 Revenues 17.6% lower at £50.2m, 
driving a £5.3m underlying operating 
loss for the year
 Weak revenues in second half followed 
positive progress in US in first half
 Reduced demand from natural 
resources clients in 2015, but 
this sector still represented 
40% of revenues 
 Better start to 2016, but current 
activity levels remain below those 
achieved in the past
15 15
14 14
13 13
12 12
11 11
60.9 (1.6)
50.2 (5.3)
68.8 7.4
86.7 12.2
87.0 11.6
Revenue (£m) Underlying operating (loss)/profit (£m)
£50.2m £(5.3)m
Key performance indicators
Highlights
18
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report 1 2 3
Strategic priorities
We are developing the Alexander Proudfoot model and offering to provide a firmer platform for growth.
Broadening the offering 
and developing new  
delivery capabilities
Building long-term client 
relationships and increasing 
repeat work
Improving revenue visibility 
and reducing volatility
Read more about how we are putting  
our strategy in practice on p17
In 2014 the Board of MCG announced that 
it intended to invest in and develop the 
Alexander Proudfoot offering in order to help 
build a more stable and predictable revenue 
base and drive top-line growth. Good progress 
was made during the first half of 2015 in 
implementing these changes. In the North 
American operations, where the change 
process was most advanced, first half 
revenues in 2015 were 25% higher than the 
previous six month period. The improved first 
half performance in North America was 
countered by weakness in other geographies, 
Europe, Africa and Asia in particular, where 
the conversion of pipeline opportunities was 
disappointing. At the half-year stage some 
management changes were made, and the 
new regional structure for the business units 
outside The Americas was put in place. 
As previously reported the order book at the 
half-year stage was significantly lower year 
on year and order intake in the third quarter 
was poor. In addition weaker demand from 
natural resources clients has affected revenue 
opportunities in that sector. The trading 
update released on 23 November highlighted 
the significant deterioration in the outlook 
for the year as a whole. The North American 
operations, which had underpinned the 
first half performance of the business as 
a whole, reported lower revenues and a 
broadly break-even profit performance 
for the second half, and elsewhere the 
business reported losses.
Action was taken in the second half of 2015 
to mitigate the profit impact of lower revenues 
by reducing headcount and discretionary 
expenditure, although a significant element 
of the operating costs of the business relate 
to the sales function and infrastructure of the 
business across a range of geographies and 
these are less easily flexed downwards 
without reducing the potential for revenue 
recovery and growth in the future.
The poor second half revenue performance 
persisted to the end of the year. The order 
book position at the year end remained weak, 
although the pipeline of prospects at that stage 
suggested a more encouraging start to 2016.
Alexander Proudfoot has a long and successful 
history. It has a distinctive operating model 
which delivers real value to clients, together 
with global reach and a flexible delivery 
capability. The business is currently undergoing 
its planned transition to develop a platform for 
profitable growth, focusing on new delivery 
capabilities and building long term client 
relationships. The Board of MCG continued 
to execute the changes needed to implement 
this plan during 2015 and it remains confident 
that the performance of the business can 
be improved in the medium term.
19
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Corporate social responsibility
Our people
The Group is committed to making a positive 
social and economic contribution in all places 
it operates.
This is driven by the Board. Emphasis is placed 
on ensuring that we continue to create and 
maintain trust in and loyalty to our Group by 
all our stakeholders. 
The Board is responsible for the social, 
environmental and ethical (“SEE“) impact 
of the Group’s business and ensures that any 
risks arising are being managed appropriately. 
On an annual basis the Board assesses the 
Group’s exposure to SEE matters based 
on feedback from management. Overall, for 
the current year the Board has concluded that 
the Group’s exposure to SEE risks is limited, 
primarily due to the nature of its operations. 
Further information on the environmental and 
ethical policies adopted is provided below.
The Group has an active corporate social 
responsibility agenda which covers work 
with various non-profit organisations and 
government ministries. 
Human rights and health 
and safety requirements
The Group is committed to achieving and 
maintaining the highest standards of health, 
safety and welfare and human rights for its 
employees throughout the world. Employees 
are the Group’s most important asset and 
their health and safety is critical to business 
performance by reducing the costs associated 
with workplace injuries and ill health.
1,527
1,206
301
MCG Group 
(2014: 1,509) 
Kurt Salmon 
(2014: 1,161)
Alexander Proudfoot 
(2014: 327) 
Senior management Total workforce
85% 65%
15% 35%
75%
63%
37%
25%
KS
AP
87%
85%
15%
13%
KS
AP
No. MCG employees
Gender diversity
(2014: 63%) (2014: 83%)
(2014: 37%) (2014: 17%)
The Group is committed to carrying out its business activities  
to the highest ethical standards and to make a positive impact  
with its stakeholders.
20
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report
1,527 The Group aims to comply with all laws, 
regulations and official guidelines relating to 
health and safety and human rights in all its 
offices throughout the world. Due to the many 
different locations of the Group’s offices, 
the Group does not have a single detailed 
worldwide policy. Instead, it is the responsibility 
of a senior employee in each office to ensure 
that his or her office meets the high standards 
for which the Group aims.
Group ethics
The Group subscribes to the Association 
of Management Consulting Firms’ Code 
of Ethics (available at www.amcf.org) and, 
in the UK, the Code of Practice of the UK 
Management Consultancies Association 
(available at www.mca.org.uk).
The codes of ethics conform to regulatory 
and legislative initiatives and assure the users 
of consulting services that members are 
publicly committed to providing the highest 
quality work. 
Whistleblowing
The Board considers the financial management 
team as holding an important role in corporate 
governance, having both the responsibility 
and authority to protect, balance and 
preserve the interests of all stakeholders. 
All employees can voice their concerns 
about any unethical behaviour through a 
confidential internal whistleblowing process.
Employees
The Group operates in a number of countries 
and its employment practices vary to meet 
local requirements and best practices within 
a framework established by the Group.
It is Group policy that all people be treated with 
dignity and respect. The Group is committed to 
providing and fostering a working environment 
that is free from harassment, discrimination, 
victimisation or bullying.
Our ability to operate as a high performing 
organisation depends on our inclusion of 
people who come from diverse backgrounds. 
This is particularly the case given the wide 
geographical spread of the Group’s operations. 
It is Group policy to ensure equal opportunities 
exist without discrimination for all employees, 
irrespective of their race, colour, creed, religion, 
gender, ancestry, citizenship, sexual preference, 
marital status, national origin, age, pregnancy, 
disability or any other reason prohibited by 
the laws of the individual countries in which 
it operates. This applies with respect to 
recruitment, promotion, compensation, transfer, 
retention, training and other employment 
actions. In South Africa the Group operates 
positive discrimination in respect of previously 
disadvantaged individuals. Wherever possible 
the employment of members of staff who 
become disabled will be continued and 
appropriate training and career development 
will be offered.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on the 
involvement of its employees and has continued 
to keep them informed on matters affecting 
them as employees and on the various factors 
affecting the performance of the Group. 
This is achieved through formal and informal 
meetings. The Chief Executive has a travel 
schedule which includes all the business 
locations and holds informal discussions with 
a wide range of employees. The Group operates 
various bonus schemes for employees, which 
are linked to the profitability of the business 
unit and the Group.
“Employees are the Group’s most important asset and their  
health and safety is critical to business performance.”
21
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued
Our impact
Environmental policy
The Group’s environmental policy aims 
to minimise, where practical, the Group’s 
impact on the environment. 
As a group of professional services companies, 
the Group’s business has a relatively small 
impact on the environment. Nevertheless, 
the Board recognises the quality of the 
environment in which it operates is a concern 
for its stakeholders and others in the community 
and consequently is essential to the long-term 
financial performance of the Group.
The Group ensures that all laws, regulations 
and official guidelines in the countries in which 
it operates are complied with. The Group is a 
member of the United Nations Global Compact.
The Group’s Environmental Officer is 
responsible for the ongoing monitoring 
of areas where the Group could have an 
impact on the environment and takes steps 
to reduce this impact. These are detailed 
below. Reviews of the quantitative impact 
on the environment in these and other areas 
will continue to be undertaken to enable 
the Group’s environmental performance 
to be assessed and further improved.
Waste and recycling
The increase in waste generated is a serious 
problem in many of the countries in which the 
Group operates. The shortage of new landfill 
sites in these countries is well documented, 
as are the potential health impacts and carbon 
dioxide emissions caused by landfill sites.
Energy use and climate change
Carbon dioxide is one of the most significant 
air pollutants as a by product of energy 
consumption and is the major contributor 
to the “enhanced greenhouse gas effect“. 
We continue with the programme to measure 
the amount of electricity being used in our 
largest offices, to identify where reductions 
can be made in the future.
Due to the nature of the business and 
the need for employees with appropriate 
experience to work on projects, employees 
regularly need to travel to clients’ sites. 
The Group’s employees are encouraged, 
wherever possible, to share private road 
transport or use public transport.
The Group ensures that all laws, regulations and official guidelines  
in the countries in which it operates are complied with.
Total greenhouse gas emissions
694.3 tCO
2
e
Scope 1 emissions:  
Natural gas refrigerants
661.1 tCO
2
e
Scope 2 emissions:  
Purchased electricity
33.2 tCO
2
e
Greenhouse gas emissions per FTE: 
FTE
0.44 tCO
2
e
In line with regulatory requirements, this report includes 
emissions data for scope 1 and scope 2 only. Emission data has 
been reported for our offices in the UK, France, US, Germany, 
South Africa, Brazil, Luxembourg and China.
Our emissions
22
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Whilst further improvements are being targeted, 
the Group continues to progress in reducing 
energy consumption. The principal methods 
adopted by the Group to reduce energy 
consumption are as follows:
 – installing automatic power off systems 
on lights and certain equipment;
 – using energy efficient lighting;
 – using time switches on air conditioning 
systems; and
 – reducing travel by making use of video 
conferencing and web-based facilities.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We have used the main requirements of 
the greenhouse gas GHG protocol corporate 
accounting and reporting standard (revised 
edition) and the international standard 
ISO14064–1 (2006) to issue our report 
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
The greenhouse gas emissions statement 
opposite provides a summary of the 
Company’s greenhouse gas emissions 
from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015. 
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel 
combustion and the operation of our office 
buildings (scope 1), and from our purchased 
electricity during the year (scope 2). We have 
reported on all of the relevant emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 using the operational 
control approach.
Greenhouse gas emissions statement 
ASSESSMENT PARAMETERS
Baseline year 1 October 2012 – 30 September 2013 used as a baseline year
Consolidation 
approach
Operational control
Boundary 
summary
All facilities under operational control were included in our assessment
Consistency with 
the financial 
statements
The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those 
assets listed in our financial statements as all of our greenhouse gas 
emissions relate to our leased offices
Emission factor 
data source
Defra (October 2014)
Assessment 
methodology
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (revised, edition 2004) and ISO 14064–1 (2006)
Materiality 
threshold
The materiality threshold was set at Group level at 3% with all facilities 
estimated to contribute > 1% of total emissions included
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee equivalent (FTE)
2014/15 2012/13
Greenhouse gas emission source tCO
2
e tCO
2
e/FTE tCO
2
e tCO
2
e/FTE
Scope 1 33.2 0.01 42.4 0.03
Fuel combustion (natural gas) 8.3 0.01 25.8 0.02
Operation of facilities (refrigerants) 24.9 0.02 16.7 0.01
Scope 2 661.1 0.43 751.3 0.47
Purchased electricity 661.1 0.43 751.3 0.47
Statutory total (Scope 1 and 2)* 694.3 0.44 793.7 0.50
*  Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.
Group metrics 2015 2013
FTE 1,527 1,581
Intensity ratio (gross emissions) 2015 2013
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per FTE (tCO
2
e/FTE) 0.44 0.50
23
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Financial review
Chris Povey
Exchange rates
In 2015 MCG derived the majority of its revenue 
and most of its expenditure from outside the 
United Kingdom and in currencies other than 
Sterling. As the Group’s results are presented 
in Sterling, changes in average exchange 
rates, particularly those of the US Dollar and 
the Euro in relation to Sterling, can have a 
significant effect on the translation of those 
results. About 60% of the Group’s 2015 
revenues from continuing operations were 
generated in US Dollars and, on average, in 
2015 compared with 2014, Sterling weakened 
against the US Dollar by approximately 8%. 
Against the Euro, the currency in which 
around 12% of the Group’s revenues from 
continuing operations were denominated, 
Sterling strengthened by approximately 
10%. The average exchange rates used to 
translate the 2015 results were £1=$1.5293 
(2014: £1=$1.6494) for the US Dollar and 
£1=€1.3776 (2014: £1=€1.2411) for the Euro. 
During 2015, Sterling also strengthened 
significantly against the Brazilian Real 
(by 24%), the South African Rand (by 9%) 
and the Canadian Dollar (by 7%), which had 
an adverse impact on the reported results 
of the Alexander Proudfoot operations in 
those currencies. 
In overall terms, changes in average exchange 
rates had a positive effect on reported 
revenue from continuing operations for the 
Group as a whole in 2015. The profit impact 
of exchange rate shifts is mitigated by the 
large degree of natural hedging in the Group’s 
operations in that its expenses are broadly 
denominated in a similar mix of currencies 
to its revenues. 
Employees in continuing operations
There were 748 people employed in the 
continuing operations of the Group at the end 
of 2015 compared to 745 at the end of 2014. 
The average number of people employed by 
the continuing operations of the Group during 
the year was 765 (2014: 743). The small 
increase in numbers at the end of 2015 
reflects the net impact of recruitment in 
Kurt Salmon, offset by planned reductions 
in headcount in Alexander Proudfoot.
Revenue from continuing operations 
Total revenue from continuing operations 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 
was £7.0m lower than the previous year 
at £138.9m (2014: £145.9m). The reduction 
in revenue reflects lower reported revenues 
in Alexander Proudfoot, offset by higher 
revenues in the retained Kurt Salmon business. 
Alexander Proudfoot accounted for 36% 
of the Group’s revenue from continuing 
operations (2014: 42%) and Kurt Salmon 
for 64% (2014: 58%).
Alexander Proudfoot reported 2015 revenues 
17.6% lower than the previous year at £50.2m 
(2014: £60.9m), reflecting, in particular, weak 
activity levels in the second half of the year. 
The revenues of the retained Kurt Salmon 
business for the year were 4.5% higher 
at £88.8m (2014: £85.0m). On a constant 
currency basis, at 2014 exchange rates 2015 
revenues for the Group as a whole would 
have been £137.0m, a decrease of 6.1% 
on the previous year. 
In terms of geography for the continuing 
operations of the Group as a whole, the 
business units in The Americas reported an 
increase in revenue to £96.5m (2014: £93.5m). 
Revenue from the Americas accounted for 
69.5% of Group revenue (2014: 64.1%). 
Revenue from continuing operations in 
Europe decreased to £26.5m (2014: £32.8m), 
slightly reducing its share of total revenue 
to 19.0% (2014: 22.5%). The Rest of the World, 
with revenues predominantly from Africa, 
Japan and China, accounted for 11.5% of 
24
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Group revenue from continuing operations 
(2014: 13.3%) at £16.0m (2014: £19.5m). 
Segmental revenues are reported on the 
basis of the location of the business unit 
where the client project is sold and the revenue 
accounted for, which is the basis on which 
the Group’s operations are managed. This 
may differ from the geography in which the 
project is delivered, particularly in the 
Alexander Proudfoot business. 
Underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations
Underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations in 2015 was £6.9m lower at 
£0.8m (2014: £7.7m). This chiefly reflects the 
weaker revenue and margin performance in 
Alexander Proudfoot. As a result, the underlying 
operating profit margin from continuing 
operations for the Group as a whole decreased 
from 5.3% in 2014 to 0.6% in 2015.
Underlying operating profit in 2015 reflected 
a charge of £1.2m relating to share awards 
(2014: £2.4m). Excluding the cost of share 
awards, underlying operating profit was 
£2.0m, which would represent a margin 
of 1.4% (2014: £10.1m and 6.9%). 
Underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations in 2015 also reflects a charge of 
£0.2m relating to part of the consideration 
payable for the acquisition of Mobispoke by 
the Kurt Salmon US business which is required, 
under IFRS 3, to be treated as remuneration 
in the Group income statement.
Alexander Proudfoot reported an underlying 
operating loss of £5.3m (2014: £1.6m). 
Kurt Salmon’s continuing operations 
reported a lower underlying operating 
profit of £6.1m (2014: £9.3m).
Non-recurring costs related 
to continuing operations
The Group is reporting net non-recurring 
expenses from continuing operations of £0.2m 
in 2015 (2014: £2.5m). These comprise 
restructuring related redundancy costs of 
£1.1m, principally in Alexander Proudfoot, 
offset by the release of provisions of £0.9m 
relating to surplus property as a result of the 
Group rationalising its office accommodation 
in London and Atlanta.
Profit from continuing operations
The charge for the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets was £0.6m (2014: £0.8m). 
Consequently, there was a loss from continuing 
operations of £0.1m (2014: profit of £4.3m), 
representing a negative margin of 0.1% 
(2014: positive margin of 2.9%).
Interest on continuing operations
The total net finance charge for continuing 
operations was £3.7m (2014: £1.5m). 
The total interest payable on borrowings 
related to continuing operations was £2.0m 
(2014: £0.8m). The net finance charge also 
includes an imputed charge in relation to defined 
benefit pensions of £1.7m (2014: £0.8m).
Taxation on continuing operations
The taxation expense on continuing operations 
for the year was £4.0m (2014: £4.9m). 
The high tax charge in 2015, given the reported 
loss position overall, largely reflects the impact 
of tax charges in the Alexander Proudfoot 
business. Alexander Proudfoot has reported 
losses in most jurisdictions outside the 
United States, which are not available to 
relieve taxable profits elsewhere. In addition, 
the business has suffered project-specific 
withholding taxes in certain geographies. 
15 15 15
14 14 14 145.9 7.7 5.3
138.9 0.8 0.6
Revenue from continuing operations (£m) Underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations (£m)
Underlying operating profit margin from 
continuing operations (%)
£138.9m £0.8m 0.6%
25
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Taxation on continuing  
operations continued
Of the £4.0m total tax charge in relation to 
continuing operations, £1.2m relates to the 
utilisation of tax losses which were previously 
recognised as a deferred tax asset in the 
Group balance sheet, and as a result does not 
give rise to a cash tax outflow. The Group still 
has tax losses in various jurisdictions upon 
which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 
as the ability to utilise these tax losses 
is uncertain and dependent, inter alia, on 
trading profitability.
Discontinued operations
The Disposal was completed on 7 January 2016 
but the transaction was sufficiently advanced 
as at 31 December 2015 to warrant treatment 
as a discontinued operation under IFRS 5 
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations. Discontinued 
operations comprise the underlying operating 
results for the year of the Kurt Salmon 
businesses which were part of the Disposal, 
the loss on sale related to the impairment of 
goodwill, and non-recurring items related to 
the operations of the businesses concerned 
and the Disposal itself. 
Revenues from discontinued operations in 2015 
were £91.5m (2014: £96.9m). Underlying 
operating profit from discontinued operations 
in 2015 was £4.8m (2014: £4.2m). Non-recurring 
expenses related to discontinued operations 
were £6.6m (2014: £0.4m), comprising 
severance costs relating to Chiheb Mahjoub 
of £2.0m, other non-recurring employee 
related costs of £3.6m and expenses related 
to share awards of £1.0m. Net finance costs 
relating to discontinued operations were 
£1.5m (2014: £1.6m) and the tax charge 
relating to discontinued operations was £1.2m 
(2014: £1.0m). Consequently, the loss after 
taxation from discontinued operations for the 
period was £4.4m (2014: £1.1m profit). 
The loss on Disposal of £53.4m reported within 
the loss from discontinued operations line in 
the 2015 Group income statement arises as 
a result of the impairment of goodwill relating 
to the Kurt Salmon businesses which have 
been sold. The cash proceeds which were 
paid by the acquirer at completion were €89.0m 
(equivalent to £65.9m), which included €4.0m 
(equivalent to £3.0m) relating to estimated 
cash balances which remained in the businesses 
disposed of at the completion date. The 
consideration is subject to post-closing 
adjustments relating to amounts of debt, 
debt-like items, provisions and working capital 
at the completion date, and the reported loss 
on Disposal reflects estimates of the impact 
of such post-closing adjustments. Goodwill 
allocated to the businesses sold was £106.2m 
(before impairment) and £52.8m after 
impairment, representing the estimated 
consideration net of transaction fees.
The completion of the Disposal in January 2016 
is expected to give rise to a taxable gain on 
certain elements of the businesses which have 
been sold, the tax charge on which, estimated 
at £1.8m, will be reflected in the Group income 
statement for 2016. The reported loss on 
Disposal does not reflect the recycling through 
the profit and loss account of a credit of 
approximately £3.2m relating to currency 
translation reserves which is required to be 
reflected in the 2016 financial statements. 
Earnings per share
The Group reported a loss for the year 
attributable to the shareholders of £65.5m 
(2014: £1.0m). The basic and diluted loss per 
share was 13.3p (2014: 0.2p). The underlying 
basic and diluted loss per share, after adjusting 
for non-recurring items and the amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, was 1.1p (2014: earnings 
per share 0.2p).
Net assets
The assets and liabilities of the Kurt Salmon 
business which were the subject of Disposal 
are shown in the Group balance sheet 
as assets and liabilities held for sale at 
31 December 2015, with the net assets 
written down to their recoverable value, 
resulting in an impairment to the goodwill 
related to the Kurt Salmon business. 
The assets and liabilities held for sale are 
£91.8m and £33.1m respectively. The assets 
held for sale include the impaired goodwill 
and other intangible assets related to the 
businesses which have been sold of £52.8m 
and cash balances of £5.3m. The net assets 
of the Group have decreased from £197.7m 
at 31 December 2014 to £129.3m at 
31 December 2015, chiefly as a result of 
the loss on Disposal and the retained loss 
for the year from continuing operations.
The largest item on the balance sheet at 
31 December 2015 is goodwill recognised 
on acquisitions, comprising £104.2m relating 
to the retained Kurt Salmon business and 
£40.1m relating to Alexander Proudfoot. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, 
based on determining recoverable amounts 
from value-in-use calculations for each of 
Kurt Salmon and Alexander Proudfoot. The 
Board has concluded that the recoverable 
amounts exceed the carrying value of goodwill 
at 31 December 2015, even after considering 
sensitivity analysis on key assumptions. 
In relation to Alexander Proudfoot, the 
headroom in terms of the excess value in use 
over the carrying value has reduced significantly 
at 31 December 2015 compared with 
31 December 2014. The value-in-use 
assessment in relation to the Alexander 
Proudfoot goodwill reflects the Board’s 
expectation that the recent weak trading 
performance of the business will not persist. 
The Group holds the majority of its assets 
and liabilities in currencies other than Sterling, 
particularly the US Dollar and the Euro, and 
translates the value of these into Sterling 
at the year end exchange rate. Comparing 
exchange rates at the beginning and the 
end of 2014, Sterling strengthened against 
the Euro by 10% and weakened against the 
US Dollar by 8%. The year end exchange rates 
used to translate the 2015 balance sheet 
were £1=$1.4740 (2014: £1=$1.5560) for the 
US Dollar and £1=€1.3559 (2014: £1=€1.2757) 
for the Euro. 
Financial review continued
Chris Povey
26
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Pension obligations
The retirement benefits obligation reflected 
in the Group balance sheet relates to the 
net liability under a part-funded US defined 
benefit pension scheme of £9.6m, an unfunded 
US post-retirement medical benefits plan 
of £2.4m, an unfunded German retirement 
obligation of £9.5m and an unfunded French 
retirement obligation of £0.3m. There are no 
defined benefit schemes in the Group that 
are open to new employees, and, in the case 
of the closed US defined benefit pension 
scheme the existing members are not accruing 
further benefits. The net post-retirement 
obligation for defined benefit schemes decreased 
from £22.9m at 31 December 2014 to £21.8m 
at 31 December 2015, principally as a result of 
the transfer of Kurt Salmon France’s scheme to 
liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2015, 
offset by an increase in the US obligation 
attributable to different actuarial assumptions 
being used to calculate the reduction in assets 
and liabilities following the 2015 lump 
sum settlement.
The Group actively manages the potential 
liabilities arising from these schemes, regularly 
reviewing performance in conjunction with 
qualified independent actuaries and making 
changes where appropriate. 
During 2015 the Group implemented a lump 
sum option for eligible members of the closed 
US defined benefit pension plan, as a result 
of which approximately £9.8m of actuarially 
determined obligations under the plan were 
settled in full, funded from the plan assets. 
The impact has been to significantly reduce 
the number of potential beneficiaries of the 
plan and to reduce the gross obligations 
under the plan to which the Group is 
ultimately exposed to £50.2m (2014: £60.6m). 
The assets of the plan reflected in the 
reported net obligation in the Group balance 
sheet at 31 December 2015 were £40.6m 
(2014: £52.3m), representing a funded level 
of 81% (2014: 86%). No employer cash 
contributions were made to the US defined 
benefit pension scheme during 2015 
(2014: £1.2m).
Provisions 
Long-term provisions have decreased by £3.7m 
from £4.9m at 31 December 2014 to £1.2m 
at 31 December 2015 due to movements in 
the Group’s property provisions. The movement 
principally comprises £2.4m of releases 
following lease reassignments in the UK and 
the US, plus a £1.0m utilisation and a £0.3m 
transfer to liabilities held for sale in respect 
of the Kurt Salmon France property provision.
Liquidity and capital resources
The Group’s capital structure is reviewed 
regularly to ensure that it remains relevant to 
the business and its planned development. 
At 31 December 2015 some 2.4 million shares 
purchased by the Company were held as treasury 
shares and were therefore excluded from the 
reported share capital in the Group balance 
sheet. A further 4.3 million shares were held 
by the trustees of the Management Consulting 
Group PLC employee benefit trusts. 
During 2015 the Company issued 2,026,976 
new ordinary shares in connection with the 
acquisition of Mobispoke, a small digital retail 
consulting business, by Kurt Salmon. 
At the General Meeting on 17 December 2015 
shareholders approved the issue of up to 
9 million new ordinary shares to satisfy vesting 
share awards to employees. In January and 
February 2016 the Company issued 6,032,661 
new ordinary shares to satisfy share awards 
which vested to employees of the Kurt Salmon 
businesses which formed part of the Disposal, 
which was completed on 7 January 2016. 
Net debt
The Group ended the year with reported net 
debt of £52.8m (excluding £5.3m of cash 
balances which remained in the businesses 
sold as part of the Disposal) compared with 
£41.7m at 30 June 2015 and £33.6m at the 
end of 2014. The year on year increase in net 
debt reflects weaker cash generation from 
operations in 2015, largely resulting from 
lower revenues and operating losses in 
Alexander Proudfoot.
During 2015 the Group was financed by a 
multi-currency borrowing facility negotiated 
in December 2011 for up to £85m. As a 
consequence of the Disposal completed on 
7 January 2016, the Group’s bank debt was 
repaid in full from the sale proceeds and this 
borrowing facility was terminated. The Group 
has a new working capital facility in place 
with HSBC which is a £15m multi-currency 
revolving credit facility with a maturity date 
of 31 March 2019. 
There are two financial covenants under the 
new working capital facility. The first of these 
is that interest cover must be greater than four 
times at the calculation dates. The second 
covenant is a leverage covenant, which is 
that net debt divided by adjusted EBITDA 
must remain below 2.5 times at the calculation 
dates. For covenant testing purposes, net debt 
is measured on the basis of average exchange 
rates over the relevant period, consistent 
with the measurement of adjusted EBITDA. 
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as underlying 
operating profit plus certain non-cash items 
such as depreciation and amortisation. 
Covenants will be calculated quarterly, 
starting on 30 June 2016.
Foreign exchange exposure
The Group’s foreign exchange exposure is 
primarily a translation risk as the majority of 
the Group’s business is transacted in Euros 
and US Dollars. The goodwill arising on 
acquisitions is also denominated in these 
currencies. Draw downs under the Group’s 
borrowing facility are made in US Dollars and 
Euros to provide a partial hedge against these. 
Treasury activities are managed on a day-to-day 
basis by a treasurer and finance staff, reporting 
to the Group Finance Director. 
There are established treasury policies that 
are reviewed regularly to ensure that they 
remain relevant to the business. The objective 
of these policies is to provide liquidity across 
the Group at minimum risk and cost and to 
hedge known financial exposures. The Group’s 
cash and net debt position is closely monitored 
and there are effective forecasting 
procedures in place.
27
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Financial review continued
Chris Povey
Cash flow
Cash generated in 2015 was lower than 
the previous year at £3.2m (2014: £10.7m), 
reflecting a £10.0m reduction in operating 
results net of a £2.0m increase in the inflow 
arising from working capital movements. 
Cash outflows related to capital expenditure 
were £1.0m (2014: £1.1m).
Dividend
The interim and final dividends for 2014 were 
paid during 2015 generating a cash outflow 
during the year of £4.0m. 
The Board announced on 23 November 2015 
that no interim dividend for 2015 would be paid 
in January 2016, given the likely accounting 
impact of the write off of goodwill on the 
Company’s distributable reserves as a result 
of the Disposal. The retained loss for the 
2015 financial year, including the loss on 
Disposal, has, as expected, had a significant 
adverse impact on the Company’s retained 
earnings, offset by the release of a merger 
reserve which was created in 2006 when 
the relevant businesses were acquired. 
Taking into account these and other items, 
the reported retained earnings of the 
Company at 31 December 2015 were 
negative £10.2m (2014: positive £23.2m). 
The Board has reviewed the position following 
the completion of the Disposal and during 
preparation of the financial statements for 
2015 and considers that it remains likely that 
it will seek to implement a reconstruction of 
reserves before dividend payments are resumed. 
The Board will consider the Company’s future 
dividend policy once this process is complete, 
and in light of the trading performance and 
financial position of the Group at that time.
Business resources and 
investment in the future
The Group’s key assets are its client relationships, 
its people and its intellectual property. 
Client relationships are strengthened by the 
regular review of every engagement in 
conjunction with the client throughout its 
duration. This enables timely resolution of 
any issues so that the client remains highly 
satisfied with our performance. It is our 
objective that every client becomes a reference 
for future clients. 
The Group seeks to promote employee retention 
and employee alignment with shareholder 
value creation using share awards. During 
2015 47 senior employees received awards 
over approximately 11.2 million shares in total, 
normally vesting over three years and conditional 
upon continued employment. At the 2015 
year end there were outstanding unvested 
awards in place over 26.4 million shares 
(2014: 35.5 million shares). A significant 
proportion of these awards related to employees 
in the discontinued operations. As a result, on 
completion of the Disposal in January 2016, 
awards over 5.8 million shares vested (and 
were satisfied in part by issuing new shares, 
as approved by shareholders at the general 
meeting on 17 December 2015), and awards 
over 4.1 million shares lapsed. As a consequence 
of the Disposal, in order to stabilise and motivate 
senior employees in the continuing operations 
of the Group, the Board has implemented 
a significant share-based retention plan 
focused on the retained Kurt Salmon business 
which has resulted, in January 2016, in the 
issue of further awards to employees over 
42.4 million shares, normally vesting after 
three years. The total number of outstanding 
unvested awards to employees which are 
subject only to retention criteria is currently 
approximately 58.6 million, of which 
3.5 million are due to vest in 2016 
(subject to continued employment). 
The remuneration policies of the Group are 
designed to motivate and retain key individuals 
by rewarding performance and deferring 
the payment of a portion of incentive pay 
contingent on continued employment. 
The performance of each employee is regularly 
reviewed and plans are established to deal 
with any performance issues. Evaluation 
systems are in place throughout the Group. 
The training requirements of employees are 
also reviewed and tailored training programmes 
have been established for each of the core 
functions. The headcount needs of the business 
are reviewed in view of the projected 
requirements of the business as indicated 
by the order book and prospects. 
The Group has developed knowledge 
management systems that capture the 
intellectual property that has been developed 
through many years of assisting clients. Client 
needs are regularly reviewed and new services 
developed in accordance with these. Appropriate 
steps are taken to safeguard the security of 
the Group’s intellectual property and legal 
or other action is taken as necessary to 
protect this. The Group continues to invest 
in its client relationships, its people and its 
intellectual property to ensure that the Group 
is prepared to face its challenges and to 
focus client awareness on the brands and 
the services offered.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group has operating and financial policies 
and procedures designed to maximise 
shareholder value within a defined risk 
management framework. The key risks to 
which the business is exposed are reviewed 
regularly by senior management and the 
Board. The major risks facing the business 
and the means by which they are mitigated 
and managed are set out on the Principal 
risks and uncertainties pages. The directors 
are not aware of any material outstanding 
litigation against the Group.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position, are 
set out in the Strategic Report. The financial 
position of the Group is described in this 
Financial Review. In addition, note 23 of the 
consolidated financial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital and its exposures to 
risk. The Group’s committed bank facilities 
are detailed under the “Liquidity and capital 
resources” section of this Financial Review. 
The Group prepares regular business forecasts 
and monitors its projected compliance with 
the bank facility covenants which are reviewed 
by the Board. Forecasts are adjusted for 
sensitivities, which address the principal risks 
to which the Group is exposed, and consideration 
is given to actions open to management to 
mitigate the impact of these sensitivities.
28
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report In particular this includes the discretionary 
nature of a significant amount of the costs 
incurred by the Group. The Board has concluded 
that the Group has adequate resources to be 
able to operate within the level of its current 
working capital facility and remain compliant 
with the terms of the facility for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the going concern 
basis has been adopted in preparing the 
financial statements. For further details 
please refer to note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators used by the 
Board to monitor progress are: revenue growth; 
underlying operating profit; underlying 
operating margin; net debt; and underlying 
earnings per share. These key performance 
indicators are used to monitor performance 
as they indicate achievement against the 
Group’s objectives of delivering shareholder 
value and profit and margin growth. In addition 
other measures are used at the level of 
divisional management, including order input, 
business unit performance, staff retention 
and client satisfaction, which the directors 
considered to fall within an acceptable range 
during the year.
Critical accounting policies
The discussion and analysis of the Group’s 
financial position and results are based 
on the consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). 
This preparation requires estimates and 
judgements that affect the reported level 
of assets and liabilities, revenues and costs, 
and the related disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements. Critical accounting 
policies are those that are reflective of 
significant judgements and uncertainties and 
potentially result in materially different results 
under different assumptions and conditions. 
The Board considers that the Group’s critical 
accounting policies are limited to those 
described below.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable 
for services provided to third parties in the 
normal course of business. Revenue from 
services is recognised when the service has 
been provided and the right to consideration 
earned. When a service has been provided to 
third parties but no billing made, the amount 
receivable is estimated. This estimate is 
based on the nature of the service supplied 
and the terms of the contract. Any significant 
underestimation or over-estimation of 
amounts receivable could have a material 
effect on the Group’s financial position and 
results of operations.
Goodwill and other 
intangible fixed assets
Under IFRS goodwill is capitalised and tested for 
impairment annually or when events or changes 
in circumstance indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are capitalised and amortised over 
their remaining useful economic lives.
Employee benefits
Accounting for pensions and other post-
retirement benefits involves judgement about 
uncertain events including discount rates, life 
expectancy, future pay inflation and expected 
healthcare trend rates. Determination of the 
projected benefit obligations for defined 
benefit pension schemes and post-retirement 
plans is relevant to the recorded amounts 
in the statement of recognised income and 
expense and the liability recorded in the 
balance sheet.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in 
numerous jurisdictions. There are transactions 
and calculations for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain until agreed with 
the tax authorities. Where the final outcome 
is different from the initial estimate, these 
adjustments will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period 
in which such determination is made.
Provisions
The Group has onerous property leases 
which require judgement in terms of the 
provision being carried on the balance sheet.
Discontinued operations 
and assets held for sale
The Disposal and the recognition of assets 
held for sale at the lower of cost and fair value 
less costs to sell required judgement to be 
applied to both post-completion consideration 
and goodwill allocated to the disposal group. 
Due to the timing of the Disposal, post-closing 
consideration had not been finalised at the 
signing date and therefore the loss on Disposal 
reflects a best estimate of final proceeds based 
on the information available at 21 March 2016. 
With regard to the allocation of goodwill, the 
disposal group identified on 31 December 2015 
represented only part of the Kurt Salmon 
consultancy division and therefore required 
Kurt Salmon goodwill to be partially allocated 
to the disposal group. As there is no prescribed 
allocation measures under IFRS, 2015 revenues 
have been used as an appropriate measure of 
relative value.
Summary of critical 
accounting policies
The Group’s management has discussed the 
development of the estimates and disclosures 
related to each of these matters with the Audit 
and Risk Committee. Additional discussion of 
the application of these estimates and other 
accounting policies is provided in note 2 to 
the consolidated financial statements.
Chris Povey
Finance Director
21 March 2016
29
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties
Identifying key areas 
  Read more about the Group’s 
governance and approach to risk 
management on pages 41 to 44
The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business models future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Risk management process
Identify
risk
Assess
Develop 
action plan 
to mitigate
Re-assess 
risk after 
mitigation
Report to 
the Board
MCG has a robust risk 
management process 
in place to identify and 
manage our key risks
Demand for 
services provided 
by the Group in 
the markets and 
sectors in which 
it operates
Retention and 
development of 
key client 
relationships
Recruitment 
and retention of 
talented employees
Optimisation 
of the Group’s 
intellectual capital
Fluctuations in 
foreign currency 
exchange rates
1
2
3
4
5
30
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report
Risk Changes in demand for MCG’s services can significantly 
impact revenues and profits. The Group’s businesses operate 
in a number of geographies and industry sectors and demand 
for their services can be affected by global, regional or national 
macro economic conditions and conditions within individual 
industry sectors. The Group’s businesses operate in a competitive 
environment, where other consulting firms seek to provide 
similar services to MCG’s clients.
Any failure by the Group to retain its existing client relationships 
could result in a significant reduction in the Group’s revenues. 
MCG’s businesses typically contract with clients for the delivery 
of project related consulting services over relatively short periods. 
Individual clients of the Group may change their preferred suppliers 
of the services that the Group’s businesses provide or may 
change the quantity of such services or the price at which they 
buy such services. Potential unforeseen contractual liabilities 
may arise from client engagements that are 
not completed satisfactorily.
The Group is dependent on the recruitment and retention 
of key personnel to develop and maintain relationships 
with clients and to deliver high quality services. Any failure 
to attract and retain such personnel which results in their 
unforeseen departure from the business may have detrimental 
consequences on the Group’s financial performance.
The intellectual capital of the Group’s businesses, including 
its methodologies and its track record of successful sale and 
delivery of assignments to clients, is a key asset which must 
be maintained, continually developed and protected, so that 
its offerings remain distinctive and attractive to clients. It is 
possible that employees who exit the business may appropriate 
this intellectual capital for use by themselves or by the 
Group’s competitors.
The Group reports its results and financial position in Pounds 
Sterling, but operates in and provides services to clients in 
many countries around the world, conducting most of its business 
in other currencies. In particular, a significant proportion of 
the Group’s business is conducted in US Dollars and Euros. 
Fluctuations in prevailing exchange rates may have a significant 
impact on reported revenues and profits.
The Group seeks to monitor demand for its services, to anticipate 
changes in demand and competitive pressures where possible, 
and to develop a strategy and offering to exploit opportunities for 
growth in geographies and sectors where demand is increasing. 
The diversity of MCG’s businesses provides some protection 
against adverse trends in individual sectors or geographies and the 
Group retains some flexibility (in Alexander Proudfoot in particular) 
in its ability to deploy staff to areas of higher demand to optimise 
utilisation. A significant proportion of the total remuneration paid 
to senior employees is in the form of variable pay related to 
financial performance, which provides some profit mitigation 
in the event of a decline in revenues.
MCG’s businesses have longstanding relationships with key 
clients. The Group’s business processes are designed to promote 
and enhance such relationships to generate revenues over much 
longer periods than those of a typical single project. This includes 
a focus on the delivery of high quality work that meets clients’ 
expectations and human resources management policies that 
emphasise the importance of maintaining and developing client 
relationships. Potential contractual liabilities arising from client 
engagements are managed through the control of contractual 
conditions and insurance arrangements.
The Group seeks to develop remuneration policies and 
structures that reward good performance and promote continued 
employment with the Group, consistent with prevailing market 
levels of remuneration. For senior employees a significant element 
of total remuneration is variable and linked to financial and other 
performance measures, which provides opportunities for enhanced 
rewards. Conditional share awards to staff are structured to include 
retention criteria and may also be linked to financial targets or 
share price performance over a period longer than one year.
The Group maintains a comprehensive knowledge management 
system to record its methodologies and track record of client 
assignments. It develops and refreshes these continually in 
response to, and in anticipation of, market demand. The Group 
protects its intellectual property through appropriate contractual 
arrangements with employees and others, and through legal 
action where necessary.
Where appropriate, the Group will undertake hedging to mitigate 
currency risk. This is rarely undertaken since the Group’s cost 
base is, in broad terms, located in those countries in which the 
Group generates revenues. The currencies in which costs and 
revenues are denominated are therefore, to a great extent, 
matched and this tends to reduce the impact of exchange 
rate fluctuations on reported profits.
Reducing 
We have continued to 
invest to develop new 
offerings and to build 
our intellectual capital 
in the digital space.
Level 
Staff retention has been 
managed effectively and 
we have recruited in 
areas of the business 
which are growing.
Reducing 
We retained our key 
client relationships 
and continued to 
work to develop new 
long-term relationships.
Level 
Currency volatility has 
not had a significant 
negative impact on 
reported revenues 
and operating results 
in 2015.
Level 
Market conditions in 2015 
varied between the key 
sectors and geographies 
in which we operate, 
in some cases showing 
positive trends, in 
others negative ones.
31
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report
Description Mitigation Change in level of risk 
from 2014 Viability statement
Stronger financial position
The Directors have assessed the Group’s 
prospects and viability, taking into account 
its current position and the principal risks to 
the business. The Directors consider three 
years to be a reasonable time horizon for 
the business and this is consistent with the 
period which has been used for strategic 
planning. The Group has recently completed 
the Disposal of the French and related 
operations of Kurt Salmon, which represented 
approximately 40% of total Group revenues 
in 2015. During 2016 the Board will review 
and revise the Group’s strategy for its 
continuing operations.
Following the Disposal the Group is now free 
of structural indebtedness and as a result is 
in a stronger financial position. There is a 
bank facility in place up to March 2019 which 
will enable the Group to manage its working 
capital position.
The global management consulting market in 
which the Group operates is well developed. 
The Group has two strong brands and an 
established and successful business model. 
The Board has in place a strategy and plan to 
restore revenue growth and profitability in the 
Alexander Proudfoot business. Kurt Salmon 
is profitable and is well placed to continue to 
develop successfully. 
The Board of MCG will continue to promote 
profitable growth in the Group’s operations 
and will remain alert to all opportunities to 
generate value from the Group’s portfolio 
of businesses. The Group will continue to 
consider opportunities to further invest in 
and grow the Group’s remaining businesses, 
or to seek value for shareholders through 
further Disposals should appropriate 
opportunities arise. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group can continue to operate and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
three-year period of their assessment.
32
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance Financials Strategic report
33
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s introduction
The Board remains committed to high 
standards of corporate governance. 
A revised version of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”) was 
released in September 2014 and this, 
together with The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013 (the Regulations) is the relevant 
legislation to which we adhere. The new 
requirements of the Code are reflected 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 
in the viability statement on page 32 
and in the assessment of risks and 
uncertainties on pages 30 to 31. 
Our Board is composed of directors from 
differing international backgrounds with a 
range of business experience. During 2015 
the Board members continued to bring a 
wide range of experience and knowledge to 
bear in developing strategy and challenging 
management and were closely involved 
in the oversight of the disposal of part 
of Kurt Salmon which was approved by 
shareholders at the General Meeting on 
17 December 2015 and completed in early 
2016. Following the General Meeting, 
Chiheb Mahjoub an executive director, left 
the Board and the Group and Andrew Simon, 
a long serving independent non-executive 
Director, stepped down and was replaced by 
a new independent non-executive Director, 
Nigel Halkes, who has since taken over 
Andrew’s role as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and who reports for the first time 
on page 46. Nigel was appointed following 
a rigorous process using external search 
agents and we welcome him to the Board.
As to the operation of the Board, we recognise 
the importance of the Board meeting the 
divisional management: senior managers are 
invited to a number of the Board meetings 
held in the year and the Board holds certain 
of its meetings at its main business locations 
abroad, giving the Board the opportunity to 
meet local management.
It was originally envisaged that I would stand 
down from your Board at the end of 2015. 
However, the Board has asked me to remain 
as Chairman and we have agreed that, subject 
to re-election at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, I will continue until my retirement 
in 2017.
One of our independent non-executive 
Directors, Steve Ferriss, completed ten years 
of service to the Board in March 2016 and, 
whilst the Board still considers him independent, 
Steve will not be seeking re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has considered carefully the 
requirements of Section 1 of the Code and 
the Board considers the Company has complied 
with the Code throughout the year.
Alan Barber 
Chairman
21 March 2016
“As a global business working in a number of industries and countries, 
the Group’s governance structures are designed to be effective 
wherever we have operations.”
Alan Barber Chairman Governance
34
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Board of Directors
A strong leadership team
 M Capello 
 Non-executive Director   
Term of office: Marco Capello, aged 55, joined the 
Board on 18 June 2010.
Background and experience: Marco is the founder 
and managing partner of BlueGem Capital Partners LLP . 
From 2002 to 2006 he was a managing director of 
Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity. Previously he worked 
for over 18 years at First Boston, Wasserstein Perella 
and, since 1994, Merrill Lynch. During his career in 
investment banking he worked primarily in mergers 
and acquisitions both in New York and London. 
Mr Capello holds an MBA from Columbia University 
in New York. He graduated in civil engineering from 
the Politecnico di Torino. 
External appointments: He is a board member of 
Olicar S.p.A., The Private Clinic Limited, Fintyre S.p.A., 
Neomobile S.p.A, Liberty Ltd, Enotria Ltd and 
Mamas & Papas Ltd.
 S A Ferriss  
 Non-executive Director  
Term of office: Stephen Ferriss, aged 70, joined the 
Board on 3 March 2006.
Background and experience: Steve spent 17 years 
at Bank of America working in the US and latterly in 
London and Madrid. In 1987 he joined Bankers Trust 
and served in various roles including managing director 
and partner of the Bankers Trust’s Global Investment 
Bank in London and New York. He spent three years 
from 1999 to 2002 as president and chief executive 
of Santander Central Hispano Investment Securities 
Inc. He is a US citizen and resides in the US.
External appointments: He is a non-executive director 
of Santander Holdings USA, Inc., Santander Consumer 
USA Holdings Inc and chairman of Banco Santander 
Puerto Rico and Santander Bancorp in Puerto Rico.
 N L Halkes 
 Non-executive Director
Term of office: Nigel Halkes, aged 60, joined the 
Board on 18 December 2015.
Background and experience: Nigel qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant at Ernst & Young LLP 
and was a partner in its London office until 2013. 
He was Managing Partner for EY’s UK and Irish 
markets from 2010 to 2013. He studied economics 
at Bristol University.
External appointments: He is a non-executive 
director of Hargreaves Services plc and a Board 
member of Visit England. He is also a director 
of two charities: the EY Foundation and The Polka 
Children’ s Theatre.
 E Di Spiezio Sardo 
 Non-executive Director
Term of office: Emilio Di Spiezio Sardo, aged 39, 
joined the Board on 18 June 2010.
Background and experience: Emilio is a partner of 
BlueGem Capital Partners LLP . Before joining BlueGem 
as a partner in 2007 , he worked in London as a hedge 
fund manager at York Capital Management, a global 
multi-strategy hedge fund with approximately US$10bn 
under management at the time. Before that he 
worked in investment banking at Merrill Lynch in 
London and Rome. Mr Di Spiezio Sardo graduated 
summa cum laude in economics and finance from 
Bocconi University in Milan.
External appointments: He is a board member of 
Olicar S.p.A., The Private Clinic Limited, Fintyre S.p.A., 
Neomobile S.p.A., Liberty Ltd, Enotria Ltd and 
Mamas & Papas Ltd.
 J D Waldron 
 Non-executive Director
Term of office: Julian Waldron, aged 51, joined the 
Board on 8 October 2008.
Background and experience: Julian is currently 
chief financial officer of Technip, a French listed 
group providing project management, engineering 
and construction services for the oil and gas industry, 
which he joined in October 2008. Prior to this he 
was a managing director in corporate finance at UBS 
Warburg and the chief financial officer of Thomson SA. 
He is a UK citizen residing in France.
External appointments: Chief financial officer 
of Technip and board member of various 
Technip companies.
 C W Ansley 
 Company Secretary
Term of office: Charles Ansley, aged 65, was 
appointed Company Secretary in April 2007 , 
having joined the Group in 2001 . 
Background and experience: Charles graduated in 
law at the University of Sheffield and subsequently 
worked in the London office of KPMG. He is a 
qualified Chartered Accountant.
External appointments: None.
 A J Barber 
 Chairman  
Term of office: Alan Barber, aged 68, joined the 
Board in April 2005 as a non-executive director 
and was appointed Executive Chairman on 
19 February 2008. He relinquished his executive 
duties on 31 December 2010. 
Background and experience: Alan qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant and was a partner in KPMG’s 
London office until 2004. He has several non-executive 
directorships and is a former non-executive director 
of lastminute.com PLC and Teather & Greenwood 
Holdings PLC.
External appointments: He is a non-executive director 
of JP Morgan Japanese Investment Trust PLC.
 N S Stagg 
 Chief Executive
Term of office: Nicholas Stagg, aged 56, was 
appointed Executive Director on 21 October 2009 
and Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2010.
Background and experience: Nick graduated in Physics 
at University College, London and joined Thomson 
McLintock in 1981, where he qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant. He worked in property investment 
companies before becoming group managing director of 
Lambert Smith Hampton PLC. Subsequently he was 
managing director of W S Atkins International PLC and 
then first COO and then CEO of T eather & Greenwood 
Holdings PLC, where he was responsible for the 
development of the business and its eventual sale to 
Landsbanki in 2005 and then Straumur in 2008.
External appointments: Nick is a director 
of Shinetrip Ltd and a non-executive board 
member of Wedlake Bell LLP .
 C J Povey 
 Finance Director
Term of office: Chris Povey, aged 55, was 
appointed Finance Director on 31 October 2010.
Background and experience: Chris graduated in 
History from Brasenose College, University of Oxford, 
in 1982 and joined KPMG where he had a career of over 
20 years, first qualifying as a Chartered Accountant 
and subsequently in the unit providing transaction 
support services to clients. He joined Management 
Consulting Group PLC in 2005 and was the Group’s 
Head of Corporate Finance prior to being appointed 
Finance Director.
External appointments: None.
1
5
9
3
4
7 8
2
R / N / AR/ S
R / N / AR
 N
R / N R / N / AR
6 Governance Financials Strategic report
35
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Committee key
R / Remuneration Committee
N / Nominations Committee
AR / Audit and Risk Committee
S / Senior Independent Director
 Committee Chairman indicated in bold
2 1
3 4
7
5
9
8
6 Governance
36
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate governance report
A strong governance framework
The Group operates in a number of countries and accordingly has 
a strong governance framework within which the component parts 
of the business operate.
Responsibilities across the governance framework
The executive management 
operates under authority 
matrices agreed by the 
MCG Board.
 
Executive management 
everyday management of our business and operations, 
and responsibility for monitoring detailed performance 
of all aspects of our business
Group executive management is responsible for the overall day-to-day management of the 
business. The two divisions each have their own leadership and management structures 
functioning within clearly established procedures and authority limits set by the Board.
The Board is collectively 
responsible for the success 
of the Company.
The Board is responsible for 
the overall management of our organisation 
and our business
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. It sets the Group’s strategic aims, ensures that 
necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, sets the Group’s 
values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The Board has three Committees 
each dealing with a specific 
aspect of governance.
Board Committees 
Specific review and oversight Committees
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee 
oversees the Group’s financial 
reporting and internal controls 
and provides the link between 
the Board and the external and 
internal auditors.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee’s 
purpose is to consider future 
appointments to the Board and 
the succession policy for key 
management positions.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
has responsibility for setting the 
framework for the remuneration 
of the Chairman, executive 
directors and other senior 
executives in the Group and 
the remuneration packages 
of those individuals.
Read the Audit and Risk 
Committee Report on p41
Read about the Nominations 
Committee on p45
Read the Remuneration 
Committee Report on p46 Governance Financials Strategic report
37
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Board of Directors
The Board is collectively responsible to our 
shareholders for the success of the Company. 
From 1 January 2015 until 18 December 2015 
the Board comprised the non-executive 
Chairman, three executive directors and five 
non-executive directors. On 18 December 2015 
Chiheb Mahjoub stood down as an executive 
director, Andrew Simon stood down as a 
non-executive director and Nigel Halkes 
was appointed as a non-executive director. 
Thus from 18 December 2015 until the year 
end the Board comprised the non-executive 
Chairman, two executive directors and five 
non-executive directors. The Code requires 
that smaller companies should have at least 
two independent non-executive directors 
and the Company complied with this aspect. 
The Company also complied with the 
requirement to separate the roles of 
Chairman and Chief Executive.
Mr Ferriss, Mr Simon, Mr Waldron and 
Mr Halkes were considered to be independent 
non-executive directors throughout their period 
on the Board in 2015. Mr Ferriss has passed 
the tenth anniversary of his appointment on 
the Board. The Board has specifically considered 
whether he remains independent in accordance 
with guidance in the Code. Mr Ferriss has 
maintained a range of other unrelated business 
interests and the Board has determined that 
he remains independent in character and 
judgement and there are no other relationships 
or circumstances which are likely to affect 
or could appear to affect his judgement.
The roles of the Board and management are 
clearly defined. Throughout the year, the 
roles of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior 
Independent Director were separated and clearly 
defined in writing. The terms and conditions 
of appointment of the non-executive directors 
are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office and will also be available at 
the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is satisfied that each of the 
non-executive directors committed sufficient 
time during 2015 for the fulfilment of their 
duties as directors of the Company. None of 
the non-executive directors has any conflict 
of interest which has not been disclosed 
to the Board.
During and at the end of the financial year no 
director had a material interest in any contract 
of significance to which the Company or any 
subsidiary was a party. Information on the 
directors’ interests in the shares of the 
Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. Related party 
transactions are disclosed in note 25.
Election and re-election 
of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association contain 
detailed rules for the appointment and retirement 
of directors. There is a formal procedure in place 
to select and appoint new directors to the 
Board. These directors are required to retire 
at the next Annual General Meeting, but can 
offer themselves for re-election by shareholders. 
Under the Articles, all directors are required 
to submit themselves for re-election at intervals 
not exceeding three years. However, the 
Board agreed that, with effect from the 2011 
Annual General Meeting, directors should 
stand for re-election every year.
On appointment, directors are provided 
with formal details of their responsibilities 
under legislation applicable to a company 
listed in the UK. Changes to such legislation 
and other relevant factors affecting the Group 
are communicated to all directors. Newly 
appointed directors are also required to 
participate in an induction programme in 
order to familiarise themselves with the Group’s 
businesses. Regular presentations are made 
to the Board by senior management in order 
to refresh and expand this knowledge.
Balance of executive and  
non-executive directors at year end
Board
meetings
Audit and Risk
Committee
meeting s *
Remuneration 
Committee
meeting s *
Nominations
Committee
meeting s *
A J Barber 9 — — 2
M Capello 9 — 4 2
S A Ferriss 9 6 4 2
N L Halkes (appointed 18 December 2015) — — — —
C Mahjoub (stood down 18 December 2015) 9 — — —
C J Povey 9 — — —
E Di Spiezio Sardo 9 — — —
A H Simon OBE 
(stood down 18 December 2015) 8 6 3 1
N S Stagg 9 — — —
J D Waldron 9 6 4 2
Total meetings held 9 6 4 2
* For the Committee meetings attendance shown is that of the respective Committee members.
Board and Committee attendance 2015
 Chairman (non-executive) 1
 Executive 2
 Non-executive 5 Governance
38
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate governance report continued
A strong governance framework
Election and re-election 
of directors continued
The Board annually evaluates the performance 
of individual directors, the Board as a whole 
and its Committees. This review comprises 
the completion of structured questionnaires 
by each director and follow up interviews 
carried out by the Company Secretary. 
The results of this process are presented to 
the Board and via individual discussions with 
the Chairman. The results of the evaluation 
were approved by the Chairman and an 
agreed plan of action produced. The results 
are specifically taken into account when 
considering the reappointment of directors.
All directors are authorised to obtain, at 
the Company’s expense and subject to the 
Chairman’s approval, independent legal 
or other professional advice where they 
consider it necessary. All directors have 
access to the Company Secretary who 
oversees their ongoing training and 
development needs.
Operation of the Board
The Board meets regularly. There is a core 
of six meetings each year with further ad hoc 
meetings scheduled when necessary. 
Nine meetings were held during 2015. 
All members of the Board are supplied, 
in advance of meetings, with appropriate 
information covering matters which are to 
be considered. During the year the Chairman 
met the non-executive directors in the 
absence of the executive directors.
There is a formal schedule of decisions reserved 
for the Board. This includes approval of the 
following: the Group’s strategy; the annual 
operating plan and budget; the annual and 
interim financial statements; significant 
transactions; major capital expenditures; risk 
management policies; the authority levels 
vested in management; Board appointments; 
and remuneration policies. The review of 
certain matters is delegated to Board 
Committees, which make recommendations 
to the Board in relation to those matters.
The number of Board and Committee 
meetings eligible for attendance and 
attended by each of the directors during the 
year are in the table on the previous page.
Financial matters
The Group has adopted a code of ethical 
conduct applicable to the Board and all 
members of the finance function. In addition, 
it has a whistleblowing policy whereby 
procedures exist that allow employees to 
report any financial wrongdoing that they 
believe may have occurred.
The Board has also defined which services 
can be purchased from the Group’s auditor 
and has adopted procedures in respect of the 
purchase of these services to minimise the 
risk of an actual or perceived conflict 
of interest.
Relations with investors and 
the Annual General Meeting
Registered shareholders are sent copies 
of both the annual report and accounts and 
the half-year report. The Group’s website, 
www.mcgplc.com, also contains information 
relevant to investors.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the 
Finance Director met, and are available 
to meet, key shareholders throughout the 
year and in particular around the time of the 
full-year results and the half-year results.
The notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 20 June 2016 is contained 
in the circular to shareholders. To ensure our 
shareholders have time to consider our annual 
report and accounts and Notice of the AGM 
and lodge their proxy votes, the documents 
are made available more than 20 working days 
prior to the meeting. We offer all shareholders 
the choice of submitting proxy votes either 
electronically or in paper format. 
Visit the investor relations website for more 
information: www.mcgplc.com/investors.
Internal controls
The Company, as required by the Listing Rules, 
has complied with the Code provisions on 
internal control having established the 
procedures necessary to implement the revised 
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control issued 
in October 2005 (“the Turnbull Committee 
Report”) and by reporting in accordance 
with that guidance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Company’s system of internal control and 
reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of 
management is to implement Board policies 
on risk and control. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. In pursuing these objectives, 
internal controls can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. There is a continuous 
process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the 
Company which is in accordance with the 
guidance set out in the Turnbull Committee 
Report and has been in place for the year 
under review and up to the date of approval 
of the annual report and accounts.
This process, which is regularly reviewed 
by the Board, is as follows:
 – the Group’s management operates a robust 
risk management process which identifies 
the key risks facing the business and reports 
to the Audit and Risk Committee and the 
Board on how those risks are being managed. 
This is based on a risk register produced 
by executive management which identifies 
those key risks, the probability of those 
risks occurring, their impact if they do 
occur and the actions being taken to 
manage those risks to the desired level. 
This risk register is discussed at the Audit 
and Risk Committee and Board meetings 
on a regular basis and regular monitoring 
reports are presented to the Board. The 
management of these risks is monitored 
by the internal audit function;
 – large acquisitions and capital projects 
require Board approval; and 
 – there is regular communication between 
management and the Board on matters 
relating to risk and control. Governance Financials Strategic report
39
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
The Board has established a strong control 
framework within which the Group operates. 
This contains the following key elements:
 – organisational structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility, delegation of authority 
and reporting requirements;
 – defined expenditure and contract 
authorisation levels;
 – on-site, video and teleconferencing reviews 
of operations, covering all aspects of each 
business, are conducted by Group executive 
management on a regular basis throughout 
the year;
 – the financial reporting and information 
systems which comprise a comprehensive 
annual budget which is approved by the 
Board; weekly reports of key operating 
information; cash flow and capital 
expenditure reporting; monthly results; 
and forward performance indicators which 
are measured against the annual budget 
and the prior year’s results. Significant 
variances are reviewed by the Board and 
executive management and action is taken 
as appropriate. The forecast for the year 
is revised when necessary;
 – Group tax and treasury functions are 
coordinated centrally. There is weekly 
cash and treasury reporting to Group 
management and periodic reporting to 
the Board on the Group’s tax and treasury 
positions; and
 – internal audits are performed by Group’s 
internal audit function.
During the course of its review of the system 
of internal control, the Board has not identified 
nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses 
which it deemed to be significant. Therefore 
a confirmation in respect of necessary 
actions has not been deemed appropriate.
The Annual General Meeting gives all 
shareholders the opportunity to communicate 
directly with the Board. 
 – During the year, the directors are available 
to respond to enquiries from investors on 
the Group’s operations. 
 – Effective communication with fund managers, 
institutional investors and analysts is actively 
pursued and this encompasses issues 
such as performance, policy and strategy.
During the year, the executive directors hold 
discussions with major shareholders. 
 – The Chairman is available to shareholders if 
there are matters that they wish to discuss 
with him directly. 
 – Announcements are made to the London 
Stock Exchange and the business media 
concerning trading and business 
developments to provide wider 
dissemination of information.  Governance
40
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
The directors present their annual report, 
incorporating their reports on corporate 
governance, audit and risk, and remuneration, 
together with the audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. These 
will be laid before the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting on 20 June 2016.
Activity
The principal activity of the Group is the 
provision of professional services. Details of 
the Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings, 
through which it carries out its activities, are 
set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
Group results
The Group’s loss before taxation from 
continuing operations for the year ended 
31 December 2015 amounted to £3,722,000 
(2014: profit £2,794,000).
Dividends
The directors do not recommend the payment 
of a dividend for 2015 (2014: interim dividend 
of 0.23p; final dividend of 0.595p).
Capital structure
Information on the Group’s capital structure 
and its share schemes is set out in note 19.
Under the agreement governing the Group’s 
£15m multi-currency working capital facility, 
on a change of control, the Company would 
need to renegotiate regarding whether the 
facility should be cancelled. There are also 
other agreements that may alter or terminate 
upon a change of control event.
Political contributions
No political donations were made in 
2015 or 2014.
Charitable donations
Charitable donations of £290,000 were 
made during the year (2014: £354,000).
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30 am on 20 June 2016 at the offices of 
Baker & McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA. Details of the meeting 
are included in the circular to shareholders enclosed with this report, at the back of which 
is the Notice of Meeting.
Substantial share interests
As at 18 March 2016 (the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report), the Company 
had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, of the following interests in the voting rights in the Company’s 
issued share capital.
Number of 
voting rights
% of issued
share capital
BlueGem LP 124,629,895 24.61 
Henderson Global Investors 114,129,549 22.53
Aberforth Partners LLP 24,844,660 4.91
Richard Griffiths 21,465,542 4.24
Norges Bank 18,696,236 3.69
By order of the Board
Charles Ansley Registered office
Company Secretary 10 Fleet Place
21 March 2016 London EC4M 7RB
Other disclosures Governance Financials Strategic report
41
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee oversees the Group’s financial reporting 
and internal controls and provides the link between the Board and the 
external and internal auditors.
Julian Waldron 
Chairman of the  
Audit and Risk Committee
Membership
The membership of the Committee 
from 1 January 2015 was:
Mr Julian Waldron
(Chairman, member since 2008)
Mr Stephen Ferriss
(Member since 2006)
Mr Andrew Simon
(Member until 18 December 2015, 
member since 2008)
Mr Nigel Halkes
(Member since 10 February 2016)
This report describes the membership and 
operation of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Structure
The Code recommends that the Committee 
should comprise at least two members and 
that all members should be independent 
non-executive directors. The Committee 
comprised three independent non-executive 
directors from 1 January 2015 to date except 
for the period between Mr Simon leaving 
the Committee on 18 December 2015 and 
Mr Halkes’ appointment on 10 February 2016 
during which it comprised two independent 
non-executive directors.
The Code provides that at least one member 
of the Committee should have recent and 
relevant financial experience. Mr Ferriss is 
a banker, Mr Waldron is the chief financial 
officer of a French listed company and 
Mr Halkes is a former managing partner at a 
large accounting firm and all are considered 
to have such experience. The profiles and 
qualifications of the Committee members 
are shown on page 34. The Chairman, 
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group 
Head of Finance, Internal Auditor, other 
financial managers and external auditors are 
invited to attend Audit Committee meetings. 
The Committee met six times during the 
year. The external auditor attended all of the 
meetings and the Committee met privately 
with it on one occasion. 
The Chairman of the Committee reported 
to the Board on the Committee’s activities 
after each meeting, identifying relevant 
matters requiring communication to the 
Board and recommendations on the steps 
to be taken.
 Chairman (non-executive) 1
 Non-executive 2
 Attended  Did not attend
Composition of the Audit 
and Risk Committee
J D Waldron (Chairman) 
S A Ferriss 
A H Simon 
T otal meetings held 
Attendance of the Committee
Committee attendance 2015
Audit and Risk
 Committee
 meetings Governance
42
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
The performance of the Committee 
was considered as part of the Board 
performance evaluation process and it was 
considered to operate effectively. In addition, 
the Committee members complete a detailed 
self-assessment as an aid to maintaining the 
Committee’s effectiveness.
The Committee’s terms of reference 
were reviewed and updated with effect 
from 3 March 2015 to conform with current 
best practice and the revised guidance from 
the Financial Reporting Council on audit 
committees. The have been reviewed since 
and no change is deemed necessary. 
They are available on the Group’s website 
(www.mcgplc.com) as well as in hard copy 
format from the Company Secretary.
Operation of the Committee
The Committee works with a structured 
annual agenda of matters tied in to the key 
events in the Company’s financial reporting 
cycle, together with various standing items 
the Committee is required to consider.
The Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities during the year as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee reviewed the interim financial 
statements and the annual report and accounts. 
Following discussion with both management 
and the external auditor, the Committee’s 
determination of the key risks of misstatement 
for 2015 and the steps it took to address 
these are shown in the table below.
Role of the Committee
The role of the Committee is, in summary:
1 to monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company and any 
formal announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance, 
reviewing significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them;
2 to assist the Board in ensuring 
the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy;
3 to review the Group’s internal 
financial controls and to review 
the Group’s internal control and 
risk management systems;
4 to monitor and review the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal audit function;
5 to make recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the 
external auditor and to approve the 
remuneration and terms of engagement 
of the external auditor;
6 to review and monitor the external 
auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit 
process; and
7 to develop and implement the policy 
on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services, 
and to report to the Board, identifying 
any matters in respect of which it 
considers that action or improvement 
is needed and recommending the 
steps to be taken.
Key risks
How the Committee 
addressed the risk
 The assessment of the carrying value 
of goodwill due to the significance of the 
goodwill asset on the balance sheet.
The Committee reviewed the carrying 
value of goodwill at the year end, considering 
a goodwill impairment review report from 
management which set out the key assumptions 
and judgements underlying the review, including 
those on financial projections and discount 
rates, and also included a sensitivity analysis. 
The Committee also considered the procedural 
controls surrounding the production of the 
financial projections.
The recognition and recoverability 
of deferred tax assets, in particular 
those in overseas jurisdictions.
The Committee reviewed a report setting 
out details of the deferred tax assets at the 
year end, including the underlying geographical 
analysis of tax losses, and considered the 
recoverability of the assets concerned 
alongside the other tax attributes and risks 
within the Group.
Revenue recognition, including the 
valuation of revenue, and debtor and 
accrued income exposure due to the risk 
on the timing of revenue recognition on 
contracts which span the year end.
The Committee considered the accounting 
policy for revenue recognition and the 
adequacy of the controls in place to ensure 
contractual terms are appropriate in the 
divisions’ accounting systems, and controls 
ensure the appropriate recognition of revenue 
arising therefrom.
The accounting for the disposal of 
the French and related operations 
of Kurt Salmon.
The Committee reviewed and considered the 
accounting treatment for the disposal and the 
disclosure of the disposal in the annual report 
and accounts. Governance Financials Strategic report
43
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
The Committee also discussed these 
matters with the external auditor regarding 
the nature and extent of their audit procedures 
in these areas.
Presentations were made by management 
and the external auditor about the key technical 
and judgemental matters relevant to the 
financial statements. The Committee was 
satisfied that it was appropriate for the Board 
to approve the financial statements.
Internal financial control 
and risk management systems
The Committee reviewed the register 
of Group risks prepared by management, 
recommendations made by the external auditor 
and internal audit reports. The Committee 
was satisfied that it was appropriate for the 
Board to make the statements regarding 
internal controls included in the Corporate 
Governance Statement.
Internal audit function
The Internal Auditor reports to the Committee, 
which reviews and approves the internal audit 
work programme. The internal audit function 
also assists executive management on 
special projects.
External auditor
The Committee oversees the relationship 
with the external auditor and ensures that the 
external auditor continues to be independent, 
objective and effective in its work, as well as 
considering the reappointment of the auditor 
each year in light of this.
Independence
The Committee undertakes a structured annual 
review of the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditor and, with the external 
auditor, has in place procedures to ensure this 
is not compromised. The procedures include:
 – Audit partner rotation – The Committee 
consider this is a key control in ensuring 
continued independence and objectivity by 
reducing the risk of familiarity. The current 
audit partner was appointed with effect 
from the audit of the 2012 annual report 
and accounts.
 – Restrictions on the nature and amount 
of non-audit work – In accordance with 
the Code, the Committee has established 
policies that the auditor shall not provide any 
services that would potentially result in them 
auditing the result of their own work and 
procedures to ensure compliance with the 
policies. The Committee reviews annually 
its policy and procedures on this area to 
ensure they remain appropriate in the 
context of regulatory changes and changes 
in the nature of the Group’s activities. 
Under the procedures in force in the year, 
the Committee pre-approves any permitted 
non-audit engagements with fees of more 
than £25,000 or which would cause the 
cumulative fees of such engagements 
for the year to exceed £100,000. At each 
Committee meeting a report is presented 
on non-audit activities and fees payable 
to the external auditor in order to ensure 
that the non-audit work is appropriate and 
relationship between non-audit fees and 
audit fees is not inappropriate.
 – The relationship of the auditor with senior 
management – The Committee reviews 
the relationship to ensure it has not 
become compromised due to familiarity 
or other factors.
The Committee has considered the 
independence of the external auditor 
and is satisfied that independence has been 
maintained and Deloitte LLP has formally 
confirmed its continuing independence 
to the Committee.
Audit effectiveness
The Committee reviews the external 
audit plan proposed by the auditor and 
participated in the review of the quality of the 
service that they provided. The Committee’s 
consideration includes:
 – a review of the external audit plan;
 – the auditor’s assessment of Group 
accounting and business risks;
 – the auditor’s own quality control procedure;
 – the auditor’s assessment of the key risks 
of misstatement;
 – consideration of the audit strategy 
and its communication;
 – whether the staffing of the external audit 
has continuity whilst maintaining 
independence; and
 – communication of the findings to the 
Committee and the quality and key 
features of its work. Governance
44
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued
Operation of the Committee 
continued
External auditor continued
Audit tendering
The Audit Committee has noted the Code 
and related guidance regarding the tendering 
of external audit contracts at least every ten 
years. As the Company is not in the FTSE 350, 
the process is not mandatory. However, 
the Committee is mindful that the current 
external auditor was appointed in 2001 and 
will continue to give consideration to the 
timing of a formal tender in the light of the 
regulatory regime, its assessment of the 
independence of the current auditor and 
any future changes in regulations.
Reappointment
There are no contractual obligations that act 
to restrict the Committee’s choice of external 
auditor. As a consequence of its satisfaction 
with the results of the procedures outlined 
above, the Committee has recommended to the 
Board that the external auditor be reappointed. 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue in office as auditor and a resolution 
to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Auditor and disclosure 
of information to auditor
Each director who held office at the date 
of approval of this annual report and accounts 
confirms that, so far as the director is aware:
 – there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 – the director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Julian Waldron
Chairman of the Audit 
and Risk Committee
21 March 2016 Governance Financials Strategic report
45
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Structure
The Code recommends that a majority of 
the members of the Nominations Committee 
should be independent non-executive directors. 
The majority of the Committee was 
independent throughout 2015.
The Nominations Committee adopted 
formal terms of reference dated 14 March 2003. 
These were updated on 2 March 2007 and 
are available from the Group’s website 
(www.mcgplc.com) or the Company 
Secretary upon request.
Activities
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis 
as required. The Committee has ongoing 
succession plans particularly in respect 
of non-executive directors approaching 
retirement due to their length of service. 
The Committee identified the skill sets needed 
for new non-executive directors, and instructed 
a search agency, Egon Zehnder, to identify 
suitable candidates. Egon Zehnder have no 
other connection with the Company. 
Following interviews with suitably qualified 
candidates Mr Nigel Halkes was appointed 
to the Board on 18 December 2015.
Stephen Ferriss 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
21 March 2016
The Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee’s purpose is to consider 
future appointments to the Board and the succession policy 
for key management positions.
Mr Stephen Ferriss
Chairman of the  
Nominations Committee
Membership
From 1 January 2015 the membership 
of the Committee was:
Mr Stephen Ferriss
(Chairman, member since 2008)
Mr Alan Barber
(Member since 2005)
Mr Marco Capello
(Member since 2010)
Mr Andrew Simon
(Member until 18 December 2015, 
member since 2006)
Mr Julian Waldron
(Member since 2009)
Mr Nigel Halkes
(Member since 10 February 2016)
 Chairman (non-executive) 1
 Non-executive 4
Composition of the 
Nominations Committee
 Attended  Did not attend
S A Ferriss (Chairman) 
A J Barber 
M Capello 
A H Simon 
J D Waldron 
T otal meetings held 
Attendance of the Committee
Committee attendance 2015
Nominations
 Committee
 meetings Governance
46
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to be writing to you as the new 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
First of all I would like to thank Andrew Simon 
for his hard work in Chairing the Remuneration 
Committee over a number of years and over the 
period leading to the successful disposal of 
parts of the Kurt Salmon business. 
Although my tenure as Committee Chair 
started after the 2015 Financial Year I have 
set out below the activities of the Committee 
during the year and provided an overview of 
our business performance and the linkage to 
our executives’ remuneration outcomes for 
the year under review. 
There will not be a shareholder vote on policy 
at the 2016 AGM but our Remuneration Policy 
has been included in this report to assist 
shareholders in reviewing the Company’s 
implementation of its policy during 2015. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which 
describes the implementation of the policy 
during the year, will again be subject to an 
advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
During 2015 the Remuneration Committee 
dealt with some specific remuneration 
matters in addition to its normal annual 
timetable. As you will have read in the 
Chairman’s Statement the disposal of the 
French and related operations of Kurt Salmon 
delivered important benefits to the Group. 
The Committee agreed that it was important 
to acknowledge the performance of the 
management team in implementing this 
disposal. Bonus payments for such matters 
are outside our shareholder approved policy 
and this bonus arrangement was subject to 
specific shareholder approval via a separate 
resolution at the General Meeting approving 
the main transaction. I am pleased to report 
it received strong shareholder support. 
Linked to the sale of parts of Kurt Salmon 
it was necessary for the Committee to deal 
with the terms of cessation of employment 
for Mr Mahjoub. Mr Mahjoub’s cessation 
arrangements are in accordance with our 
shareholder approved remuneration 
policy and are set out in the report. In agreeing 
these arrangements careful attention was 
paid to the Company’s obligations under 
French law and the Committee took legal 
advice to ensure that the settlement agreed 
with Mr Mahjoub was not only fair and 
reasonable to all parties but no more than 
necessary in the circumstances.
Due to disappointing financial performance 
during the year the financial measures for 
the 2015 annual bonus have not been met. 
The Committee has decided that, given the 
quantum of the bonuses payable on the 
disposal of parts of Kurt Salmon, no bonus 
will be payable for 2015 in relation to 
non-financial strategic objectives.
Two tranches of performance share awards 
were granted in 2012 (one in respect of the 
2011 Financial Year and one in respect of the 
2012 Financial Year). The performance periods 
for both of these awards ended in the 2015 
financial year end and the Total Shareholder 
Return targets were not met. These awards 
therefore lapsed. The performance share awards 
granted in 2013 have lapsed since the 2015 
financial year end and there are consequently 
no outstanding awards. 
At our 2017 AGM the Company will be required 
by the regulations to seek shareholders’ approval 
for the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. I will 
be working with the rest of the Committee 
to review our current policy and to consider 
changes that are required to that policy to 
ensure that it is aligned to and supports our 
business strategy going forward. 
I will be happy to engage with you if there are 
any matters set out in the report which you 
would like to discuss. 
Nigel Halkes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 March 2016
Nigel Halkes
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Membership
From 1 January 2015 the membership 
of the Committee was:
Mr Nigel Halkes
(Chairman and member 
since 10 February 2016)
Mr Andrew Simon
(Chairman and member until 
18 December 2015, member since 2006)
Mr Marco Capello
(Member since 2010)
Mr Stephen Ferriss
(Member since 2008)
Mr Julian Waldron
(Member since 2008)
Chairman’s summary statement Governance Financials Strategic report
47
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Structure
The Code recommends that the 
Committee should comprise at least 
two independent non-executive directors. 
The Committee comprised three independent 
and one non-independent non-executive 
directors from 1 January 2015 to date except 
for the period between Mr Simon leaving 
the Committee on 18 December 2015 and 
Mr Halkes’ appointment on 10 February 2016 
during which it comprised two independent and 
one non-independent non-executive directors 
The terms of reference for the Committee were 
last updated in December 2010. They were last 
reviewed in 2014 and no changes were 
deemed necessary. Copies are available 
on the Group’s website.
Operation of the Committee
In determining the directors’ remuneration for 
the year, the Committee consulted the Chairman 
save in relation to his own remuneration. 
No director is involved in deciding their own 
remuneration. The Committee makes use of 
published reports on directors’ remuneration 
packages and advice from independent external 
advisers is obtained when required. New 
Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt, an 
Aon plc company) is the independent adviser to 
the Remuneration Committee. Aon plc also 
provided insurance broking services to the 
Company during the year. The Committee has 
been advised that New Bridge Street operates 
as a distinct business within the Aon Group and 
that there is a robust separation between the 
business activities and management of 
New Bridge Street and the wider Aon Group. 
The Committee considers that this provision 
of other services by Aon plc does not 
prejudice New Bridge Street’s independence. 
New Bridge Street provides advice to the 
Remuneration Committee on the operation 
of the Company’s incentive schemes and the 
remuneration of executive and non-executive 
directors as well as employee remuneration 
and may also advise the Committee on other 
matters within the Committee’s terms 
of reference.
The Board carried out a review of its operations 
during the year, including the functioning of its 
Committees, and deemed the operation of the 
Remuneration Committee to be satisfactory.
Structure and operation of the Remuneration Committee
 Chairman (non-executive) 1
 Non-executive 3
Composition of the 
Remuneration Committee
 Attended  Did not attend
A H Simon (Chairman) 
M Capello 
S A Ferriss 
J D Waldron 
T otal meetings held 
Attendance of the Committee
Committee attendance 2015
Remuneration
 Committee
 meetings Governance
48
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared 
in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
The policy was developed taking into account the principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (and is consistent with the 
principles of the revised code) and the views of our major shareholders 
and describes the policy applicable from 2014 onwards. 
Policy overview
Overview 
The Committee reviews and determines, 
on behalf of the Board, the salary, fees, 
benefits, pension packages and bonus 
and share incentives of the Chairman and 
the executive directors. The Committee 
also reviews, on behalf of the Board, the 
remuneration packages of the highest paid 
executives and the Company Secretary.
How the views of shareholders and 
employees are taken into account
The Remuneration Committee engages 
proactively with shareholders. When any 
material changes are proposed to the 
remuneration policy, the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman will inform major 
shareholders and offer a meeting to discuss 
the proposals and take into consideration 
any feedback received.
The Remuneration Committee also 
considers shareholder feedback received 
at the AGM and at any other time, for 
example, via general letters from investors 
and circulated to remuneration committee 
chairs. This feedback and that received 
during specific consultation exercises is 
considered as part of the Company’s annual 
review of remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for and against the 
resolution to approve last year’s Remuneration 
Report are provided in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
There is no consultation with employees.
Remuneration policy
Compensation packages for executive 
directors are set by reference to individual 
and corporate performance, individual 
competencies, external market comparisons 
and remuneration levels below Board level 
in the Group. The package for each executive 
director currently comprises a basic salary, 
an annual bonus, share incentives, pension 
contributions and benefits.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to 
associated risks arising throughout the Group 
when setting remuneration. In particular, the 
Committee ensures that the targets attached 
to variable pay schemes are set so that they 
do not encourage any undue risk taking 
by executives.
In order to align the interests of executive 
directors with the interests of shareholders, 
a significant proportion of executive directors’ 
remuneration is performance related through 
the use of annual bonus and share 
incentive schemes.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive 
directors are reviewed annually by the Board 
based on market information obtained from 
external surveys, time commitment and 
relevant experience.
Remuneration policy report
This 2015 Remuneration Report is divided 
into two sections:
 – Remuneration Policy Report, setting out 
the framework within which the Company 
remunerates its Directors. The Company’s 
remuneration policy was put to a shareholder 
vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
of the Company (“AGM”) and was approved 
by 83% of shareholders. There is no 
requirement to vote on the policy at the 2016 
AGM unless any changes to the policy are 
proposed at that meeting. The policy is 
included in this 2015 Remuneration Report 
for information only; the chart showing 
remuneration scenarios on page 54 has 
been updated to reflect proposed 2016 
remuneration levels and minor changes to 
the text of the policy have been made to 
reflect the fact that the policy has already 
been approved by shareholders. Where 
additional information has been included 
in the policy this has been clearly indicated. 
The Policy as approved by shareholders 
is available on the Company’s website.
 – Annual Report on Remuneration, 
setting out how the Company’s present 
remuneration policy was applied during 2015 
and how the policy will be implemented in 
2016. The Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be subject to an advisory resolution at 
the AGM on 20 June 2016. Details of the 
resolution and its status as an advisory 
vote are set out in the Notes to the 
Notice of Meeting.
Introduction Governance Financials Strategic report
49
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
The following table summarises the key aspects of the Company’s remuneration policy for its directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Base salary To recruit and reward 
executives of a suitable 
calibre for the role and 
duties required
The Committee’s policy is to set the base salaries 
of each executive director at levels that reflect their 
roles, experience and practices in the employment 
market whilst ensuring that they take account, where 
applicable, of the pay and employment conditions 
of other employees within their business units and 
countries of employment as well as market practice 
in the countries in which they are operating.
The Committee will usually review executive 
directors’ base salaries at the end of each calendar 
year with any increases effective from 1 January.
The Directors’ salaries (and other elements of the 
remuneration package) are paid in the currency 
appropriate to their geographic location.
There is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the broader employee 
population of the Group and the country 
and business unit in which the director is 
employed, but on occasions may need to 
recognise that higher increases may be 
appropriate, for example, development in 
role, change in responsibility, where the 
size, composition and/or complexity of the 
Group changes or where an individual is 
materially below market comparators.
Details of the outcome of the most recent 
salary review are provided in the Annual 
Remuneration Report.
Benefits To provide market 
competitive benefits 
to ensure the wellbeing 
of employees
Benefits vary according to the employing country 
of the executive director but may comprise some 
or all of the following: a car (or car allowance), 
insurances for life, personal accident, disability, 
permanent health and family medical cover.
Value of benefits is based on the cost to 
the Company, is not pre-determined and 
does not represent a significant part of 
the executives’ overall remuneration.
Additional benefits may be provided 
and the range of those benefits may 
vary taking into account market practice, 
the relevant circumstances and the 
requirements of the executive.
Pension To provide market 
competitive benefits
A Company contribution to a money purchase 
pension scheme or provision of cash allowance 
in lieu of pension at the request of the individual.
For directors based outside the UK, contributions 
to relevant retirement arrangements in those other 
countries, e.g. US 401(k) retirement provisions.
Only base salary is pensionable.
UK resident: 17.5% of salary.
Non-UK resident: retirement provision will 
be consistent with market practice in the 
relevant country. Governance
50
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Remuneration policy continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Annual bonus To incentivise and reward 
delivery of the Company’s 
operational objectives
Not less than 70% of the annual bonus is 
assessed on financial targets set around the 
Group’s and individual businesses’ budgeted 
profits and revenue (“financial objectives”) with 
not more than 30% based on the achievement 
of non-financial strategic objectives (“personal 
objectives”). The Committee retains the 
discretion to set alternative metrics from year 
to year if it deems this appropriate, provided 
always that at least 70% will be based on 
financial measures. Performance is measured 
over one year.
Details of the performance targets set for 
the year under review and performance 
against them is provided in the Annual 
Remuneration Report. 
A clawback mechanism applies to all 
participants in the event of a material 
misstatement of the Group’s accounts 
and also for other defined reasons.
The maximum bonus opportunity for all 
executive directors is 100% of salary. 
0% of salary vests for threshold performance.
For performance below threshold, no bonus 
is payable.
A graduated scale of targets operates between 
entry level and maximum performance.
Long-term 
incentives 
(“LTIP”)
To incentivise and reward 
delivery of the Company’s 
strategic objectives and 
provide alignment with 
shareholders through the 
use of shares
Designed to motivate 
directors and senior 
employees, whilst 
retaining them in the 
Group’s employment
Executive directors are eligible to participate 
in the Management Consulting Group 2008 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”). 
Awards vest subject to continued employment 
and satisfaction of challenging performance 
conditions measured over three years.
All outstanding awards are subject to 
absolute total shareholder return (“TSR”) 
targets. The Committee intends that future 
awards will continue to be subject to absolute 
TSR targets but retains the flexibility to set 
targets using other measures if it considers 
that these are appropriate based on the 
strategic aims of the Company.
In addition to the specified performance 
condition, the Committee must be satisfied 
that the vesting level is warranted by the 
Company’s underlying financial performance 
over the three-year performance period.
A clawback mechanism applies in the event 
of a material misstatement of the Group’s 
accounts and also for other defined reasons.
Maximum award in any financial year over 
shares with a market value (at date of award) 
of 100% of annual base salary in that financial 
year. In exceptional circumstances, this limit 
may be increased to 200% of an employee’s 
annual base salary.
20% of the award vests for 
threshold performance.
No vesting for below threshold performance.
Remuneration policy report continued Governance Financials Strategic report
51
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Chairman and 
non-executive 
director fees
To attract and retain a 
high-calibre Chairman 
and non-executive directors 
by offering a market 
competitive fee level
The Chairman and non-executive directors 
are not normally entitled to bonuses or 
pension contributions or to participate in any 
share scheme. However, the Company may 
provide benefits if deemed appropriate.
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his 
responsibilities. The non-executives are paid 
a basic fee. The Chairmen of the main Board 
Committees and the Senior Independent 
Director are paid an additional fee to reflect 
their extra responsibilities. 
Non-executives may be paid additional 
fees for other responsibilities such as being 
appointed to the Supervisory Board of 
subsidiaries of the Company. 
The level of these fees is normally reviewed 
annually by the Committee and Chief Executive 
for the Chairman and by the Chairman and 
executive directors for the non-executive 
directors, with reference to market levels in 
comparably sized FTSE companies and taking 
into account the role, responsibilities and 
time commitment, and a recommendation 
is then made to the Board. Fees are paid in 
cash. If there is a change in responsibility 
and/or time commitments during the year 
then the Board can change the level of fees 
from the date of the change.
As for the executive directors, there is 
no prescribed maximum annual increase.
Fees will be set taking account of market 
data and time commitment, experience 
and responsibility. Increases will normally 
be in line with inflation but on occasions the 
Board will need to take account of increased 
responsibilities and time commitment.
Shareholding 
guidelines
To align interests 
of executive directors 
with those of shareholders
Executive directors are required to retain 
50% of the post-tax shares received under 
LTIPs until their shareholding represents 
100% of their base salary.
n/a
The Committee will operate the annual 
bonus plan and Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”) according to the rules of each 
respective plan and consistent with normal 
market practice and the Listing Rules, 
including flexibility in a number of regards. 
How the Committee will retain flexibility 
includes (albeit with quantum and 
performance targets restricted to the 
descriptions detailed above):
 – who participates in the plan;
 – when to make awards and payments;
 – how to determine the size of an award, 
a payment, or when and how much of 
an award should vest;
 – the testing of a performance condition 
over a shortened performance period;
 – how to deal with a change of control 
or restructuring of the Group;
 – whether a director is a good/bad leaver for 
incentive plan purposes, what proportion 
of awards vest at the original vesting date 
or whether and what proportion of awards 
may vest at the time of leaving;
 – how and whether an award may 
be adjusted in certain circumstances 
(e.g. for a rights issue, a corporate 
restructuring or special dividends); and
 – what the weighting, measures and 
targets should be for the annual bonus 
plan and PSP from year to year. Governance
52
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Remuneration policy continued
The Committee also retains the discretion 
within the policy to adjust existing targets 
and/or set different measures and alter 
weighting for the annual bonus plan and 
for the PSP if events happen that cause it 
to determine that the targets are no longer 
appropriate and amendment is required 
so they can achieve their original intended 
purpose and provided the new targets are 
not materially less difficult to satisfy. The 
Committee will disclose any changes and 
the reasons for those changes in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration for the year in which 
the alteration is made. 
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving 
this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority 
is given to the Company to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or 
former directors (such as the payment of 
last year’s annual bonus or the vesting/
exercise of share awards granted in the 
past) that have been disclosed in previous 
Remuneration Reports and in respect of 
long-term incentive awards as detailed on 
pages 57 to 58 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. Details of any payments to 
former directors will be set out in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Choice of performance measures 
and approach to target setting
The performance measures and targets 
set for the executive directors’ annual bonus 
and PSP awards are carefully selected to 
align with the Company’s strategic and key 
performance indicators. 
For the annual bonus, financial and 
non-financial strategic measures are reviewed 
and selected by the Committee annually. 
The measures selected and weighting 
between them may vary annually depending 
on the key priorities of the business for the 
year ahead. Robust and demanding targets 
will be set annually taking into account the 
economic environment, market expectations 
and the Company’s budget, business plan 
and strategic priorities for the year ahead.
The Company has used an absolute TSR 
for a number of years in line with the Group’s 
strategy of delivering superior returns to its 
shareholders. The Committee will continue to 
review the choice of performance measures 
and the appropriateness of targets prior to 
each PSP award being made and will set 
robust and stretching targets for any 
measures used. 
Differences in remuneration 
policy for executive directors 
compared to other employees
The remuneration policy for the executive 
directors is designed with regard to the policy 
for employees across the Group as a whole. 
For example, the Committee takes into 
account the general basic salary increase 
for the broader employee population when 
determining the annual salary review for the 
executive directors. There are some differences 
in the structure of the remuneration policy 
for the executive directors and other senior 
employees compared to the wider employee 
group, which the Remuneration Committee 
believes are necessary to reflect the different 
levels of responsibility. The key differences 
in remuneration policy between the executive 
directors/other senior employees and 
employees across the Group are the 
increased emphasis on performance-related 
pay and the inclusion of a share-based 
long-term incentive plan. 
Other director positions
Mr Stagg is a director of Shinetrip Ltd 
and a non-voting adviser to the board of 
Wedlake Bell LLP. The Company recognises 
that executive directors may be invited to 
become non-executive directors of other 
companies and/or sit on the board of subsidiary 
companies and that such appointments can 
broaden their knowledge and experience 
to the benefit of the Group and they are 
entitled to retain any fees earned. Such fees 
will be disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for the relevant year.
Approach to recruitment 
and promotions
The remuneration package for a new director 
would be set in accordance with the terms 
of the Company’s approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment. 
Currently, for an executive director, this 
would facilitate annual bonus and PSP 
payments of no more than 100% of salary 
for each, except in exceptional circumstances 
where PSP limits of no more than 200% of 
salary may be made. This exceptional limit 
allows, in particular, for recruitment in 
exceptional circumstances meeting local 
market needs. For the annual bonus, specific 
targets could be introduced for an individual 
where necessary for the first year of 
appointment if it is appropriate to do so 
to reflect the individual’s responsibilities 
and the point in the year in which they joined 
the Board. For long-term incentives, an 
award may be made in the year of joining 
or, alternatively, the award can be delayed 
until the following year.
The salary for a new executive director may 
(but will not necessarily) be set below the 
normal market rate, with phased increases 
over the first few years as the executive 
gains experience in their new role.
The Committee may offer additional 
cash and/or share-based elements when 
it considers these to be in the best interests 
of the Company and its shareholders. 
Such payments would only take account 
of remuneration relinquished when leaving 
the former employer and would reflect (as far 
as possible) the nature and time horizons 
attaching to that remuneration and the impact 
of any performance conditions and be of a 
broadly similar quantum.
For an internal executive director appointment, 
any variable pay element awarded in respect 
of the prior role will be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant 
to take into account the appointment. In 
addition, any other ongoing remuneration 
obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue and as such are part of the 
Company’s remuneration policy for its 
executive directors.
Remuneration policy report continued Governance Financials Strategic report
53
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
For external and internal executive 
appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation expenses as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or 
non-executive director, the fee arrangement 
would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time.
Service contracts and payments 
for loss of office
No director has a service contract containing 
more than a one year notice period or with 
pre-determined compensation provisions 
upon termination exceeding one year’s salary 
and benefits. It is the Company’s policy that, 
except where prescribed by law, there should 
be no automatic entitlement to bonuses or 
share-based payments in the event of an early 
termination. All newly appointed executive 
directors will have contracts terminable at 
any time on up to one year’s notice.
Mr Stagg and Mr Povey have contracts with 
the Company which either party is able to 
terminate by giving twelve months’ notice. 
Mr Mahjoub had an appointment letter in 
respect of his role as a director of the 
Company which may be terminated with 
no notice. Mr Mahjoub also had a contract 
with a Group company which either party 
is able to terminate by giving three months’ 
notice. Mr Stagg’s and Mr Povey’s contracts 
continue until age 65. Mr Mahjoub’s 
contract continued until the mandatory 
retirement age as specified under French 
employment legislation. 
A director’s service contract may be terminated 
without notice and without any further 
payment or compensation, except for sums 
accrued up to the date of termination, on the 
occurrence of certain events such as gross 
misconduct. If the employing company 
terminates the employment of an executive 
director in other circumstances, compensation 
is limited to salary due for any unexpired 
notice period and any amount assessed by 
the Remuneration Committee as representing 
the value of other contractual benefits 
(including pension) which would have been 
received during the period. In addition, in these 
circumstances Mr Stagg may be entitled to 
retain his car. The Committee also has the 
discretion to pay statutory entitlements or 
sums to settle or compromise claims in 
connection with a termination if necessary. 
In the event of a change of control of the 
Company there is no enhancement to 
contractual terms. Service contracts are 
available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an 
executive director under the Company’s share 
plans will be determined based on the relevant 
plan rules. The default treatment is that any 
outstanding unvested awards lapse on 
cessation of employment. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances, such as death,
In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period Twelve months for all executive directors except 
Mr Mahjoub, who was on three months’ notice.
Termination payment
Base salary plus benefits (including pension where applicable), 
paid monthly and subject to mitigation.
In addition, any statutory entitlements would be paid 
as necessary.
Remuneration entitlements
A pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period 
of active service along with vesting for outstanding share 
awards (in certain circumstances – see below).
In all cases performance targets would apply.
Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control.
injury, disability, retirement, the sale of the 
executive’s employing company or business 
in which he was employed out of the Group, 
or in other circumstances at the discretion 
of the Committee (taking into account the 
individual’s performance and the reasons 
for their departure), awards may vest at the 
normal vesting date. In these circumstances 
the awards remain subject to performance 
conditions measured over the original time 
period and are reduced pro-rata to reflect the 
proportion of the performance period actually 
served. The Remuneration Committee has 
the discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it 
considers it appropriate to do so although it 
is envisaged that this would only be applied 
in exceptional circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee may decide 
to allow the awards to vest on cessation of 
employment, in which case vesting will be 
subject to the satisfaction of the relevant 
performance conditions at that time and 
reduced on a time pro-rated basis (although 
the Remuneration Committee can disapply 
time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate 
to do so).
In determining whether an executive’s 
awards should be allowed to vest (subject 
to performance conditions being met), 
the Committee will take into account 
the performance of the individual and 
the reasons for their departure.
In the event of change of control, awards 
would be eligible to vest based on (i) the 
extent to which performance targets had 
been met, as assessed by the Committee, 
over the shortened performance period and 
(ii) subject to a pro rate reduction for time 
(which the Committee retains discretion 
to disapply if it considers it appropriate 
to do so). Governance
54
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Chairman and non-executive directors
The shareholder approved policy states that the chairman and non-executive directors do not have service contracts and all are appointed for 
limited terms and subject to annual reappointment at the AGM. At the time the policy was approved, neither the Chairman nor the non-executive 
directors were subject to notice periods or had any rights to compensation on termination, although the policy reserves the right to introduce 
notice periods if they are considered appropriate. In 2014 the Committee reviewed the terms on which the Chairman is engaged by the Company 
and agreed that the Chairman should be provided with a fixed term agreement for one year effective from 1 January 2015. In 2015 the Committee 
again reviewed the terms and from 1 January 2016 the Chairman has an agreement with no notice period.
Reward scenarios
The chart below provides an indication of the remuneration of the executive directors at minimum, in line with expectation on-target and 
maximum performance, in accordance with the policy. The chart does not include share price movement and all other assumptions are 
noted below.
 
Assumptions: 
1 Fixed pay consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
2 Base salaries are as at 1 January 2016.
3 Value of benefits is based on the expected value for 2016. Pension is based on 2016 policy applied to 1 January 2016 salaries.
4 Target annual bonus is 60% of maximum.
5 Target PSP award assumes vesting of 50% of award in the year.
6 Maximum is full vesting of annual bonus and PSP award in the year.
7 Annual bonus and PSP awards are in accordance with implementation of policy for 2016.
8 No share price appreciation is assumed.
Remuneration policy report continued
Maximum
N S Stagg
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,200,000
1,000,000
1,400,000
0
100% 56% 41%
£563,150
£1,003,150
£1,363,150
24%
29%
20%
29%
100% 52% 37%
£297,316
£572,316
£797 ,316
26%
31%
22%
31%
On-target
Minimum
Value (£)
Maximum
C J Povey
On-target
Minimum Governance Financials Strategic report
55
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set 
out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013, and 9.8.6R and 9.8.8 of the Listing Rules. The Annual Remuneration Report will 
be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. The information on pages 55 to 59 has 
been audited.
How the policy will be applied in 2016
2016 salary and benefits
The executive directors’ salaries have been reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016 and there are no increases.
The current salaries as at 1 January 2016 are as follows:
Salary as at
1 January 2015
Salary as at
1 January 2016 % increase
N S Stagg £400,000 £400,000 —
C J Povey £250,000 £250,000 —
As a result of the Group’s business operations now being largely in the US and his continuing role as Chief Executive Officer of Alexander Proudfoot, 
Mr Stagg has been required to spend a considerable amount of time in the US with significant disruption to his personal life. This time commitment 
is likely to continue for the foreseeable future and in the circumstances the Committee has agreed that Mr Stagg’s benefits should include 
a disruption allowance of £50,000 p.a. effective from 1 January 2016.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors 
A summary of fees as at 1 January 2016 is as follows:
Fees at
1 January 2015
Fees at
1 January 2016 % increase
Chairman £300,000 £300,000 —
Base fee for non-executive directors £35,000 £35,000 —
Senior Independent Director and Committee Chair additional fees £5,000 £5,000 —
For 2015 the Chairman was on a fixed term agreement for one year until 31 December 2015. It has been agreed that until his retirement in 2017 
the Chairman’s services will be provided with no notice period (with fees payable to the end of the month when services cease to be provided) 
and that his annual fee will reduce to £100,000 p.a. from the 2016 AGM as a result of the reduced time that he will be required to commit to 
the role from that date.
Mr Capello and Mr Di Spiezio Sardo, who were appointed to the Board as non-executive directors on 18 June 2010, have voluntarily agreed not 
to take fees.
Performance targets for the annual bonus and LTIP awards 2016
For 2016, the major part of the annual bonus will be assessed on financial targets set around the Group’s budgeted profits from operations 
and revenue with the remainder based on the achievement of personal strategic objectives.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year for the annual bonus as these include 
items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. Disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be set out in next 
year’s Annual Remuneration Report provided they are not commercially sensitive at that time.
The annual bonus maximum opportunity and maximum PSP award grant level is 100% of base salary.
The performance conditions for any PSP awards to be granted in 2016 will be agreed by the Remuneration Committee prior to grant. 
The performance conditions attached to awards will be disclosed in the appropriate RNS announcement.
Annual report on remuneration Governance
56
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015
The table below sets out the remuneration received by the directors in relation to performance in FY 2015 (or for performance periods ending 
in FY 2015 in respect of long-term incentives).
£’000
Salary
and fees Benefits 
1
Pension 
2
Annual
 bonus 
3
Long-term
incentives Other 
4
Total
Executive directors
N S Stagg 2015 400,000 43,150 70,000 200,000 — — 713,150
2014 400,000 42,007 70,000 85,000 — — 597,007
C J Povey 2015 250,000 3,566 43,750 130,000 — — 427,316
2014 250,000 3,905 43,750 53,100 — — 350,755
C Mahjoub
5
2015 381,098 15,552 36,988 — — 1,612,552 2,046,190
2014 412,940 14,560 34,630 238,176 — — 700,306
Chairman
A J Barber 2015 300,000 — — — — — 300,000
2014 250,000 — — — — — 250,000
Non-executive directors
M Capello 2015 — — — — — — —
2014 — — — — — — —
S A Ferriss 2015 45,000 — — — — — 45,000
2014 45,000 — — — — — 45,000
N L Halkes 2015 1,077 — — — — — 1,077
2014 — — — — — — —
E Di Spiezio Sardo 2015 — — — — — — —
2014 — — — — — — —
A H Simon
6
2015 43,630 — — — — — 43,630
2014 44,029 — — — — — 44,029
J D Waldron 2015 40,000 — — — — — 40,000
2014 40,000 — — — — — 40,000
Total 2015 1,460,805 62,268 150,738 330,000 — 1,612,552 3,616,363
2014 1,441,969 60,472 148,380 376,276 — — 2,027,097
1 Benefits include, where appropriate, a car, insurances for life, personal accident, disability, permanent health and family medical cover. 
2 For UK resident directors, pensions represent 17.5% of base salary and for the French resident director €44,000 for 2014 and 10% of base salary for 2015.
3  This relates to the payment of the annual bonus for performance in the relevant year and the transaction bonus payable following completion of the disposal of certain operations 
of Kurt Salmon to Solucom. Shareholder consent was provided on 17 December 2015 for the transaction that completed on 7 January 2016. The Committee determined that it was 
therefore appropriate for the bonus to be reported for the financial year 2015. The bonuses are paid entirely in cash. Further details are provided on the following page. 
4 Payments made to Mr Mahjoub in respect of his cessation on 18 December 2015 and as disclosed in further detail on page 59.
5 Remuneration disclosed above for Mr Mahjoub’s includes payments made in respect of his cessation on 18 December 2015.
6 Remuneration disclosed above for Mr Simon is up to 18 December 2015 when he ceased to be a Director.
Annual report on remuneration continued Governance Financials Strategic report
57
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 December 2015
The annual bonus for the year under review was determined by the performance targets and performance against them as set out below:
Performance hurdle
Proportion of total bonus available
Actual 
performance
achieved
% of 
salary payable Weighting
% of 
salary
Financial objective
Group underlying operating profit of £12.375m  
for threshold 0% vesting to £16.5m for maximum vesting 75% 75% Below threshold 0.00%
In considering performance against the financial objective, the Committee has taken into account the underlying operating profit of the continuing 
and discontinued operations of the Group. The remaining 25% of the bonus is determined by strategic objectives.
The Committee has decided that, given the quantum of the Transaction Incentive Bonus payable to them on the disposal of parts of the 
Kurt Salmon business (see below), no bonus will be payable for the strategic element of the annual bonus. 
T ransaction Incentive Bonus
Mr Stagg and Mr Povey received Transaction Incentive Bonuses of £200,000 and £130,000 on the disposal of certain operations of the Kurt Salmon 
business. These Transaction Incentive Bonuses do not fall within the parameters of the shareholder approved remuneration policy and were 
therefore specifically approved by shareholders at the General Meeting of the Company convened on 17 December 2015 where the disposal 
of certain operations of the Kurt Salmon business was also approved.
Share awards
The interests in the year of the directors in PSP awards in the Company are set out in the table below:
Director
Nature
of award 
1
Date
of grant
At
1 January
2015
Granted
in year
Vested
in year
Lapsed
in year
At
31 December
2015
Date
performance
period ends
Date
from which
shares vest
N S Stagg LTI FY 2011 6 January 2012 971,000 — — 971,000 — 5 January 2015 5 January 2015
N S Stagg LTI FY 2012 31 August 2012 1,200,000 — — 1,200,000 — 30 August 2015 30 August 2015
N S Stagg LTI FY 2013 7 March 2013 1,403,000 — — — 1,403,000 6 March 2016 6 March 2016
C J Povey LTI FY 2011 6 January 2012 647,000 — — 647,000 — 5 January 2015 5 January 2015
C J Povey LTI FY 2012 31 August 2012 800,000 — — 800,000 — 30 August 2015 30 August 2015
C J Povey LTI FY 2013 7 March 2013 877,000 — — — 877,000 6 March 2016 6 March 2016
C Mahjoub LTI FY 2011 6 January 2012 1,341,000 — — 1,341,000 — 5 January 2015 5 January 2015
C Mahjoub LTI FY 2012 31 August 2012 1,200,000 — — 1,200,000 — 30 August 2015 30 August 2015
C Mahjoub LTI FY 2013 7 March 2013 1,403,000 — — 1,403,000 — Lapsed on cessation as a director
 on 18 December 2015
1 Award type: LTI FY – Long-term incentive award under the 2008 Performance Share Plan for the financial year stated. Governance
58
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Annual report on remuneration continued
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
PSP awards made during the year 
No PSP awards were granted to executive directors in 2015.
Vesting of PSP awards
In 2012 each executive director received two awards. The first award made on 6 January 2012 was in respect of financial year 2011 and the 
second made on 31 August 2012 was in respect of the financial year 2012. No awards were made in the financial year 2011. Thus the underlying 
intention of not awarding more than 100% of base salary per year was maintained. The vesting of both PSP awards were based on performance 
to the third anniversary of the date of grant. The performance conditions for these awards were not met and these awards have now lapsed. 
Performance achieved was as follows:
6 January 2012 award
Metric Condition for performance period ending on third anniversary of grant Actual % vesting
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) 20% vesting at TSR creation of 6p to 100% vesting for  
TSR creation of 30p with straight-line vesting in between
No TSR created 0%
Total vesting —
31 August 2012 award
Metric Condition for performance period ending on third anniversary of grant Actual % vesting
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) 20% vesting at TSR creation of 5p to 100% vesting for TSR creation 
of 25p with straight-line vesting in between
No TSR created 0%
Total vesting —
The share prices on the dates of grant were 31.00p on 6 January 2012, 24.63p on 31 August 2012 and 28.5p on 7 March 2013.
Except for the directors shown in the above tables no other director held share awards at 31 December 2015. There have been no variations 
to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share awards during the financial year.
The market price at 31 December 2015 was 14.875p and the range during 2015 was 13.50p to 19.00p.
Outstanding PSP awards
Awards made to executive directors in respect of the financial year 2013 would vest in three years, subject to the individual director’s continued 
employment with the Company’s Group and the achievement of a TSR performance condition set out in the table below: 
Date of grant 7 March 2013
Share price at grant 28.5p
20% vesting at TSR creation of 5.0p
100% vesting at TSR creation of 25.0p
(Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100%).
In addition to the TSR performance condition, the Committee must be satisfied that the vesting level is warranted by the Company’s underlying 
financial performance over the three year performance period. Since the year end, the performance conditions for these awards have not been 
met and these awards have now lapsed.
At 31 December 2015, there were awards outstanding over new shares under the 2008 Performance Share Plan of 2.3m, comprising 0.5% 
of the issued share capital. 
Shareholders have approved that the aggregate options and awards over new issue shares outstanding are limited to 12.8% of the fully diluted 
share capital. Governance Financials Strategic report
59
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Directors’ shareholding and share interests
To align the interests of the executive directors and senior management with shareholders, participating executives are required to build 
up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Company’s share plans. The executive directors are required to build up 
a shareholding equivalent to 100% of salary, to be achieved through retaining at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares 
vesting or acquired under the long-term incentive share plans, until such time as the upper limit of their share ownership target has been met. 
Details of the directors’ interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Beneficially
owned at
31 December
2015
Beneficially
owned at
21 March
2016
Outstanding
PSP awards 
3
%
shareholding
guideline
achieved at
31 December
2015
Executive directors
N S Stagg 1,364,972 1,364,972 1,403,000 50.8%
C J Povey 32,000 32,000 877,000 1.9%
C Mahjoub
1
3,439,532 n/a — n/a
Chairman and non-executive directors
A J Barber 2,200,000 2,200,000 — n/a
M Capello
2
— — — n/a
S A Ferriss 367,451 367,451 — n/a
N L Halkes 60,000 60,000 — n/a
E Di Spiezio Sardo
2
— — — n/a
A H Simon
1
62,937 n/a — n/a
J D Waldron 256,725 256,725 — n/a
1 Shareholdings and share awards shown as at 18 December 2015 being the date of cessation as a director of Management Consulting Group PLC.
2 Mr Capello and Mr Di Spiezio Sardo are partners of BlueGem Capital Partners LLP, the manager of BlueGem LP, whose interest in the Company is disclosed in the Directors’ Report.
3 These awards have lapsed in March 2016.
Departure of Mr Chiheb Mahjoub
Mr Mahjoub ceased to be an executive director of the Company and an employee of the Group on 18 December 2015. Mr Mahjoub received 
benefits and pension to the 18 December 2015 and base salary to 31 December 2015. Mr Mahjoub was entitled on cessation to certain statutory 
payments in accordance with French labour law and following legal advice a sum in settlement of claims under French labour law was made in 
connection with his cessation: 
 – €518,480 mandatory Collective Bargaining severance allowance for 20.84 years of service; 
 – €107,472 for 36 accrued vacation days compensation; and 
 – €1,595,500 settlement. 
All the remuneration paid in respect of Mr Mahjoub’s cessation is set out in the remuneration table on page 56. No annual bonus is payable for 
2015. All unvested PSP awards lapsed on his ceasing to be a Group employee. Governance
60
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued
Unaudited information
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
% change
2014 to 2015
Chief Executive
Salary 0%
Benefits 2.7%
Bonus 135.3%
Average per employee
Salary 1.6%
Benefits 0.2%
Bonus (5.6)%
The table above shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive between the year under report 
and previous financial year compared to that for the average employee. 
Performance graph
The regulations require this report to contain a graph illustrating the Company’s performance compared with an appropriate “broad equity 
market index” over the past seven years. Management Consulting Group PLC was a constituent of the FTSE All-Share Index and, accordingly, 
that index is considered the most appropriate form of “broad equity market index” against which the Group’s performance should be plotted. 
Performance, as required by the legislation, is measured by TSR (share price growth plus dividends paid).
 
 
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of £100 invested in Management Consulting Group PLC on 31 December 2008 compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration (£’000) 500 521 717 534 956 597 713
Annual bonus (% of maximum) 0% 22.3% 54.7% 24.9% 45.9% 21.3% 0%
LTIP vesting (% of maximum) 0% 0% 0% 0% 28.9% 0% 0%
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive during each of the financial years shown. The total remuneration 
figure includes the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards which vested based on performance in those years (and ending in that year 
for the long-term incentive).
Annual report on remuneration continued
T otal Shareholder Return
Source: Thomson Reuters (Datastream)
0
31 December
2008
31 December
2009
31 December
2010
Management Consulting Group PLC
31 December
2011
31 December
2012
31 December
2013
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
Value (£)
FTSE All-Share Index Governance Financials Strategic report
61
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Relative importance of the spend on pay
2014 
restated 2015
%
increase/
(decrease)
Staff costs £’000 84,710 88,743 4.8%
Dividends £’000 4,005 — (100.0)%
The table above shows the movement in spend on staff costs compared to dividends.
External advisers
New Bridge Street (“NBS”) was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2011. NBS meets and/or speaks one-to-one with the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman at least once a year to discuss matters such as topical issues in remuneration which are of particular relevance to the Company, 
and how best it can work with the Company to meet the Committee’s needs. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct 
and has confirmed to the Committee its compliance with the Code. The Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives is objective 
and independent.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were £17,952. The fees are predominantly charged on 
a “time spent” basis. 
External directorships
The table below sets out details of the external directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received in respect of their 
services during the year.
Position FY 2015 FY 2014
N S Stagg
Shinetrip Ltd £27,500 £27,500
Wedlake Bell – adviser to board — —
Statement of shareholder voting
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Vote on the Company’s Remuneration Report
2015 AGM %
Votes cast in favour 254,369,905 97.3%
Votes cast against 7,008,305 2.7%
Total votes cast 261,378,210 100.0%
Votes withheld 97,868,170 
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report, including both the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Yours sincerely
N L Halkes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 March 2016 Governance
62
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU. Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and the parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
 – properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 – make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Chairman’s Statement, Business Review and the Financial Review contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results of operations and businesses of the Group. These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. The forward-looking statements are based 
on the directors’ current views and information known to them at 21 March 2016. The directors do not make any undertaking to update or revise 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Nothing in this report should be construed 
as a profit forecast.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 – the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 – the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Nick Stagg Chris Povey
Chief Executive Finance Director
21 March 2016 Governance Financials Strategic report
63
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Management Consulting Group PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Management 
Consulting Group PLC
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent 
Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow 
Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes 
in Equity and the related notes 1 to 28. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis 
of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and 
the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the group 
contained within the strategic report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation on page 30 that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on page 31 that describe those risks and explain 
how they are being managed or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in note 2 to the financial statements about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the group’s ability to continue to do so 
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements;
 – the director’s explanation on page 32 as to how they have assessed 
the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement 
as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of 
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent 
of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided 
any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those 
that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. Governance
64
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Management Consulting Group PLC
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Disposal of certain operations of Kurt Salmon
The classification and valuation of net assets in the 
disposal group as held for sale at the balance sheet date 
is a key area of management judgement. In addition, the 
classification of this business as discontinued operations 
must be carefully considered in line with IFRS 5: 
‘Non current assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations’. A total loss from discontinued operations of 
£57.8 million has been recognised in the Income Statement. 
There is also significant judgement surrounding the 
allocation of Goodwill to the disposal group. Further 
information is included in notes 10 and 27 to the accounts
We recomputed the loss on disposal recognised with reference to the relevant 
legal agreements and other third party information. We have assessed the 
judgements made by management in calculating the loss on disposal, including 
in relation to provisions, warranties, and any relevant disposal adjustments, with 
reference to historical performance and other available information. 
We also assessed the classification of the disposed business and other assets 
held for sale as discontinued operations against the relevant criteria in IFRS 5, 
and the classification and valuation of assets held for sale. 
We have assessed the allocation of goodwill to the disposal group in line with 
IAS 36: Impairment of Assets.
Carrying value of goodwill
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill due to 
the significance of the goodwill asset on the balance sheet 
(£144.3 million). There are also significant judgements 
required in respect of the allocation of goodwill to cash 
generating units, forecasting future cash flows, associated 
discount rates and growth rates.
Further information in this area is discussed in the critical 
accounting judgements in Note 2 of the accounts. 
We tested management’s assumptions used in the impairment model for 
goodwill, described in note 10 to the financial statements. 
We considered and evaluated the key assumptions which we judged to be the 
allocation of goodwill to cash generating units, future cash flows, growth rates 
and the discount rates applied, through consideration of the assessment of CGUs 
in accordance with IAS 36, our understanding of the future prospects of the 
business (with particular focus on assessment of forecasts against historical 
forecast accuracy), benchmarking against comparator businesses, and 
comparison against the market rate and the prevailing Group cost of capital. 
We focused our sensitivity analysis on the shortfall of actual performance to 
budget in recent years, and hypothesised numerous reduced growth scenarios. 
We used our internal valuation specialists to assess the calculation methodology 
for the discount rate. 
We have critically assessed the reasonableness of sensitivities applied by 
management against the base case scenario and recalculated the headroom 
available under the sensitised position. In addition, we have considered the  
levels to which profits would have to decline before an impairment is triggered.
We have tested the mechanics of the impairment model prepared by 
management by validating the relevant calculations.
Revenue recognition
We consider that the risk specifically relates to the 
valuation and cut-off of revenue and due to the nature 
of the consultancies, and the short payment terms in 
Proudfoot, we have focussed the risk on Kurt Salmon.
Each of the consultancies record revenue based on time 
incurred, and account for the deferral or accrual of revenue 
so as to estimate the fair value of work delivered where 
the consultancy has the right to consideration at the 
balance sheet date.
We also consider the recognition of non-traditional fees 
(“NTF”) to be a risk. The timing of recognition of the 
fees is determined based on contractual conditions 
and management’s judgement as to whether the 
conditions have been met at year end. 
We assessed the revenue recognition policies applied in the two divisions of the 
Group, including the valuation and timing of revenue recognition. We evaluated 
the design and implementation of revenue controls in the businesses subject to 
full audit scope.
We performed substantive tests on a sample of projects, agreeing fees and 
project dates to contracts. Independent recalculation was performed on a sample 
of the accrued and deferred income balances by reference to the revenue recognised 
and pre year end billing, accrued balances were tied to post year end billings. 
Time reports were assessed and used to recalculate revenue recognised for 
the year under review. We considered whether the revenue recognition policies 
adopted complied with IFRS.
We tested in detail the provision for bad debts through consideration of overdue debts 
and aged accrued income and assessing the level of provision against any risk, to 
determine whether projects had been adequately reviewed for debtor recoverability. Governance Financials Strategic report
65
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Recoverability of deferred tax assets
Recognition and recoverability of £14.4 million deferred tax 
assets, in particular those in overseas jurisdictions due to 
the judgement in assessing the probability that sufficient 
future taxable profits will be generated against which the 
deferred tax asset can be offset.
Further information in this area is discussed in the critical 
accounting judgements in Note 2 of the accounts. 
We tested and evaluated the appropriateness of management’s assumptions  
and estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating future taxable profits 
to support the recognition of deferred tax assets as described in note 15 to the 
financial statements, considering those assumptions and supporting forecasts 
and estimates as well as the appropriateness of tax disclosures. 
We used our internal tax specialists to assess tax rates against local tax 
legislation and review supporting documentation as well as assessing 
management’s assumptions and estimates in accordance with accepted 
tax accounting practice.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the 
significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on 
page 42.
The risks are in line with those reported in the 2014 Annual report, 
with the exception of the addition of the risk associated with the 
accounting for the disposal. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial 
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of 
a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. 
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and 
in evaluating the results of our work.
When determining materiality, we considered the decline in earnings 
this year and at present do not consider that this decline is likely to 
reflect a long-term reduction in the net profitability of the business.
We therefore determined materiality by considering a range of 
possible benchmarks and the figures derived from those, then 
selecting a materiality within that range that we considered 
appropriate. We determined materiality for the group on a 
blended basis to be £400,000 (2014: £450,000). 
This materiality equates to less than 0.3% of revenue from continuing 
operations and less than 0.3% of net assets. Last year (prior to 
restatement as no discontinued operations had been identified 
at the time of the 2014 financial statements) we used a benchmark 
of 10% of profit before tax, which equated to less than 0.2% of 
revenue and less than 0.3% of net assets. 
In determining materiality at £400,000, we concluded that we 
would apply an appropriately conservative approach and ensure 
that materiality did not exceed the materiality set in the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £20,000 (2014: £20,000), 
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group 
and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our group audit scope at five key locations 
being the UK, US, South Africa, France and Germany, the key components 
of which were all subject to a full audit where the extent of our testing 
was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
and of the materiality of the group’s operations at those locations. 
The Group audit team undertook the audit work in respect of the UK, 
US and South African components. 
These locations represent the principal business units within each of 
the group’s reportable segments and the full audits undertaken at these 
locations account for 80% of the group’s revenue from continuing 
operations (2014: 93% of group revenue) and 78% of total assets 
(2014: 81%). They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis 
for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement 
identified above. Our audit work at the five key locations was executed 
at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were 
lower than group materiality and capped at £325,000 (2014: £325,000). 
The Group audit team met with the management teams in the UK and 
US. The Senior Statutory Auditor also attended audit close meetings 
at these locations. In years when we do not visit a significant component 
we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, 
discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the 
findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process 
and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information arising from the remaining components not 
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. Governance
66
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Management Consulting Group PLC
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received 
and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our 
opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance 
with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report 
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies 
or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology 
and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, 
understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include 
our dedicated professional standards review team and independent 
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the 
parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Anthony Morris, FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
21 March 2016 Governance Financials Strategic report
67
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
restated
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 138,928 145,859
Cost of sales (87,866) (86,387)
Gross profit 51,062 59,472
Administrative expenses – underlying (50,293) (51,811)
Profit from operations – underlying 769 7,661
Administrative expenses – non-recurring (net) 4 (253) (2,536)
Profit from operations before amortisation of acquired intangibles 516 5,125
Administrative expenses – amortisation of acquired intangibles 10 (569) (786)
Total administrative expenses (51,115) (55,133)
(Loss)/profit from operations 3 (53) 4,339
Investment revenues 6a 13 32
Finance costs 6b (3,682) (1,577)
(Loss)/profit before tax 4 (3,722) 2,794
Tax 7 (4,024) (4,854)
Loss for the period from continuing operations (7,746) (2,060)
(Loss)/profit for the period from discontinued operations 27 (57,802) 1,098
Loss for the period (65,548) (962)
(Loss)/earnings per share – pence
From loss from continuing operations for the year attributable to owners of the Company:
Basic 9 (1.6) (0.4)
Diluted 9 (1.6) (0.4)
Basic – underlying 9 (1.5) (0.1)
Diluted – underlying 9 (1.5) (0.1)
From the (loss)/profit for the period:
Basic 9 (13.3) (0.2)
Diluted 9 (13.3) (0.2)
Basic – underlying 9 (1.1) 0.2
Diluted – underlying 9 (1.1) 0.2
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Financials
68
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Loss for the year (65,548) (962)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit post-retirement obligations 17 639 (3,828)
Tax items taken directly to comprehensive income 7, 15 306 594
945 (3,234)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Loss on available-for-sale investments — (218)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1,738) (6,097)
(1,738) (6,315)
Total comprehensive expense for the year attributable to owners of the Company (66,341) (10,511)
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Governance Financials Strategic report
69
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve 
£’000 
Share
compensation
reserve
£’000
Shares held
by employee 
benefit trusts
 £’000
Translation
reserve
 £’000
Other
reserves
 £’000
Retained
earnings
 £’000 
 Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 84,504 82,040 32,513 6,239 (4,111) 25,126 6,300 (21,745) 210,866
Loss for the year — — — — — — — (962) (962)
Other comprehensive expense — — — — — (6,097) (218) (3,234) (9,549)
Total other comprehensive expense — — — — — (6,097) (218) (4,196) (10,511)
Shares issued 14 322 — — — — — — 336
Share-based payments — — — 3,028 — — — — 3,028
Lapsed/vested shares — — — (3,530) 2,005 — — 412 (1,113)
Shares acquired by employee 
benefit trusts — — — — (1,015) — — — (1,015)
Shares transferred from employee 
benefit trusts — — — — 58 — — — 58
Dividends paid to shareholders — — — — — — — (3,984) (3,984)
Balance at 31 December 2014 84,518 82,362 32,513 5,737 (3,063) 19,029 6,082 (29,513) 197,665
Loss for the year — — — — — — — (65,548) (65,548)
Other comprehensive expense — — — — — (1,738) — 945 (793)
Total other comprehensive expense — — — — — (1,738) — (64,603) (66,341)
Shares issued 20 302 — — — — — — 322
Share-based payments — — — 1,797 — — — — 1,797
Lapsed/vested shares — — — (3,355) — — — 2,028 (1,327)
Shares transferred from employee 
benefit trusts — — — — 1,208 — — — 1,208
Dividends paid to shareholders — — — — — — — (4,018) (4,018)
Recycling of merger reserve — — (26,830) — — — — 26,830 —
Balance at 31 December 2015 84,538 82,664 5,683 4,179 (1,855) 17,291 6,082 (69,276) 129,306 Financials
70
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets and goodwill 10 148,387 258,542
Property, plant and equipment 11 1,996 2,747
Investments 12 711 727
Deferred tax assets 15 14,448 14,722
Total non-current assets 165,542 276,738
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 13 29,115 62,901
Current tax receivables 15 1,096 2,136
Cash and cash equivalents 22 15,478 24,920
Assets held for sale 27 91,785 —
Total current assets 137,474 89,957
Total assets 303,016 366,695
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 16 (68,294) —
Trade and other payables 14 (39,875) (71,073)
Current tax liabilities 15 (4,020) (7,643)
Liabilities held for sale 27 (33,105) —
Total current liabilities (145,294) (78,716)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (7,820) 11,241
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 16 — (58,521)
Retirement benefit obligations 17 (21,781) (22,920)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (5,413) (3,956)
Long-term provisions 18 (1,222) (4,917)
Total non-current liabilities (28,416) (90,314)
Total liabilities (173,710) (169,030)
Net assets 129,306 197,665
Equity
Share capital 19 84,538 84,518
Share premium account 82,664 82,362
Merger reserve 20 5,683 32,513
Share compensation reserve 4,179 5,737
Shares held by employee benefit trusts (1,855) (3,063)
Translation reserve 17,291 19,029
Other reserves 20 6,082 6,082
Retained earnings (69,276) (29,513)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 129,306 197,665
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 March 2016. They were signed on its behalf by:
Chris Povey
Director
Group balance sheet
as at 31 December 2015 Governance Financials Strategic report
71
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 22 909 13,088
Investing activities
Interest received 36 69
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (577) (849)
Purchases of intangible assets (467) (252)
Purchase of financial assets — (87)
Disposal of financial assets 36 1,674
Acquisitions 28 (316) (600)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,288) (45)
Financing activities
Interest paid (2,589) (1,957)
Dividends paid (4,000) (4,088)
Proceeds from borrowings 48,574 28,049
Repayment of borrowings (38,357) (23,406)
Purchase of own shares — (1,014)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 3,628 (2,416)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,249 10,627
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 24,920 14,669
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (7,432) (376)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 22 20,737 24,920 Financials
72
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 12 144
Property, plant and equipment 11 136 348
Investments 12 164,775 235,745
Total non-current assets 164,923 236,237
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 13 43,044 25,717
Cash and cash equivalents 22 169 362
Total current assets 43,213 26,079
Total assets 208,136 262,316
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 16 (26,551) —
Trade and other payables 14 (20,901) (39,394)
Total current liabilities (47,452) (39,394)
Net current liabilities (4,239) (13,315)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term provisions 18 (192) (2,139)
Total non-current liabilities (192) (2,139)
Total liabilities (47,644) (41,533)
Net assets 160,492 220,783
Equity
Share capital 19 84,538 84,518
Share premium account 82,664 82,362
Merger reserve 20 — 26,830
Share compensation reserve 4,179 5,737
Shares held by employee benefit trusts (1,855) (3,063)
Capital redemption reserve 1,186 1,186
Retained earnings 21 (10,220) 23,213
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 160,492 220,783
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 March 2016. They were signed on its behalf by:
Chris Povey Company number
Director  1000608
Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2015 Governance Financials Strategic report
73
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
Merger 
reserve 
£’000 
Share
compensation
reserve
£’000
Shares held
by employee 
 benefit trusts
 £’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
 £’000
Retained
earnings
 £’000 
 Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2014 84,504 82,040 26,830 6,239 (4,111) 1,186 25,766 222,454
Profit for the year — — — — — — 1,019 1,019
Shares issued 14 322 — — — — — 336
Share-based payments — — — 3,028 — — — 3,028
Lapsed/vested shares — — — (3,530) 2,005 — 412 (1,113)
Shares acquired by employee benefit trusts — — — — (1,015) — — (1,015)
Shares transferred from employee benefit trusts — — — — 58 — — 58
Dividends paid to shareholders — — — — — — (3,984) (3,984)
Balance at 31 December 2014 84,518 82,362 26,830 5,737 (3,063) 1,186 23,213 220,783
Loss for the year — — — — — — (58,252) (58,252)
Shares issued 20 302 — — — — — 322
Share-based payments — — — 1,797 — — — 1,797
Lapsed/vested shares — — — (3,355) — — 2,007 (1,348)
Shares transferred from employee benefit trusts — — — — 1,208 — — 1,208
Dividends paid to shareholders — — — — — — (4,018) (4,018)
Recycling of merger reserve — — (26,830) — — — 26,830 —
Balance at 31 December 2015 84,538 82,664 — 4,179 (1,855) 1,186 (10,220) 160,492 Financials
74
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 22 21,552 1,182
Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (54) (19)
Purchases of intangible assets — (5)
Cash advances (to)/from subsidiaries (45,252) 906
Net cash (used in)/raised from investing activities (45,306) 882
Financing activities
Interest paid (210) (219)
Dividends paid (4,000) (4,088)
Purchase of own shares — (1,014)
Proceeds from borrowings 26,132 —
Net cash raised from/(used in) financing activities 21,922 (5,321)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,832) (3,257)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 362 181
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1,639 3,438
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 22 169 362
Company cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Governance Financials Strategic report
75
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2015
1. General information
Management Consulting Group PLC (the “Company“) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. 
The address of the registered office is given on page 119. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activity are set out in note 3 
and in the Financial Review.
2. Significant accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in the current and preceding year in dealing with items which are considered 
material in relation to the financial statements.
(a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements of Management Consulting Group PLC and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS“). The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the European Union (“EU”) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards (“IAS“) regulation. 
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted by that Act, the Company 
has elected not to present its own income statement. Its separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are set out below. The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the parent company’s financial 
statements are the same as those adopted in the consolidated financial statements except that the parent company’s investments in subsidiaries 
are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and principal risks and uncertainties 
are described in the Financial Review and the Viability Statement. In addition, note 23 to the Group financial statements includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its 
exposures to liquidity risk and credit risk.
During 2015, the Group was financed by a multi-currency borrowing facility negotiated in December 2011 for up to £85m. The £85m facility 
was repaid in full in January 2016 from proceeds arising from the Disposal and terminated ahead of its July 2017 term date. The Group has a 
new working capital facility for up to £15m running to March 2019. The new working capital facility is subject to financial covenants starting on 
30 June 2016 and being measured quarterly thereafter. The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors its projected compliance 
with its banking covenants, which are reviewed by the Board. Forecasts are adjusted for reasonable sensitivities that address the principal risks 
and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed. Consideration is given to the potential actions available to management to mitigate the impact 
of one or more of these sensitivities, in particular the discretionary nature of a significant amount of cost incurred by the Group. 
The Board has concluded that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its new facility and remain covenant compliant for the 
foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements, and, accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year. Their adoption has not had any material 
impact on the disclosures or amounts reported in these financial statements.
Annual Improvements 2011 –2013 Cycle
IFRIC 21 Levies Financials
76
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(a) Basis of preparation continued
Adoption of new and revised standards continued
NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued 
but are not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 11 (amendments) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 
IAS 1 (amendments) Disclosure Initiative
IAS 19 (amendments) Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendments) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
IAS 16 and IAS 41 (amendments) Agriculture: Bearer Plants
IAS 27 (amendments) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendments) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 (amendments) Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption
Annual improvements 2010–2012 Cycle
Annual improvements 2012–2014 Cycle
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group 
in future periods, except as follows:
IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments, IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and 
related disclosures, and IFRS 16 will impact both the measurement and disclosure of the Group’s leases. 
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has 
been completed.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The discussion and analysis of the Group’s financial position and results are based on the consolidated financial statements which have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. The preparation of the financial statements requires the development of estimates and judgements that 
affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, revenues and costs and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date 
of the financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties and potentially result in materially 
different results under different assumptions and conditions. The Board considers that the Group’s critical accounting policies are limited to 
those described below. The Group’s management has discussed the development of the estimates and disclosures related to each of these 
matters with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts chargeable for services provided to third parties in the normal course of business. Revenue from services is 
recognised when the service is provided and the right to consideration earned. To the extent that a service has been provided to third parties 
but no billing made, the amount is recognised as revenue and recorded as accrued income. Revenue recognised in this manner is based on an 
assessment of the fair value of the services provided at the balance sheet date as proportion of the total value of the engagement. This assessment 
is an estimate which is based on the nature of the service supplied and the terms of the contract and is calculated with reference to time spent 
as a proportion of the total time required to complete the service. Costs are expensed as incurred except to the extent that they relate to future 
services that have not yet been rendered, in which case they are recognised as an asset provided that they are expected to be recovered. 
Any significant underestimation or over-estimation of amounts receivable could have a material effect on the Group’s financial position and 
results of operations. Billings made in advance of services being provided are recognised as deferred income. Governance Financials Strategic report
77
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(a) Basis of preparation continued
Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets
Under IFRS goodwill is capitalised and tested for impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with finite lives are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives. Changes in assumptions 
used in the Group’s impairment reviews or estimated useful economic lives could have a material effect on the presentation of the Group’s 
financial position and results of operations. Details of the impairment test calculations are set out in note 10.
Employee benefits
Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves judgements about uncertain events, including, but not limited to, discount 
rates, life expectancy, future pay inflation and expected healthcare trend rates. Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the Group’s 
defined benefit pension scheme and post-retirement plans are important to the recorded amount of the benefit expense in the income statement 
and the net liability recorded in the balance sheet. Actuarial valuations are carried out annually. These determine the expense recorded in the 
income statement, the net liability recognised in the balance sheet, and items to be recorded in the consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense. Details of the assumptions used are included in note 17 to the financial statements.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. 
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the 
income tax and deferred tax liabilities and assets in the period in which such determination is made. 
Provisions
The Group has onerous property leases which require judgement in terms of the provision being carried on the balance sheet. 
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
The Disposal and the recognition of assets held for sale at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell required judgement to be applied to 
both post-completion consideration and goodwill allocated to the disposal group. Due to the timing of the Disposal, post-closing consideration 
had not been finalised at the signing date and therefore the loss on Disposal reflects a best estimate of final proceeds based on the information 
available at 18 March 2016. Further information regarding the assumptions included in post-closing consideration are set out in note 27. 
With regard to the allocation of goodwill, the disposal group identified on 31 December 2015 represented only part of the Kurt Salmon 
consultancy division and therefore required Kurt Salmon goodwill to be partially allocated to the disposal group. As there is no prescribed 
allocation measures under IFRS, 2015 revenues have been used as an appropriate measure of relative value. Further details of the goodwill 
allocated to the disposal group are set out in note 10.
(b) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its “subsidiaries”) 
made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. This generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. 
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group 
controls another entity. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the Group income statement from 
or to the effective date of acquisition or Disposal, respectively. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries 
to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group. In the income statement the results of subsidiaries acquired during the 
period are classified as part of continuing operations from the date control is achieved. The results of subsidiaries that are disposed of during 
the period are classified within discontinued operations in the income statement.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. Financials
78
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(c) Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is the aggregate of the fair values, at 
the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except 
for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for resale which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to 
sell. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Where applicable the consideration for the acquisition includes any 
asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in such 
fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent 
changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS. 
The measurement period is the period from acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that 
existed as at the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year. 
(d) Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the 
recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity. If, after reassessment, the Group’s 
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, 
the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently 
when there is indication of impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not 
reversed in a subsequent period. On Disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit 
or loss on Disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to equity prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included 
in determining any subsequent profit or loss and Disposal.
(e) Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets (e.g. customer relationships, trademarks, licences) are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
useful economic lives. Purchased computer software licences are capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire 
and bring into use the specific software. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which do not exceed 
three years. Costs associated with developing software are capitalised as intangible assets when they are separable or arise from contractual 
or other legal rights. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. All other 
intangible assets are amortised from three years to a maximum of ten years depending on useful economic life.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged 
so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, less estimated residual value, by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives of 
between three and seven years.
(g) Leasehold improvements
Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the 
related lease.
(h) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes 
in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised 
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped by cash-generating units.
For goodwill Alexander Proudfoot and Kurt Salmon are treated as separate cash-generating units.
(i) Dividend distribution
Dividends to holders of common shares are recognised as a liability in the Group and parent company’s financial statements in the period 
in which the shareholders’ right to receive payment has been established. For interim dividends the shareholders’ right to receive payment 
is the same as the date of payment. For final dividends the shareholders have a right to receive payment once the proposed dividend has 
been approved by the Board. Governance Financials Strategic report
79
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, demand deposits and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, which are held for short-term cash 
investment purposes.
(k) Financial liabilities
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the balance sheet date.
(l) T axation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for 
the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years or are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which such differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred 
tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates which are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. Deferred 
tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in reserves.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
(m) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best 
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
(n) Own shares
The Company shares held by the employee benefit trusts established in respect of certain share-based awards are presented as a reduction of equity.
(o) Investments
The Group’s financial assets are classified as either at fair value through profit and loss (“FVTPL”) or available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets, 
depending on the nature and purpose of the financial assets, which is determined at the time of original recognition. Financial assets at FVTPL 
are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. AFS financial assets are measured at fair value and changes 
therein, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on AFS monetary items, are recognised directly in equity. When 
an AFS investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
The investments in the parent company balance sheet represent equity holdings in subsidiary companies. These are carried at cost less 
impaired amounts.
(p) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces 
the carrying amount to its recoverable amount. Financials
80
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(q) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
(r) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(s) Retirement benefit costs
For defined contribution pension schemes, the amount charged to the income statement represents the contributions payable in the period. 
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the 
balance sheet.
For the defined benefit schemes, the amounts charged to the income statement are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements 
and curtailments. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the benefits have vested. If the benefits have not 
vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs. The interest cost is calculated by applying a discount rate to 
the net defined liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income. The US defined benefit pension 
scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group in separate trustee administered funds. Pension 
scheme assets are measured at fair value. Liabilities in relation to the defined benefit schemes are measured on an actuarial basis using the 
projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency 
and term to the scheme liabilities. Actuarial valuations are obtained at each balance sheet date. The resulting defined benefit asset or liability 
is presented on the face of the balance sheet.
(t) Share-based payments
Share awards are made to selected employees on a discretionary basis. Awards are measured at their fair value (which is measured using the 
stochastic pricing model at the date of grant) and are recognised as an employee benefits expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions, with a 
corresponding increase in the share compensation reserve. The expected life used in the valuation model has been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. The proceeds received net of any directly 
attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (in respect of the nominal value) and share premium (in respect of the balance) when 
the options are exercised. Where options do not vest, a transfer is made from the share compensation reserve to retained earnings.
(u) Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are drawn up in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are 
expressed in Sterling, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. In preparing the financial statements, transactions in 
currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, 
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items 
carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was 
determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign company are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement and retranslation of monetary items are included in the income statement for the period. 
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the 
period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly 
in equity. For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations (including comparatives) 
are expressed in Sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items (including comparatives) are 
translated at the average exchange rate for the period unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the 
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. Governance Financials Strategic report
81
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
2. Significant accounting policies continued
(v) Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items are those significant credits or charges which, in the opinion of the directors, should be separately disclosed by virtue of 
their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Transactions that may give rise to non-recurring items 
include charges for impairment, restructuring costs, acquisition costs, discontinued operations and profits/losses on Disposal of subsidiaries.
(w) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather 
than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which represents a significant separate line of business, either through its activity 
or geographical area of operation, which has been sold, is held for sale or has been closed.
3. Operating segments
The Group’s operating segments are defined as the two professional services practices, Alexander Proudfoot and Kurt Salmon. This is the basis 
on which information is provided to the Board of Directors for the purposes of allocating certain resources within the Group and assessing the 
performance of the business. All revenues are derived from the provision of professional services.
Inter-segmental sales are not significant.
(a) Geographical analysis
The Group operates in three geographical areas: the Americas, Europe and the Rest of the World. The following is an analysis of financial 
information by geographic segment:
(i) Revenue and underlying operating profit by geography
Year ended 31 December 2015
Americas
£’000
Europe
£’000
Rest of
the World
£’000
Group
£’000
Revenue – continuing operations 96,512 26,455 15,961 138,928
Profit/(loss) from operations before non-recurring expenses and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles 3,635 (259) (2,607) 769
Non-recurring expenses and amortisation of acquired intangibles (729) (15) (78) (822)
Profit/(loss) from operations 2,906 (274) (2,685) (53)
Investment revenue 13
Finance costs (3,682)
Loss before tax (3,722)
Year ended 31 December 2014 – restated
Americas
£’000
Europe
£’000
Rest of
the World
£’000
Group
£’000
Revenue – continuing operations 93,531 32,811 19,517 145,859
Profit/(loss) from operations before non-recurring expenses and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles 4,160 3,679 (178) 7,661
Non-recurring (expenses)/income and amortisation of acquired intangibles (2,678) (1,322) 678 (3,322)
Profit from operations 1,482 2,357 500 4,339
Investment revenue 32
Finance costs (1,577)
Profit before tax 2,794 Financials
82
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
3. Operating segments continued
(a) Geographical analysis continued
(ii) Net assets by geography
At 31 December 2015
Americas
£’000
Europe
£’000
Rest of
the World
£’000
Group
£’000
Assets
Intangibles, including goodwill 120,529 24,173 3,685 148,387
Other segment assets 34,990 16,099 2,944 54,033
Total assets allocated to segments 155,519 40,272 6,629 202,420
Unallocated corporate assets 8,811
Assets held for sale 91,785
Consolidated total assets 303,016
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (41,296) (52,259) (4,515) (98,070)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (42,535)
Liabilities held for sale (33,105)
Consolidated total liabilities (173,710)
Net assets 129,306
At 31 December 2014
Americas
£’000
Europe
£’000
Rest of
the World
£’000
Group
£’000
Assets
Intangibles, including goodwill 115,286 139,964 3,292 258,542
Other segment assets 46,905 55,144 4,325 106,374
Total assets allocated to segments 162,191 195,108 7,617 364,916
Unallocated corporate assets 1,779
Consolidated total assets 366,695
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (75,478) (85,693) (5,461) (166,632)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (2,398)
Consolidated total liabilities (169,030)
Net assets 197,665 Governance Financials Strategic report
83
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
3. Operating segments continued
(b) Revenue and underlying operating profit by operating segment
The two operating segments are combined into one reportable segment owing to similar underlying economic characteristics across the practices.
Not all significant non-recurring items and financial items can be allocated to the practices and are therefore disclosed for the reportable segment 
as a whole. Assets and liabilities by practice are not reviewed by the Board and are therefore not disclosed.
Year ended 31 December 2015
Alexander
Proudfoot
£’000
Kurt 
Salmon
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue – continuing operations 50,151 88,777 138,928
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (5,286) 6,055 769
Non-recurring expenses and amortisation of acquired intangibles (822)
Operating loss (53)
Investment revenue 13
Finance costs (3,682)
Loss before tax (3,722)
Year ended 31 December 2014 – restated
Alexander
Proudfoot
£’000
Kurt 
Salmon
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue – continuing operations 60,884 84,975 145,859
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (1,620) 9,281 7,661
Non-recurring expenses and amortisation of acquired intangibles (3,322)
Operating profit 4,339
Investment revenue 32
Finance costs (1,577)
Profit before tax 2,794
4. (Loss)/profit before tax
(Loss)/profit before tax has been arrived at after charging/(crediting) the following:
Note
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
restated
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (238) 18
Amortisation of intangible assets 3 1,753 1,926
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3 728 668
Gain on Disposal of fixed assets (7) (341)
Non-recurring items (net) 253 2,536
Staff costs 5 88,743 84,710
The £0.2m of non-recurring expenses in 2015 comprise £1.1m of restructuring related redundancy costs, principally in Alexander Proudfoot, 
offset by the release of £0.9m property provisions as a result of the Group rationalising its office accommodation in London and Atlanta.
The £2.5m of non-recurring expenses in 2014 comprised restructuring costs in Alexander Proudfoot. Financials
84
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
4. (Loss)/profit before tax continued
A detailed analysis of the auditor’s remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Auditor’s remuneration 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 47 43
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services to the Group –  
the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 403 358
Total audit fees 450 401
Taxation compliance services 209 267
Taxation advisory services 128 150
Other non-audit services* 211 35
Total non-audit fees 548 452
Total auditor’s remuneration 998 853
* Other non-audit services include a fee of £185,000 for reporting accountants work performed in respect of the Disposal.
A description of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee and includes an explanation 
of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor. 
5. Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including executive directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
2015
Number 
2014
Number 
re-presented
Sales and marketing 81 100
Consultants 540 469
Support staff 144 174
Continuing activities 765 743
Discontinued operations 762 761
Total 1,527 1,504
The number of Group employees at the year end was 1,526 with 748 being employed by continuing operations (2014: 1,509). 
The aggregate payroll costs for the employees of the continuing operations were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
restated
Wages and salaries 77,324 75,790
Social security costs 6,566 5,138
Other pension costs 4,853 3,782
88,743 84,710
A charge of £314,000 (2014: £283,000) is included in the operating results in respect of the current service cost of the German retirement 
benefit obligations (see note 17). 
The average number of Company employees for the year was 19 (2014: 21). The payroll costs of the Company were £2,121,519 (2014: £2,972,000) 
for wages and salaries, £238,382 (2014: £297,000) for social security costs and £180,400 (2014: £217,000) for pension costs. 
6a. Investment revenues
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
restated
Interest receivable on bank deposits and similar income 13 32 Governance Financials Strategic report
85
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
6b. Finance costs
Note
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
restated
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans and similar charges 1,982 801
Finance costs on retirement benefit plans 17 1,700 776
3,682 1,577
7. Tax 
2015 2014
Recognised in the income statement: 
Income tax expense on continuing operations
Before 
non-
underlying
 items 
£’000
Non-
underlying 
items 
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Before 
non-
underlying
items 
£’000
restated
Non-
underlying
items
£’000
restated
Total 
£’000 
restated
Current tax
Current year 3,332 (157) 3,175 5,121 (777) 4,344
Adjustment in respect of prior years (361) — (361) (1,708) (606) (2,314)
Current tax expense/(credit) 2,971 (157) 2,814 3,413 (1,383) 2,030
Deferred tax
Current year 3,665 (216) 3,449 4,337 (299) 4,038
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2,239) — (2,239) (1,214) — (1,214)
Deferred tax expense/(credit) 1,426 (216) 1,210 3,123 (299) 2,824
Total income tax
Income tax expense/(credit) on continuing activities 4,397 (373) 4,024 6,536 (1,682) 4,854
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.25% (2014: 21.50%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the pre-tax profit from continuing operations per the income statement as follows:
2015 2014
Before 
non-
underlying
 items 
£’000
Non-
underlying 
items 
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Before 
non-
underlying
items 
£’000
restated
Non-
underlying
items
£’000
restated
Total 
£’000 
restated
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (2,900) (822) (3,722) 6,116 (3,322) 2,794
Notional income tax expense at the effective UK tax rate of 20.25% 
(2014: 21.50%) (588) (166) (754) 1,315 (715) 600
Unrelieved current year tax losses 3,768 (66) 3,702 2,348 — 2,348
Irrecoverable withholding tax 1,247 — 1,247 1,559 — 1,559
Effects of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 2,664 27 2,691 1,156 (87) 1,069
Losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised (2,815) — (2,815) (63) — (63)
Permanent differences 2,721 (168) 2,553 3,143 (274) 2,869
Relating to prior years (2,600) — (2,600) (2,922) (606) (3,528)
Income tax expense/(credit) on continuing operations 4,397 (373) 4,024 6,536 (1,682) 4,854
Effective tax rate for the year (152%) (105%) 107% 174% Financials
86
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
7. Tax continued
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Tax credited to other comprehensive income
Current and deferred tax credits on actuarial and other movements on post-employment benefits 306 594
Tax credit on items recognised in other comprehensive income 306 594
No amounts have been directly charged/(credited) to equity in either the current or prior year.
8. Dividends
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 0.595p per share (2013: 0.595p) 2,902 2,873
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 0.23p per share (2013: 0.23p) 1,116 1,111
4,018 3,984
Dividends are not payable on shares held in the employee share trust, which has waived its entitlement to dividends. The amount of the dividend 
waived in 2015 in respect of the interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the final dividend for year ended 31 December 2014 
was £24,199 and £49,178 respectively (2014: £29,783 and £77,660).
The Board announced on 23 November 2015 that no interim dividend for 2015 would be paid in January 2016, given the likely accounting 
impact of the impairment of investments as a result of the Disposal on the Company’s distributable reserves. The Board has reviewed the 
position following the completion of the transaction and during preparation of the financial statements for 2015 and considers that it remains 
likely that it will seek to implement a reconstruction of reserves before dividend payments are resumed.
9. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
2015
2014
re-presented
Earnings
All
£’000 
Continuing
£’000
Discontinued
£’000
All
£’000 
Continuing
£’000
Discontinued
£’000
(Loss)/profit for the period (65,548) (7,746) (57,802) (962) (2,060)  1,098 
Add back: non-recurring items 6,825  253  6,572  2,912 2,536 376
Add back amortisation of acquired intangibles 569  569  —  786 786 — 
Add back loss on Disposal 53,372 — 53,372  —  —  — 
Reduction in tax charge due to add backs (642) (373) (269) (1,812) (1,671) (141) 
Underlying profit/(loss) for the period (5,424) (7,297) 1,873  924 (409) 1,333
Number of shares
2015
Number 
million 
2014
Number
million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes 
of basic earnings per share, and basic excluding non-recurring items 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles 492 485
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Restricted share plan 13 8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes 
of diluted earnings per share 505 493 Governance Financials Strategic report
87
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
9. Earnings per share continued
2015
2014
re-presented
(Loss)/earnings per share
All
Pence
Continuing
Pence
Discontinued
Pence
All
Pence
Continuing
Pence
Discontinued
Pence
Basic (loss)/profit per share for the year attributable  
to the owners of the Company (13.3) (1.6) (11.7) (0.2) (0.4) 0.2 
Diluted (loss)/profit per share for the year attributable  
to the owners of the Company (13.3) (1.6) (11.7) (0.2) (0.4) 0.2 
Basic (loss)/profit per share – excluding non-recurring items  
and amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.1) (1.5)  0.4  0.2 (0.1) 0.3 
Diluted (loss)/profit per share – excluding non-recurring items  
and amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.1) (1.5) 0.4  0.2 (0.1) 0.3 
The average share price for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 15.6p (2014: 23.0p).
The weighted average number of the Company’s ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted loss per share in 2015 includes rights over 
12,853,033 ordinary shares (2014: 7,535,929).
10. Intangible assets and goodwill
Group Note
Goodwill 
£’000 
Customer
relationships
£’000 
 Software 
costs 
£’000
Total
intangibles
 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 253,195 18,961 10,758 282,914
Acquisitions 28 638 — — 638
Transferred to assets held for sale 27 (52,840) — (4,356) (57,196)
Additions — — 425 425
Disposals — — (174) (174)
Exchange differences (3,292) (170) 61 (3,401)
At 31 December 2015 197,701 18,791 6,714 223,206
Amortisation
At 1 January 2015 — 17,337 7,035 24,372
Charge for the year — 569 1,224 1,793
Impairment charge recognised on 
classification to assets held for sale 53,372 — — 53,372
Transferred to assets held for sale 27 — — (4,326) (4,326)
Category transfer — — 82 82
Disposals — — (178) (178)
Exchange differences — (195) (101) (296)
At 31 December 2015 53,372 17,711 3,736 74,819
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 144,329 1,080 2,978 148,387
At 31 December 2014 253,195 1,624 3,723 258,542 Financials
88
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
10. Intangible assets and goodwill continued
Company
Software 
costs
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2015 873
At 31 December 2015 873
Amortisation
At 1 January 2015 729
Charge for the year 132
At 31 December 2015 861
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 12
At 31 December 2014 144
Group
Goodwill 
£’000 
Customer
relationships
£’000 
 Software 
costs 
£’000
Total
intangibles
 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 259,903 19,083 11,591 290,577
Additions — — 252 252
Disposals — — (1,092) (1,092)
Exchange differences (6,708) (122) 7 (6,823)
At 31 December 2014 253,195 18,961 10,758 282,914
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 — 16,631 7,140 23,771
Charge for the year — 786 1,254 2,040
Disposals — — (1,092) (1,092)
Exchange differences — (80) (267) (347)
At 31 December 2014 — 17,337 7,035 24,372
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2014 253,195 1,624 3,723 258,542
At 31 December 2013 259,903 2,452 4,451 266,806
Company
Software 
costs
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2014 868
Additions 5
At 31 December 2014 873
Amortisation
At 1 January 2014 612
Charge for the year 117
At 31 December 2014 729
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 144
At 31 December 2013 256 Governance Financials Strategic report
89
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
10. Intangible assets and goodwill continued
Analysis of goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units (“CGUs“) that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
Kurt Salmon
£’000
Alexander Proudfoot
£’000
Total
 £’000
As at 1 January 2015 210,568 42,627 253,195
Impairment charge recognised on classification to assets held for sale (53,372) — (53,372)
Transferred to assets held for sale (52,840) — (52,840)
Additions 638 — 638
Translation (771) (2,521) (3,292)
As at 31 December 2015 104,223 40,106 144,329
As at 31 December 2015, Kurt Salmon goodwill was allocated between Kurt Salmon France and related operations (the “disposal group”) and 
the retained Kurt Salmon business on a revenue basis. The £106.2m of goodwill allocated to disposal group was immediately tested for impairment 
ahead of the transfer to assets held for sale and a charge of £53.4m recognised, representing the difference between allocated net assets 
(including goodwill) and estimated post-closing consideration net of transaction fees. The remaining £52.8m of goodwill attributed to the 
disposal group has been transferred from goodwill to assets held for sale in the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2015.
The Group tested the £144.3m of retained goodwill for impairment by determining the recoverable amount of each CGU from value-in-use 
calculations. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes 
to EBITA during the period. 
Management estimates discount rates using post-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
and tax rates specific to the CGU. Goodwill is tested against the value in use of operating segments on the basis that, given the integrated 
nature of the segments, it cannot be reasonably allocated to a lower level of CGU.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts based on the most recent financial budgets. The budgets were prepared on a bottom-up basis, taking 
into account market and economic factors specific to the geographies and practices of the divisions and have been approved by the Board. 
The key assumptions underlying the forecasts are revenue and EBITA. EBITA is deemed to be a reasonable proxy for cash.
The cash flow forecast for Kurt Salmon assumes some revenue growth in 2016. EBITA margins are assumed to improve in 2016 with growth 
arising from North America following a weaker margin in 2015 due to the impact of recruitment.
The cash flow forecast for Alexander Proudfoot assumes revenue growth in 2016 together with a corresponding EBITA margin improvement 
reflecting some recovery in performance. 
Assumed EBITA margins for both CGUs are consistent with past experience and industry norms.
For longer term financial projections, cash flows for are extrapolated based on long-term average growth rates, which for Kurt Salmon is a rate 
of 1.8% (2014: 1.8%) for the European region and 1.9% (2014: 1.9%) for the Americas region and for Alexander Proudfoot is 2.5% (2014: 1.6%) 
for Europe and 2.0% (2014: 1.9%) for the Americas regions. 
The rates used to discount the forecast post-tax cash flows for each CGU are 8.81% (2014: 8.54%) for Kurt Salmon and 9.97% (2014: 9.29%) 
for Alexander Proudfoot. CGU discount rates are based on the relevant regional weighted average cost of capital.
Following the 2015 impairment review management has concluded that the recoverable amounts for both the Alexander Proudfoot and the 
Kurt Salmon CGUs exceeded carrying value. However, the headroom in relation to the Alexander Proudfoot CGU has reduced significantly 
in recent years and sensitivity analysis on key assumptions included in the impairment review indicates that a reasonably possible change 
in key assumptions over the course of the next year could result in the recoverable amount falling to a level close to but above the carrying 
value at 31 December 2015. Additionally, the Board considers there are further steps that could be taken to improve performance in such 
a scenario. The carrying value of the Kurt Salmon CGU also remained satisfactory having taken into account reasonably possible changes 
in key assumptions. Financials
90
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
11. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 
Group 
£’000
Company
 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 8,246 1,851
Additions 580 53
Disposals (145) —
Transfer to assets held for sale (2,243) —
Exchange differences (130) —
At 31 December 2015 6,308 1,904
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 5,499 1,503
Charge for the year 861 108
Exceptional impairment 161 157
Transfer to assets held for sale (1,848) —
Category transfer (82) —
Exchange differences (142) —
Disposals (137) —
At 31 December 2015 4,312 1,768
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2015 1,996 136
At 31 December 2014 2,747 348
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 
Group 
£’000
Company
 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 8,100 1,832
Additions 907 19
Exchange differences (69) —
Disposals (692) —
At 31 December 2014 8,246 1,851
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2014 5,376 1,357
Charge for the year 830 146
Exchange differences (89) —
Disposals (618) —
At 31 December 2014 5,499 1,503
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2014 2,747 348
At 31 December 2013 2,724 475 Governance Financials Strategic report
91
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
12. Investments
Group 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015 727 2,444
Additions 1 89
Disposals (35) (1,715)
Exchange differences 18 (91)
At 31 December 2015 711 727
The fair values above are based on the reports received at the balance sheet date from independent investment advisers. 
Financial assets primarily comprise investments in corporate securities. The main risk associated with these investments is the risk of changes 
in market value. Investment performance is regularly monitored and, where appropriate, professional advice is obtained.
Company 
Shares
£’000 
 Loans 
£’000 
Total
£’000
Investment in Group companies
At 1 January 2014 235,423 564 235,987
Addition 322 — 322
Repayment of loans — (564) (564)
At 31 December 2014 235,745 — 235,745
Impairment (70,970) — (70,970)
At 31 December 2015 164,775 — 164,775
Shares are stated net of provisions of £5,970,000 (2014: £5,970,000) against impairment in value. The impairment charge recognised in the year 
relates to the write-down of investments to their recoverable amount. Additions in the prior year reflect increased investments in intermediate 
holding companies.
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are set out in note 26.
13. Trade and other receivables
 
Group Company
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Trade receivables – gross 17,735 42,419 — —
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,022) (1,764) — —
Trade receivables – net 16,713 40,655 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings — — 42,646 23,741
Other receivables 3,877 4,965 129 717
Accrued income 5,727 15,210 — —
Prepayments 2,798 2,071 269 1,259
 29,115 62,901 43,044 25,717
Debtor days at the year end were 44 days (2014: 49 days). No interest was charged on receivables. The directors consider that the carrying 
value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value (see note 23).  Financials
92
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
14. Trade and other payables
 
Group Company
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Trade payables 1,608 4,263 917 873
Amounts owed to Group undertakings — — 14,219 33,592
Other taxes and social security 5,848 18,033 937 1,660
Other payables 3,712 2,032 262 169
Deferred income 2,965 8,223 — —
Accruals 25,742 38,522 4,566 3,100
 39,875 71,073 20,901 39,394
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 53 days (2014: 53 days). The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value 
(see note 23). 
15. Tax assets and liabilities
 
Group Company
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Current tax
Current tax receivable 1,096 2,136 — —
Current tax liabilities (4,020) (7,643) — —
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current year:
Group
Pension 
funds and 
retirement 
provision
£’000
Tax 
losses
£’000
FTCs
£’000
Arising on
 acquisitions 
– intangibles
£’000
Goodwill
£’000
Net 
short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£’000
Total
£’000
Net deferred tax
At 1 January 2014 6,075 6,883 — (1,414) (2,350) 3,528 12,722
Foreign exchange 84 238 — (61) (158) 171 274
Recognised in Group statement of comprehensive income 594 — — — — — 594
Credited/(charged) to Group income statement 180 (2,736) — 367 (340) (295) (2,824)
At 31 December 2014 6,933 4,385 — (1,108) (2,848) 3,404 10,766
Transferred to assets held for sale (380) (1,061) — — — — (1,442)
Foreign exchange 443 116 92 (47) (175) 185 615
Reclassification — — — — (110) 110 —
Recognised in Group statement of comprehensive income 306 — — — — — 306
Recognised direct to equity — — — — — — —
(Charged)/credited to Group income statement (461) (2,355) 2,446 400 (276) (964) (1,210)
At 31 December 2015 6,841 1,085 2,538 (755) (3,409) 2,735 9,035
Group
31 December
2015
£’000
31 December
2014
£’000
Deferred tax assets 14,448 14,722
Deferred tax liabilities (5,413) (3,956)
Total 9,035 10,766 Governance Financials Strategic report
93
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
15. Tax assets and liabilities continued
At 31 December 2015 the Group recognised deferred tax assets totalling £14.4m (2014: £14.7m), of which £1.1m (2014: £3.8m) are in respect 
of US tax losses, £11.3m (2014: £8.7m) are in respect of other temporary differences relating to the US and £2.0m (2014: £2.2m) in respect of 
other temporary differences relating to non-US jurisdictions. The Group believes there will be sufficient future taxable profits to utilise these tax 
losses and the deductions arising from the reversal of these other deferred tax assets. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 
non-US tax losses.
At 31 December 2015 the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets totalling £26.1m (2014: £25.0m), of which £4.9m (2014: £6.0m) are in 
respect of US tax losses, £20.5m (2014: £17.9m) are in respect of non-US losses and £0.7m (2014: £1.1m) are in respect of temporary differences 
other than losses. Based on the current tax rules in the respective jurisdictions, the gross non-US losses of £90.6m are expected to expire as 
follows: £9.2m by the end of 2018, £2.1m by the end of 2023, £1.2m by the end of 2033, with the remaining £78.1m being carried forward 
indefinitely. The losses may be subject to adjustment on tax audit and it is uncertain if there will be sufficient future profits against which the 
losses can be offset.
No deferred tax liability is recognised in relation to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences which would give rise to the liability and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The unrecognised deferred tax liability at 31 December 2015 of £1.5m (2014: £1.5m) is in respect of the unremitted earnings of those 
overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings would still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of tax due in overseas 
intermediate holding companies and dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Company
The Company did not recognise deferred tax assets or liabilities in either 2015 or 2014.
16. Bank borrowings
Group
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Current: bank borrowings 68,294 —
Non-current: bank borrowings — 58,521
Total borrowings 68,294 58,521
In December 2011 the Group put in place a fully revolving borrowing facility for up to £85m which runs until July 2017. Under the £85m facility 
borrowings bear interest at a margin of 2.25% to 3.25% over US Dollar Libor, Euribor and Sterling Libor annually. This facility was terminated 
upon completion of the Disposal but was immediately replaced by a £15m three year working capital facility. 
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Six months or less 68,294 —
In the first to second year — 58,521
Total 68,294 58,521
The exposure of the Group’s borrowings to interest rate changes at the balance sheet dates is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Six months or less 68,294 58,521
The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying 
amount
2015
£’000
 Fair
value 
2015
£’000
Carrying
 amount 
2014
£’000 
 Fair
value
2014
 £’000
Bank borrowings 68,294 68,294 58,521 55,740
The carrying value of the loans held at 31 December 2015 is equal to the fair value on the basis the loans were repaid in full in January 2016. 
For 2014 the fair values for non-current borrowings are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the following borrowing rate 
of 2.89% for Euro and 3.11% for US Dollar.  Financials
94
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
16. Bank borrowings continued
Group continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
Currency
2015
 £’000 
2014
£’000
Euro 64,902 35,648
US Dollar 3,392 22,873
 68,294 58,521
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2015
 £’000 
2014
£’000
Floating rate 16,138 25,259
Company 
The Company is party to the Group borrowing facility of £85m.
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Current: bank borrowings 26,551 —
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Six months or less 26,551 —
The exposure of the Company’s borrowings to interest rate changes at the balance sheet dates is as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
 £’000
Six months or less 26,551 —
The carrying amounts and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying 
amount
2015
£’000
 Fair
value 
2015
£’000
Carrying
 amount 
2014
£’000 
 Fair
value
2014
 £’000
Bank borrowings 26,551 26,551 — —
The carrying value of the loans held at 31 December 2015 is equal to the fair value on the basis the loans were repaid in full in January 2016.
The carrying amounts of the Company’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
Currency
2015
 £’000 
2014
£’000
Euro 26,551 —
The Company has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2015
 £’000 
2014
£’000
Floating rate 16,138 — Governance Financials Strategic report
95
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes throughout the world. The total cost charged to income in respect 
of defined contribution schemes was £4,854,000 (2014: £3,782,000), representing contributions payable to these schemes by the continuing 
Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit schemes
In the US the Group operates a closed defined benefit pension scheme and a closed unfunded plan which provides benefits in respect of 
post-retirement medical costs. In France, the Group has two statutory unfunded post-retirement benefit obligation. In Germany, the Group 
has an unfunded post-retirement benefit obligation and, in the UK, a funded pension scheme, which is defined contribution with defined 
benefit underpin; both plans are closed to new employees. Actuarial valuations are obtained annually from independent qualified actuaries 
for each of the defined benefit arrangements.
The retirement benefit obligations are summarised below:
Note
2015
 £’000 
2014
£’000
re-presented
US defined benefit pension scheme (9,560) (8,340)
US post-retirement medical plan (2,415) (2,499)
Proudfoot’s French statutory obligation (319) (312)
German obligation (9,487) (9,580)
UK defined benefit pension scheme — —
Continuing schemes (21,781) (20,731)
Kurt Salmon’s French statutory obligation 27 (2,188) (2,189)
All schemes (23,969) (22,920)
Kurt Salmon’s French statutory obligation has been treated as a liability held for sale as at 31 December 2015. The comparative balance has 
been disclosed as a retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2014.
US schemes
The funded US defined benefits pension scheme was closed to new entrants with effect from 1 February 2001 and further benefit accruals ceased 
for all members with effect from 31 December 2001. The US defined benefit scheme was amended in 2015 to allow certain terminated vested 
participant a one-time offer to elect a lump sum payment of their full pension benefit. There were no changes in plan provisions since the 
prior measurement date on 31 December 2014. The US medical benefits plan applies only to certain former employees who retired prior to 
30 September 1995 and to the post-retirement medical costs of a small number of current and former employees who were employed at that date.
The principal assumptions used for the recent actuarial valuations were:
2015 2014
Discount rate 4.25% 3.99%
General inflation assumption n/a n/a
Mortality table RP 2014 (scale: MP2015) RP 2014 (scale: MP2014)
There are neither guaranteed nor discretionary increases to benefits after retirement. Expected pension contributions for 2016 are £nil (2015: £nil).
(A) COMPONENTS OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT
2015 2014
DB 
Scheme
£’000
Medical 
Scheme
£’000
Total
£’000
DB 
Scheme
£’000
Medical 
Scheme
£’000
Total
£’000
Service costs 130  —  130  169  —  169 
Effects of settlement 879  —  879  —  —  — 
Interest expense on plan obligations 2,361  96  2,457  2,471  97  2,568 
Interest income on plan assets (1,967) — (1,967) (2,241)  — (2,241)
Total charge to income statement 1,403  96  1,499  399  97  496 
All items charged to the income statement have been recognised as finance costs. Financials
96
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
US schemes continued
(B) COMPONENTS OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENT
2015 2014
DB 
Scheme
£’000
Medical 
Scheme
£’000
Total
£’000
DB 
Scheme
£’000
Medical 
Scheme
£’000
Total
£’000
Liability (gains)/losses due to changes in assumptions (2,305) (163) (2,468) 5,477 (571)  4,906
Liability experience gains arising in the year (182) (81) (263) (42) (352) (394)
Asset (gains)/losses arising during the year 1,813 — 1,813 (2,212) — (2,212)
Total (gain)/loss recognised in the  
other comprehensive income statement (674) (244) (918) 3,223 (923) 2,300
(C) THE AMOUNT INCLUDED IN THE BALANCE SHEET ARISING FROM THE GROUP’S OBLIGATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE US DEFINED 
BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME AND MEDICAL BENEFITS PLAN IS AS FOLLOWS:
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations 17(d) (52,552) (63,130)
Fair value of scheme assets 17(d) 40,577 52,291
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (11,975) (10,839)
Defined benefit pension scheme (9,560) (8,340)
Medical benefit plan (2,415) (2,499)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (11,975) (10,839)
(D) MOVEMENTS IN BALANCE SHEET AMOUNTS
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening defined benefit obligation (63,130) (55,418)
Interest cost (2,457) (2,568)
Service cost (130) (169)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 2,731 (4,511)
Contributions by participants (81) (75)
Exchange differences (3,002) (3,497)
Benefits paid 3,739 3,108
Settlements 9,778 —
Closing defined benefit obligation (52,552) (63,130)
Changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening fair value of plan assets 52,291 46,633
Expected return 1,967 2,241
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1,813) 2,212
Contributions by employer/participants — 1,275
Exchange differences 2,380 2,896
Benefits paid (3,590) (2,966)
Settlements (10,658) —
Closing fair value of plan assets 40,577 52,291
Net retirement benefit obligation (11,975) (10,839) Governance Financials Strategic report
97
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
US schemes continued
(E) THE FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT THE BALANCE SHEET DATE AND THE EXPECTED RATE OF RETURN ARE ANAL YSED AS FOLLOWS:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Equities 33,663 42,564
Bonds 6,518 9,439
Cash 396 288
 40,577 52,291
The expected rates of return are based on actuarial advice received.
(F) SENSITIVITIES ON KEY ASSUMPTIONS
US DB pension
A 1% decrease in the discount rate would increase the benefit obligation by £5,054,000.
Post retirement Medical Plan
A 1% decrease in the discount rate would increase the benefit obligation by £233,000.
A 1% increase in the assumed health care trend rate would increase the benefit obligation by £252,000.
(G) ESTIMATED FUTURE BENEFIT PAYMENTS
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
In one year 3,785 3,702
In two years 3,839 3,695
In three years 3,860 3,812
In four years 3,929 3,871
In five years 3,935 3,963
In six to ten years 18,554 20,442
French schemes
(H) UNFUNDED FRENCH RETIREMENT OBLIGATION
The principal assumptions used for the recent actuarial valuation of the French retirement scheme were:
2015 2014
Rate of increase in salaries 3–4% 3–4%
Discount rate 2.1% 1.7%
Mortality tables TPGFOS/TPGHOS TGH/TGFOS
There are neither guaranteed not discretionary increases to benefits after retirement.
(I) COMPONENTS OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Service costs 185 145 
Interest expense on plan obligations 39 52 
Total charge to income statement 224 197 
The interest expense arising in 2015 and 2014 has been recognised within discontinued operations as a finance cost. Financials
98
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
French schemes (Proudfoot and Kurt Salmon’s held for sale scheme) continued
(II) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENT
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Liability losses due to changes in assumptions 88 465 
Total loss recognised in the other comprehensive income statement 88 465 
(III) THE AMOUNT INCLUDED IN THE BALANCE SHEET ARISING FROM THE GROUP’S OBLIGATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE FRENCH 
POST ‑RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME IS AS FOLLOWS:
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (2,507) (2,501)
Fair value of scheme assets — —
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (2,507) (2,501)
(IV) MOVEMENTS IN BALANCE SHEET AMOUNTS
Changes in the present value of the French defined benefit obligation are as follows:
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening defined benefit obligation (2,501) (1,991)
Service cost (185) (145)
Actuarial loss (88) (465)
Employer contribution — 12
Interest cost (39) (52)
Foreign exchange difference 306 140
Closing defined benefit obligation (2,507) (2,501)
The French obligation is unfunded and holds no plan assets.
There are no experience adjustments in relation to the French post-retirement scheme in the period since acquisition.
(V) SENSITIVITIES ON KEY ASSUMPTIONS
A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the benefit obligation by £263,000.
German schemes
(I) UNFUNDED GERMAN RETIREMENT OBLIGATION
The principal assumptions used for the recent actuarial valuation of the German retirement scheme were:
 2015 2014
Rate of increase in salaries 4% 4%
Discount rate 2.2% 2.3%
Mortality table Heubeck 2005 G Heubeck 2005 G
There are neither guaranteed nor discretionary increases to benefits after retirement. Governance Financials Strategic report
99
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
German schemes continued
(II) COMPONENTS OF AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Service costs 314 283
Interest expense on plan obligations 201 280 
Total charge to the income statement 515 563
Service costs are reflected within administrative expenses and are disclosed within the staff cost note (note 5).
Interest expense on plan obligations are disclosed as a finance cost (note 6b).
(III) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENT
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Liability losses due to changes in assumptions 176 968
Liability experience losses arising in the year 15 95 
Total loss recognised in the other comprehensive income statement 191 1,063 
(IV) THE AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN THE BALANCE SHEET ARISING FROM THE GROUP’S OBLIGATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE GERMAN 
POST ‑RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (9,487) (9,580)
Fair value of scheme assets — —
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (9,487) (9,580)
(V) MOVEMENTS IN BALANCE SHEET AMOUNTS
Changes in the present value of the German defined benefit obligation are as follows:
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Opening defined benefit obligation (9,580) (8,806)
Service cost (314) (283)
Interest cost (201) (280)
Actuarial loss (190) (1,063)
Benefits paid 239 272
Foreign exchange difference 559 580
Closing defined benefit obligation (9,487) (9,580)
The German obligation is unfunded and therefore holds no plan assets and no contributions are made.
(VI) SENSITIVITIES ON KEY ASSUMPTIONS
A 0.25% increase in indexation would increase the benefit obligation by £308,000. Financials
100
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
German schemes continued
(VI) EXPECTED FUTURE PAYMENTS
Estimated future benefit payments:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
In one year 256  268 
In two years 260  263 
In three years 262  268 
In four years 269  267 
In five years 274  272 
In six to ten years 1,207  1,267 
UK schemes
(J) UK RETIREMENT OBLIGATION
The principal assumptions used for the recent actuarial valuation of the UK retirement scheme were:
2015 2014
Discount rate 3.7% 3.4%
Inflation 3.5% 2.9%
Mortality table 90% of S2PA 90% of S1PA
There are neither guaranteed nor discretionary increases to benefits after retirement.
(I) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN INCOME STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE UK POST ‑RETIREMENT SCHEME ARE AS FOLLOWS: 
Components of amounts recognised in the income statement:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Interest expense on plan liabilities 100 200
Interest income on plan assets (100) (200)
Total charge to the income statement —  — 
(II) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENT
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income statement:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Liability losses due to change in assumptions 100 300
Asset gains arising during the year (100) (200)
Total gain recognised in the other comprehensive income statement — 100 Governance Financials Strategic report
101
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
17. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
UK schemes continued
(III) THE AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN THE BALANCE SHEET ARISING FROM THE GROUP’S OBLIGATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE UK POST ‑ RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME ARE AS FOLLOWS:
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (4,700) (4,700)
Fair value of scheme assets 4,700 4,700
Asset recognised in the balance sheet — —
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Opening defined benefit obligation (4,700) (4,200)
Interest cost (100) (200)
Settlements 200 —
Actuarial loss (100) (300)
Closing defined benefit obligation (4,700) (4,700)
Changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows:
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Opening fair value of plan assets 4,700 4,300
Interest income 100 200
Settlements (200) —
Actuarial gain 100 200
Closing fair value of plan assets 4,700 4,700
The actual return on scheme assets was £200,000 (2014: £400,000).
The fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date and the expected rate of return are analysed as follows:
2015 2014
Expected return 
% £’000
 Expected return
 % £’000
Equities 3.7 4,700 3.4 4,700
The expected rates of return are based on actuarial advice received.
(IV) SENSITIVITIES ON KEY ASSUMPTIONS
A 0.5% decrease in the discount rate would increase the benefit obligation by £100,000.
A 0.5% increase in the rate of inflation would increase the benefit obligation by £100,000. Financials
102
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
18. Long-term provisions
 
Group Company
Property 
provision
£’000
Pensions
provision
£’000
Total
£’000
Property 
provision
£’000
At 1 January 2015 4,840 77 4,917 2,139
Utilised (1,040) (46) (1,086) (318)
Released (2,443) — (2,443) (1,629)
Transfer to liabilities held for sale (368) — (368) —
Foreign exchange movement 200 2 202 —
At 31 December 2015 1,189 33 1,222 192
 
Group Company
Property 
provision
£’000
Pensions
provision
£’000
Total
£’000
Property 
provision
£’000
At 1 January 2014 5,171 114 5,285 1,789
Utilised (1,336) (45) (1,381) (450)
Charge 800 — 800 800
Foreign exchange movement 205 8 213 —
At 31 December 2014 4,840 77 4,917 2,139
Provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to 2020 and are discounted if material.
19. Share capital
(a) Called up share capital
 
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Issued and fully paid 
500,427,971 (2014: 498,400,995) shares of 1p each 5,004 4,984
331,390,961 (2014: 331,390,961) deferred shares of 24p each 79,534 79,534
84,538 84,518
Shares issued in the year were:
24p shares
Number
1p shares
Number
Nominal
value
 £’000
At 1 January 2015 331,390,961 498,400,995 84,518
Issue of new shares — 2,026,976 20
At 31 December 2015 331,390,961 500,427,971 84,538
The Company has two classes of shares: 1p ordinary shares that carry no right to fixed income; and 24p deferred shares that (i) have no entitlement 
to any dividend, (ii) whose voting rights are restricted to matters in connection with a winding up of the Company or abrogation of rights attaching 
to deferred shares and (iii) whose entitlement to a return of capital on a winding up of the Company is limited to the amount paid up on the deferred 
shares up to a maximum of 24p per share but only after any and all ordinary shares then in issue shall have received payment in respect of such 
amount as is paid up or credited as paid up on those ordinary shares plus the payment in cash or specie of £10m for every 1p paid up or credited 
as paid up on those ordinary shares. 
A net expense of £1,155,000 (2014: £2,410,000) has been recognised in the year in respect of share awards. The cumulative share compensation 
reserve at 31 December 2015 is £4,190,000 (2014: £5,737,000). The weighted average fair value of awards granted in the year was 13.1p 
(2014: 23.5p).  Governance Financials Strategic report
103
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
19. Share capital continued
(b) Share awards 
Conditional awards
The Performance Share Plan was introduced during 2008. Any employee (including an executive director) of the Company and its subsidiaries 
is eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”).
The Committee may grant awards as conditional shares, a nil (or nominal) cost option with a short exercise period or as forfeitable shares. 
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash.
The vesting of awards is subject to performance conditions set by the Committee. Further details in respect of share awards made to directors can 
be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 57.
Number of shares
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 11,417,000
Forfeited during the year (1,403,000)
Lapsed during the year (7,450,000)
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 2,564,000
The performance conditions for conditional awards are either purely TSR based or a combination of share price performance and the achievement 
of other non-market based financial targets. The remaining awards are exercisable not earlier than April 2016.
The fair value of conditional awards was determined using the stochastic valuation model. Expected volatility was assessed by considering 
the historic volatility of the Company’s share price. 
Restricted awards
Share awards to employees other than directors may be made on a restricted basis. These awards are normally only subject to an employment 
condition and can be satisfied with either market purchase shares or from up to nine million of new shares following a shareholder resolution 
passed on 17 December 2015. Executive directors are not eligible to participate in restricted share plans. 
Number 
of shares
Weighted average
 exercise price
pence
Outstanding at 1 January 2015 24,130,249 0.0
Granted during the year 11,240,359 0.0
Forfeited during the year (1,275,489) 0.0
Satisfied during the year (5,166,870) 0.0
Outstanding at 31 December 2015 28,928,249 0.0
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 2,521,214 0.0
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share awards satisfied during the year was 15.6p. The awards outstanding 
at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of 0.0p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 16 months. 
In 2015, awards were granted on 11 March and 4 November. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those 
dates is £1,467,820. Financials
104
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
20. Other reserves
Group
Statutory
reserves
of subsidiary
undertakings
£’000
Capital
 redemption
reserve
£’000
 Revaluation
reserve
£’000
 Total other
 reserves
£’000
At 1 January 2014 5,878 1,186 (764) 6,300
Loss on available-for-sale investments — — (218) (218)
At 31 December 2014 5,878 1,186 (982) 6,082
At 31 December 2015 5,878 1,186 (982) 6,082
£26,830,000 of the Group’s brought forward merger reserve of £32,513,000 relates to the premium arising on shares issued as consideration 
for the acquisition of Ineum Consulting where merger relief, under the relevant section of the Companies Act, was applied. As at 31 December 2015, 
this element of the Group’s merger reserve has been transferred in full to retained earnings, due to the in year impairment charge relating to the 
former Ineum Consulting acquisition. 
The remaining Group merger reserve of £5,683,000 relates to the premium arising on shares issued as consideration for the acquisition 
of Parson Consulting and other smaller historic acquisitions within the Alexander Proudfoot division. 
The share compensation reserve represents the net credit arising from the charge for share awards less amounts transferred to retained earnings 
following the lapse of share awards. Shares held in treasury and by the employee benefit trusts represent 6,673,294 shares (2014: 10,941,929). 
The value of these shares held in reserves is £1,855,225 (2014: £3,063,041).
During 2015 the Group’s employee benefit trust did not purchase any called up share capital (2014: 1% purchased).
21. Retained earnings (Company only)
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own income statement. The movement in the 
Group income statement for the financial year includes a loss of £58,252,000 (2014: profit of £1,019,000) dealt with in the financial statements 
of the Company.
22. Notes to the cash flow statement
 
Group Company
 2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
 2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations (53) 4,339 (57,069) (1,416)
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (1,739) 3,780 — —
(Loss)/profit from operations (1,792) 8,119 (57,069) (1,416)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 861 830 108 146
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,793 2,040 132 116
Profit on Disposal of fixed assets (7) (341) — —
Adjustment for the cost of share awards 1,155 2,410 1,132 2,060
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3,143) (1,905) 4,054 (607)
Impairment of investments — — 70,970 —
Other non-cash items 159 — — —
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (974) 11,153 19,327 299
Increase/(decrease) in receivables 7,476 3,796 1,078 (93)
Increase in payables 1,119 2,676 1,151 976
Cash generated by/(used in) operations 7,621 17,625 21,556 1,182
Income taxes paid (6,712) (4,537) (4) —
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 909 13,088 21,552 1,182 Governance Financials Strategic report
105
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
22. Notes to the cash flow statement continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
 
Group Company
Note
 2015
£’000 
2014
£’000 
 2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Cash at bank and in hand 15,478 24,920 169 362
Cash within assets held for sale 27 5,259 — — —
Cash and cash equivalents 20,737 24,920 169 362
Included within the prior year cash balance of £24.9m was £1.8m of cash which was not available for use by the Group. None of the cash held 
within the continuing Group’s balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 was restricted.
23. Financial instruments
Capital structure and treasury policies
Review of treasury policies
The Group and Company are financed by shareholders’ equity and debt. The Group and Company’s capital structures are reviewed regularly 
to ensure that each remains relevant to the business and its planned development. There are established treasury policies that are reviewed 
regularly to ensure that they remain relevant to the business. 
Risk management
The objective of the Group and Company’s treasury policies is to provide liquidity for the Group and Company at minimum risk and minimum 
cost and to hedge known financial exposures, when economically efficient. The main treasury risks faced by the Group and Company are country 
specific liquidity risks. The Group and Company’s objectives regarding interest rate risk, exchange rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are, respectively, 
to minimise interest charges; minimise realised exchange losses on foreign currency transactions; ensure that the Group and Company only 
deal with creditworthy customers; and ensure that the Group and Company have sufficient resources available to meet their liabilities as they 
fall due. Investment of the Group and Company’s cash is made within policies that cover counterparty risk and liquidity. Surplus cash is invested 
generally in overnight deposits or commensurate with the maturity of loan draw downs. Draw downs under the £85m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility arrangement in place during 2015 allowed for interest maturities of up six months in US Dollars, Euro and other major currencies 
enabling the Group to hedge its borrowings against its major operating currencies. As detailed under “Liquidity and capital resources” in the 
Financial Review, the £85m revolving credit facility arrangement was repaid in full on 7 January 2016 and has been replaced with a £15m 
working capital facility which runs until March 2019. As with the former facility, draw downs under the new working capital facility are for 
interest maturities of up to six months and will be matched against the Group’s major operating currencies.
Covenant compliance
The new £15m working capital facility is subject to the same two financial covenants as the former £85m revolving credit facility; Group net 
debt and Group interest cover, with testing commencing on 30 June 2016 and being performed quarterly thereafter. The Group’s net cash/debt 
position is closely monitored and there are effective cash forecasting procedures in place. These procedures involve careful review of future 
billing levels and new business prospects with operational management. Further information on borrowings is shown in note 16.
The most important foreign currencies for the Group and the Company are the US Dollar and the Euro. The relevant exchange rates to Sterling were:
2015 2014
Average Closing Average Closing 
£1 = US Dollar 1.53 1.47 1.65 1.56
£1 = Euro 1.38 1.36 1.24 1.28 Financials
106
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Capital structure and treasury policies continued
Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities at the year end – Group
Currency Note
2015
Floating
rate
£’000
2014
 Floating
rate
£’000
Financial assets
Sterling 524 1,230
US Dollar 3,102 5,683
Euro 9,605 11,250
Other 2,247 6,757
Cash and cash equivalents 22 15,478 24,920
Sterling 276 —
Euro 42 319
US Dollar 393 408
Investments 12 711 727
Sterling 3,813 3,829
US Dollar 18,850 19,062
Euro 2,255 33,671
Other 4,197 6,339
Trade and other receivables 13 29,115 62,901
Financial liabilities
Sterling (11,231) (10,219)
US Dollar (18,221) (14,210)
Euro (5,259) (35,440)
Other (5,164) (11,204)
Trade and other payables 14 (39,875) (71,073)
The cash and cash equivalents, including short-term deposits, attract interest rates based on Libor, US Dollar Libor and Euribor for periods of up 
to three months. The carrying value of these assets approximates their fair value.  Governance Financials Strategic report
107
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Exposure to credit risk – Group
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
 
Carrying amount
Note
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Investments 12 711 727
Cash and cash equivalents 22 15,478 24,920
16,189 25,647
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
 
Carrying amount
Note
2015
£’000 
2014
£’000
Europe 1,143 21,423
United States 12,718 14,575
Rest of the World 2,454 3,946
United Kingdom 398 711
13 16,713 40,655
The Group’s most significant customer accounts for 6% of the trade receivables carrying amount at 31 December 2015 (2014: 12%).
Note
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Not past due 9,886 22,540
Past due 0–30 days 3,422 10,475
Past due 31–120 days 3,405 7,640
13 16,713 40,655
The credit quality of trade receivables not past due is believed to be A-.
Liquidity risk – Group
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
31 December 2015 Note
Carrying
amount
£’000
Contractual
cash flows
£’000
6 months
 or less
 £’000
 6–12 
months
 £’000
1–2 
years 
 £’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 16 (68,294) (68,294) (68,294) — —
Trade and other payables 14 (39,875) (39,875) (39,875) — —
 (108,169) (108,169) (108,169) — —
31 December 2014 Note
Carrying
amount 
£’000
Contractual 
cash flows
£’000
6 months
 or less
£’000
6–12
months 
£’000
1–2 
years 
£’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 16 (58,521) — — — (58,521)
Trade and other payables 14 (71,073) (71,073) (71,073) — —
 (129,594) (71,073) (71,073) — (58,521) Financials
108
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Currency risk – Group
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows, based on notional amounts:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
€’000 $’000 €’000 $’000 
Trade receivables 1,143 12,718 21,423 14,575
Bank loans (64,902) (3,392) (35,648) (22,873)
Trade payables (141) (393) (1,469) (650)
Gross balance sheet exposure (63,900) 8,933 (15,694) (8,948)
Notional current year sales 17,115 83,229 104,612 87,160
Notional current year purchases (8,238) (58,025) (77,287) (53,871)
Gross and net exposure 8,877 25,204 27,325 33,289
Sensitivity analysis – Group
A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or 
loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is 
performed on the same basis for 2014.
Equity 
£’000
Profit
or loss
 £’000
2015
US Dollar (812) (2,291)
Euro 5,809 (807)
2014
US Dollar 813 (3,026)
Euro 1,427 (2,484)
A 10% weakening of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss 
by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed 
on the same basis for 2014.
Equity 
£’000
Profit 
or loss 
£’000
2015
US Dollar 993 2,800
Euro (7,100) 986
2014
US Dollar (994) 3,699
Euro (1,744) 3,036
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Fixed rate instruments
2015
%
 2014
%
Financial liabilities of less than six months 3.3 —
Financial liabilities of one to two years — 2.8
The Group has no variable or fixed rate financial assets. The Group has variable rate financial liabilities which are fixed at intervals of up to six months. Governance Financials Strategic report
109
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Fair values versus carrying amounts – Group
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
 Note
Carrying 
amount 
£’000 
Fair 
value
£’000 
Carrying 
amount
£’000
Fair
 value
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets 12 711 711 727 727
Cash and cash equivalents 22 15,478 15,478 24,920 24,920
Bank loans 16 (68,294) (68,294) (58,521) (55,740)
Trade and other payables 14 (39,875) (39,875) (71,073) (71,073)
The basis for determining fair values for bank loans is disclosed in note 16.
Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities at the year end – Company
Currency Note
2015
Floating
rate
£’000
2014
Floating
rate
£’000
Financial assets
Sterling 66 362
US Dollar — —
Euro 103 —
Cash and cash equivalents 22 169 362
Sterling 10,329 17,361
US Dollar 32,637 7,767
Euro 70 589
Other 8 —
Trade and other receivables 13 43,044 25,517
Financial liabilities
Sterling (6,730) (6,961)
US Dollar (3,498) (2,617)
Euro (10,611) (28,494)
Other (62) (1,322)
Trade and other payables 14 (20,901) (39,394)
The cash and cash equivalents, including short-term deposits, attract interest rates based on Libor, US Dollar Libor and Euribor for periods of up 
to three months. The carrying value of these assets approximates their fair value. Financials
110
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Exposure to credit risk – Company
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
 
Carrying amount
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 169 362
The Company has no exposure to credit risk for trade receivables.
Liquidity risk – Company
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments:
31 December 2015
Carrying
amount
£’000
Contractual
cash flows
£’000
6 months
or less
£’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans (26,551) (26,551) (26,551)
Trade and other payables (20,901) (20,901) (20,901)
 (47,452) (47,452) (47,452)
31 December 2014
Carrying
amount
£’000 
Contractual 
cash flows
£’000
6 months 
or less
£’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (39,394) (39,394) (39,394)
 (39,394) (39,394) (39,394)
Currency risk – Company
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows, based on notional amounts:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
€’000 $’000 €’000 $’000 
Intercompany receivables 70 32,637 589 7,767
Intercompany payables (10,611) (3,498) (28,494) (2,617)
Gross balance sheet exposure (10,541) 29,139 (27,905) 5,150
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk relates to intercompany balances with other companies within the Group. Governance Financials Strategic report
111
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
23. Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis – Company
A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit 
or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis 
is performed on the same basis for 2014.
 
Equity 
£’000
Profit
or loss
 £’000
2015
US Dollar (1,797) 1,797
Euro 707 (707)
2014
US Dollar (300) 300
Euro 1,982 (1,982)
A 10% weakening of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 December 2015 would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss 
by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is 
performed on the same basis for 2014.
 
Equity 
£’000
Profit
or loss
 £’000
2015
US Dollar 2,196 (2,196)
Euro (864) 864
2014
US Dollar 368 (368)
Euro (2,422) 2,422
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Fixed rate instruments
2015
%
 2014
%
Financial liabilities less than six months 3.1% —
The Company has no variable or fixed rate financial assets or financial liabilities.
Fair values versus carrying amounts – Company 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
 
Carrying 
amount 
£’000 
Fair 
value
£’000 
Carrying 
amount
£’000
Fair
 value
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 169 169 362 362
Bank loans (26,551) (26,551) — —
Trade and other payables (20,901) (20,901) (39,394) (39,394) Financials
112
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
24. Operating lease arrangements
Group
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 4,157 7,621
At the balance sheet date, the Group has aggregate outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2015 2014
Group
Land and
buildings
£’000
Other
£’000
Land and
buildings
£’000
Other
 £’000
Within one year 3,152 89 6,407 81
In the second to fifth years inclusive 6,831 28 20,656 99
After five years 952 — 4,127 —
10,935 117 31,190 180
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties. Leases are negotiated for an average term 
of seven years and rentals are fixed for an average of four years.
The reduction in operating lease commitments comprise £15m of lease commitments relating to discontinued operations and a further £4m 
from lease rationalisation in respect of the London and Atlanta offices.
25. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. Except as disclosed below, 
no Group company entered into a transaction with a related party that is not a member of the Group. Goods and services purchased from related 
parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions. 
During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties:
Julian Waldron, a director of the Company, is the Chief Financial Officer of Technip SA. During 2015 Kurt Salmon Consulting SAS provided 
consultancy services at fair market rates to Technip SA valued at £nil (2014: £196,875) and at year end there was a receivable from Technip SA 
of £66,712 (2014: £66,712).
All transactions with pension trustees have been disclosed in note 17.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The aggregate remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below. Key management personnel are the heads 
of the consultancies and other executive directors. Information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,410 1,802
Post-employment benefits 151 154
Termination benefits 1,613 —
3,174 1,956 Governance Financials Strategic report
113
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
26. Subsidiary undertakings
At 31 December 2015, the Company had the following subsidiary undertakings, with all trading subsidiaries being engaged in the provision 
of management consultancy services. The shareholdings were 100% of the subsidiary undertakings’ ordinary shares and were held indirectly 
except where indicated. Each of the subsidiaries is included in the consolidation.
Countries of
incorporation/operation
Continuing operations:
Management Consulting Group Overseas Ltd* United Kingdom
MCG Company No 4 Ltd* United Kingdom
Proudfoot Trustees Ltd* United Kingdom
MCG Company No 1 Ltd* United Kingdom
MCG Overseas Holdings Ltd (UK)* United Kingdom
Kurt Salmon UKI Ltd* United Kingdom
Alexander Proudfoot (Europe) Ltd* United Kingdom
Kurt Salmon Associates Limited United Kingdom
Alexander Proudfoot Company of Europe Ltd* United Kingdom
Alexander Proudfoot Ltd* United Kingdom
MCG US Holdings Inc (USA) United States
Alexander Proudfoot Company United States
Total Process Solutions LLC United States
Kurt Salmon US Inc. United States
Alexander Proudfoot Inc (Canada – Ontario) Canada
Kurt Salmon Associates Canada Ltd/ Kurt Salmon Canada Ltée Canada
Alexander Proudfoot Services GmbH Germany
Kurt Salmon Germany GmbH Germany
Alexander Proudfoot GmbH Germany
Alexander Proudfoot GmbH* Austria
Alexander Proudfoot Organizacao de Empresas Lda Portugal
BSA Conseil Sarl Luxembourg
Alexander Proudfoot France SAS France
Alexander Proudfoot Europe SA Belgium
Alexander Proudfoot SA Switzerland
Kurt Salmon Associates AG Spain
Kurt Salmon Associates SA Netherlands
Kurt Salmon Associates BV Netherlands
MCG Holdings Netherlands BV Netherlands
MCG Overseas Holdings BV* Netherlands
Proudfoot (Netherlands) BV Netherlands
MCG Nederland BV Netherlands
Alexander Proudfoot Japan K.K Japan
Proudfoot (Malaysia) SDN BHD Malaysia
KSA (Mauritius) Ltd Mauritius
Proudfoot (Singapore) Pte Singapore
Vertical Retail Consulting Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
Vertical Retail Consulting Limited (Hong Kong) Hong Kong
Vertical Retail Consulting Limited (Shanghai) China
Alexander Proudfoot Consulting (Shanghai) Limited China
Ineum Consulting Pty Ltd (Australia) Australia
Alexander Proudfoot SPA (Chile) Chile
AP Participações Ltda Brazil
Alexander Proudfoot – Servicos Empresariais LTDA Brazil
Proudfoot (de Mexico) SC Mexico
Alexander Proudfoot South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa
Alexander Proudfoot Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa
Alexander Proudfoot (Botswana) Pty LTD Botswana
* Held directly. Financials
114
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
26. Subsidiary undertakings continued
Countries of
incorporation/operation
Discontinued operations:
Management Consulting Group France S.A.S France
Kurt Salmon Associes France SA France
Kurt Salmon France SAS France
Kurt Salmon Switzerland Sarl Switzerland
Kurt Salmon Luxembourg SA Luxembourg
Kurt Salmon Belgium SA – NV Belgium
Kurt Salmon Maroc Sarl Morocco
Company
Amounts owed by/(owed to) subsidiary undertakings
2015
£’000
receivable/(payable)
2014
£’000
receivable/(payable)
Alexander Proudfoot (Europe) Limited 186 1,303
Alexander Proudfoot Company of Europe Ltd (1,000) (1,000)
MCG Company No. 1 Limited (1,646) —
MCG Holdings Netherlands BV (940) 24
Alexander Proudfoot Japan KK 21 21
Alexander Proudfoot Australia — (1,253)
Alexander Proudfoot Inc. — 2
MCG US Holdings Inc. 21,781 (1,602)
Alexander Proudfoot – Serviços Empresariais LTDA 389 383
Alexander Proudfoot Company 252 1,791
Alexander Proudfoot Europe SA — 3
Management Consulting Group Overseas Limited (427) (267)
MCG Overseas Holdings BV 9 3
MCG Company No. 4 Limited (23,290) (19,196)
Kurt Salmon US Inc. 9,852 10,145
Kurt Salmon UKI Limited 7,216 6,250
Management Consulting Group SAS — (247)
Kurt Salmon Associés France SA 16 (115)
Kurt Salmon France SAS 107 3,024
Kurt Salmon Belgium SA/BV — 6
Kurt Salmon Luxembourg SA 133 245
Kurt Salmon Switzerland Sarl 11 11
Kurt Salmon GmbH (6,988) (7,409)
Kurt Salmon Associates AG (191) (1,987)
Proudfoot (Malaysia) SDN BHD 8 8
MCG Nederland B.V. 9 6
Amounts owed by/(owed to) 5,508 (9,851) Governance Financials Strategic report
115
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
26. Subsidiary undertakings continued
Company continued
T ransactions with subsidiary undertakings
2015
£’000
expense/
(income)
2014
£’000
expense/
(income)
Alexander Proudfoot (Europe) Limited 44 45
Alexander Proudfoot Company (1,361) (2,669)
Kurt Salmon UKI Limited (498) (310)
Kurt Salmon US Inc. (1,380) (1,632)
Kurt Salmon France SAS (1,492) (3,536)
Kurt Salmon Belgium SA/BV (44) (56)
Kurt Salmon Luxembourg SA (119) (349)
Kurt Salmon Switzerland Sarl (17) (5)
Kurt Salmon Germany GmbH 52 (62)
Alexander Proudfoot Inc. — —
Kurt Salmon Associates AG 38 68
Management Consulting Group France SAS (99) (99)
Kurt Salmon US Inc. (Japan branch) (44) (87)
Income from transactions with subsidiary undertakings (4,920) (8,692)
27. Discontinued operations and Disposal
On 25 November 2015, the Group entered into a binding agreement with Solucom for the sale (“the Disposal”) of certain operations in Kurt Salmon, 
comprising the Kurt Salmon businesses in France, Belgium, Luxemburg, Switzerland and Morocco, together with certain related operations in 
the United States (the “disposal group”).
The Disposal was of sufficient size relative to the Group to constitute a class 1 transaction for MCG under the Listing Rules. As such, completion 
of the Disposal was contingent, amongst other things, upon shareholder approval at the general meeting held on 17 December 2015. The Disposal 
resolution was approved at the general meeting leaving completion as at 31 December 2015 contingent only on the following:
(i) there having been no material adverse change in staff retention rates and current year forecast operating results of the target business from 
the date of signing of the Disposal agreement i.e., 25 November 2015, to 6 January 2016; and
(ii) the French Anti-trust authority approving the Disposal.
The directors assessed the remaining conditions as at 31 December 2015 and concluded that there was nothing to suggest that the conditions 
would not be met prior to the expected completion date of 7 January 2016. For this reason, the disposal group has been treated as both a discontinued 
operation and a disposal group held for sale in the 2015 financial statements.
The Disposal completed on 7 January 2016 as expected. On this date, control of the disposal group passed from MCG PLC to Solucom. Financials
116
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
27. Discontinued operations and Disposal continued
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement within the loss from discontinued 
operations line, were as follows:
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Revenue 91,528 96,915
Cost of sales (67,167) (70,645)
Gross profit 24,361 26,270
Administrative expenses – underlying (19,528) (22,114)
Profit from operations – underlying 4,833 4,156
Administrative expenses – non-recurring (6,572) (376)
(Loss)/profit from operations (1,739) 3,780
Net finance cost (1,514) (1,640)
(Loss)/profit before tax (3,253) 2,140
Attributable tax expense (1,177) (1,042)
Loss/(profit) after tax (4,430) 1,098
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (53,372) —
Net (loss)/profit attributable to discontinued operations (57,802) 1,098
Non-recurring expenses related to discontinued operations were £6.6m (2014: £0.4m), comprising severance costs relating to Chiheb Mahjoub 
of £2.0m, non-recurring employee-related costs of £3.6m and expenses related to share awards of £1.0m.
The loss on Disposal of £53.4m arises as a result of the impairment of goodwill relating to the disposal group. The impairment charge represents 
the difference between the goodwill and net assets attributed to the disposal group and estimated consideration after post-closing adjustments 
net of transaction costs.
The completion of the Disposal on 7 January 2016 is expected to give rise to a taxable gain on certain elements of the businesses which have 
been sold, the tax charge on which, estimated at £1.8m, will be reflected as a loss attributable to discontinued operations in the reported income 
statement for 2016. 
In addition, the 2015 reported loss on Disposal does not reflect the recycling through the income statement of approximately £3.2m of currency 
translation reserves credits, which are required to be realised in the financial year in which the transaction was completed and which will therefore 
be reported in 2016. 
Whilst the Disposal officially completed on 7 January 2016 post-closing consideration has been derived from completion accounts drawn up to 
31 December 2015 resulting in all economic benefit arising from discontinued operations between 1 to 7 January 2016 being transferred to the 
acquirer. MCG PLC’s 2016 financial statements will therefore not reflect trading results arising from discontinued operations for the seven days 
to 7 January 2016. Governance Financials Strategic report
117
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
27. Discontinued operations and Disposal continued
During the year, the disposal group contributed a cash outflow of £1.4m (2014: £5.9m inflow) to the Group’s net operating cash flows and 
paid £0.1m (2014: £0.2m) in respect of investing activities. Discontinued operations had no impact on the cash generated or used in financing 
activities in either the current or prior year. 
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows:
2015
£’000
Goodwill and other intangibles 52,870
Property, plant and equipment 395
Deferred tax asset 842
Trade and other receivables 30,498
Current tax receivables 1,921
Cash and cash equivalents 5,259
Total assets classified as held for sale 91,785
Trade and other payables (30,028)
Current tax liabilities (521)
Long-term provisions (368)
Retirement benefit obligation (2,188)
Total liabilities classified as held for sale (33,105)
Net assets of the disposal group 58,680
Estimated post-closing consideration net of transaction fees 58,680
Estimated result from the Disposal before tax and the recycling of translation reserves —
The 2016 result from the Disposal before tax and translation recycling is expected to be £nil following the write-down of the disposal group’s 
net assets to estimated net proceeds on 31 December 2015.
At completion cash proceeds of €89.0m (equivalent to £65.9m) which included €4.0m (equivalent to £3.0m) relating to estimated cash balances 
which remained in the disposal group were received on 7 January 2016. The difference between the cash held for sale and the cash transferred 
at completion will be addressed via post-completion adjustments to consideration. Financials
118
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015
28. Acquisitions
On 1 October 2015 the Group acquired the trade and assets of Mobispoke LLC (“Mobispoke”), a digital retail technology agency operating in the 
United States. The assets transferred comprised fully written down computer software and hardware and as such have not been recognised on 
the Group’s balance sheet. There were no other identifiable assets at the acquisition date. The following table sets out the consideration paid 
and the goodwill arising on acquisition:
Final
fair value 
to Group
$’000
FX rate 
USD:GBP
Final
fair value 
to Group
£’000
Consideration given 975 1.5282 638
Goodwill arising 638
The fair value of the consideration given was:
Cash 483 1.5282 316
Equity 492 1.5282 322
975 638
The goodwill arising on acquisition represents the value attributed to the existing assembled workforce of Mobispoke and has been allocated 
in full to the Kurt Salmon CGU (see note 10). The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
The consideration outlined above reflects the fair value of consideration transferred at completion. Deferred consideration is contingent on the 
retention of key former Mobispoke employees and under IFRS 3 Business Combinations is required to be recognised as remuneration over the 
contingent period.
There are two types of deferred contingent consideration payable to the Mobispoke vendors: a first year anniversary award of $975,000 and a 
three year revenue focused performance award of up to $1,750,000. The fair value of the first year anniversary award is deemed to be $975,000 
and will be recognised as remuneration on a straight-line basis over the twelve months to 30 September 2016. The fair value of the performance 
award is based on revenue projections for the next three years and is deemed to be $1,283,000. The deemed remuneration arising from the 
performance award will be recognised on a straight-line basis over the three years to 30 September 2018.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group recognised £237,900 of remuneration costs in respect of deferred consideration within administrative expenses.
Since acquisition, Mobispoke has operated as Kurt Salmon Digital, focusing on new technologies and transformative strategies for Kurt Salmon’s 
retail clients, including for example, smart fitting rooms, integrated mobile apps and other leading-edge, interactive shopping experience 
technologies. The Kurt Salmon Digital practice contributed revenues of £285,000 ($436,000) and a loss of £75,000 ($114,000) to the Group’s 
2015 results. If the Mobispoke acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year then the Group would have reported 
revenues of £140,189,000 and an operating loss for the year of £385,000. Governance Financials Strategic report
119
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Contacts for investors and clients
www.mcgplc.com
Registered office
10 Fleet Place 
London EC4M 7RB 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 20 7710 5000 
Fax: +44 20 7710 5001
Company number 
1000608
Registrar
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
United Kingdom
Company Secretary
Charles Ansley
Charles.Ansley@mcgplc.com 
London office: +44 20 7710 5000
We encourage shareholders to register for 
copies of corporate communications on our 
investor relations website at  
www.mcgplc.com.
Investor relations
The Group welcomes contact with 
its shareholders.
Enquiries should be directed to:
Nick Stagg, Chief Executive 
Nick.Stagg@mcgplc.com or
Chris Povey, Finance Director
Chris.Povey@mcgplc.com
London office: +44 20 7710 5000
Enquiries and notification concerning dividends, 
share certificates or transfers and address 
changes should be sent to the Registrar at 
the address shown.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting: 20 June 2016
Operational contacts
We welcome clients introduced by shareholders. 
Shareholders wishing to provide introductions 
to potential clients should contact Chris Povey 
(see contact details above).
Share price information
The Company’s share price information can 
be found at www.mcgplc.com or through 
your broker. The share symbol is MMC.L.
Shareholder services
Online services are available to private 
shareholders. To use these facilities visit 
www.capitashareportal.com.
“Account Enquiry” allows shareholders to 
access their shareholding on the register 
including transaction history, dividend payment 
history and up to date share valuation. 
“Amendment of Standing Data” allows 
shareholders to change their registered postal 
address and add, change or delete dividend 
mandate instructions. Certain forms can be 
downloaded, such as dividend mandate forms 
and stock transfer forms.
Should you have any queries please contact 
Capita Asset Services’ helpline on 0871 664 
0300, from overseas on +44 371 664 0300 
(calls outside of the UK will be charged at the 
applicable international rate). Calls cost 12p 
per minute plus your phone company’s 
access charge. Lines are open between 
9.00am - 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding 
public holidays in England and Wales. 
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk.
Share dealings
A quick and easy share dealing service is 
provided by Capita Share Dealing Services 
for UK registered certificated holders to either 
buy or sell shares. For further information on 
this service, or to buy and sell shares, please 
contact www.capitadeal.com (online dealing) 
or 0371 664 0445 (telephone dealing). Financials
120
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Company advisers
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House 
120 London Wall 
London EC2Y 5ET 
United Kingdom
Financial advisers
Rothschild
New Court 
St Swithins Lane 
London EC4N 8AL 
United Kingdom
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ 
United Kingdom
Financial PR advisers
FTI Consulting 
Holborn Gate  
26 Southampton Buildings 
London WC2A 1PB  
United Kingdom
Commercial bankers
HSBC Bank Plc
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom
Legal advisers
Baker & McKenzie LLP
100 New Bridge Street 
London EC4V 6JA 
United Kingdom Management Consulting Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
10 Fleet Place 
London EC4M 7RB 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 20 7710 5000 
Fax: +44 20 7710 5001
www.mcgplc.com  
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
MCG’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this annual report which has been printed on Splendorgel 
Extra White, an FSC
®
 Mix Certified paper, which ensures that all virgin pulp is derived from well-managed forests and 
other responsible sources. 
This document was printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, which minimises the impact 
of printing on the environment. Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of all dry waste associated with this 
production is diverted from landfill.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company.
