 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 C
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Creating better spaces Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 D
Strategic Report
01  Financial highlights and  
current priorities
02 At a Glance
04 Business Model
06  Innovation in Action
08 Chairman's Statement
10 Chief Executive’s Statement
12 Markets
16 Strategy
18 Key Performance Indicators
20  Risk Management and Principal Risks
24 Sustainability
28 Financial Review
Corporate Governance
34 Board of Directors and Secretary
36 Corporate Governance Statement
42 Nomination Committee Report
44  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
46 Remuneration Committee Report
49 At a Glance Summary
53 Annual Remuneration Report
61 Audit Committee Report
64  Directors’ Report – Other Regulatory 
Information
66 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial Statements
70 Consolidated Income Statement
71  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
72 Consolidated Balance Sheet
73  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
74  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
76  Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
111  Parent Company Statement of Changes  
in Equity
112  Company Balance Sheet
113  Notes to the Company Financial Statements
119  Financial History – Consolidated Group
Shareholder Information
121 Shareholder Information
At a Glance page 2 2 Business Model page 4 4
Marshalls is the UK’s leading  
hard landscaping manufacturer 
supplying superior natural stone and innovative concrete products 
to the construction, home improvement and landscape markets  
since the 1890s. As a market leader in its sector, the Group operates 
manufacturing sites and quarries throughout the UK. 
Front cover – Trafalgar Square, National Portrait Gallery
Above – Canary Wharf Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Financial highlights
 — Revenue up 8% to £386.2 million 
(2014: £358.5 million)
 — Strong profit before tax growth of 57% 
to £35.3 million (2014: £22.4 million)
 — Operating profit of £37.5 million (2014: 
£25.3 million) driving improved operating 
margins to 9.7% (2014: 7.1%)
 — Return on capital employed improved 52% 
(650 basis points) to 19.0% (2014: 12.5%)
 — EPS up 41% to 14.32 pence (2014: 10.13 pence)
 — Final dividend increased by 19% to 4.75 pence 
(2014: 4.00 pence) per share
 — Supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share
Current priorities
 — To improve operational efficiency and 
promote innovation 
 — To further strengthen the Marshalls brand by 
developing systems-based solutions, service 
excellence and new product development
 — To grow our business both organically 
and selectively through acquisitions
 — To continue to develop and invest in our strategic 
growth initiatives, particularly in Water Management, 
Street Furniture, Rail and New Build Housing
Find out more online
www.marshalls.co.uk
Follow us on YouTube  
MarshallsTV
Find us on Facebook 
MarshallsGroup
Follow us on Twitter  
@MarshallsGroup
Follow us on LinkedIn 
Marshalls
Highlights
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01
Strategy page 16 16
Key Performance Indicators page 18 18
Revenue £'m
£386.2m  
+8%
358.5
307.4
386.2
2013 2014 2015
Operating profit £'m
£37.5m  
+48%
25.3
16.1
37.5 
2013 2014 2015
Profit before tax £'m 
£35.3m  
+57%
22.4
13.0
35.3
2013 2014 2015
Return on capital 
employed %
19.0%  
+52%
12.5
8.1
 19.0
2013 2014 2015
Final dividend 
recommended p
4.75p  
+19%
4.00
3.50
4.75
2013 2014 2015
EPS p 
14.32p  
+41%
10.13
6.94
 14.32
2013 2014 2015
2.00
(+ 2.00p supplementary) Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 02
Strategic Report
At a Glance
Our business
The strategic focus is firmly on growth and to deliver benefits 
from operational gearing. We provide exceptional customer 
service and manufacturing expertise driven by a commitment 
to our core values.
INTERIORS, GARDENS, SEATING AND LANDSCAPES
Marshalls is the leading innovator of hard landscaping 
solutions for the commercial construction sector, placing 
a focus on developing new and innovative products.
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market 
Marshalls focuses on developing products which 
help architects, local authorities and contractors 
to create better spaces, whether it is street furniture, 
natural stone paving for the internal or external 
environment, concrete block paving, water management 
or protective street furniture products.
Public Sector 
and Commercial
Our markets
INTERIORS, GARDENS AND DRIVEWAYS
Marshalls’ Domestic customers range from DIY 
enthusiasts to professional landscapers, driveway 
installers and garden designers. Sales continue to be 
driven through the Marshalls Register of Accredited 
Landscapers and Driveway Installers. 
For homeowners Marshalls offers the inspiration they 
need for their garden and driveway projects.
Domestic
Markets – Domestic page 14 14 Markets – Public Sector and Commercial page 12 12 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
Innovation
The structure of the Marshalls Innovation Cycle gives us a greater 
ability to feed the Group Marketing Evolution Plan – a necessity 
for a healthy, sustainable and industry leading new product 
design (“NPD”) pipeline. 
The new structure enables us to dynamically plug into a wider 
intelligence of product ideas, market drivers, industry technology 
and manufacturing system and process improvements for the next 
generation of Marshalls NPD. 
Product and process concepts will be engaged by stakeholders 
and brought to life and managed within the Innovation Growth 
Engine. Based on real commercial intelligence the best concepts 
will be prioritised by business leaders and will move forward with 
more speed and confidence before being managed through the 
manufacturing or marketing process prior to manufacture.
Intelligence
Customers
Marshalls is the market-leading supplier of hard 
landscaping products to both the Domestic and 
Public Sector and Commercial end markets.
Public Sector and Commercial
Customers: Local authorities, commercial architects, specifiers, 
contractors, housebuilders and builders merchants.
Domestic 
Customers: National and independent builders merchants, 
DIY groups, professional landscapers, garden designers and 
patio and driveway installers.
Our benchmarks
Marshalls has been rated a Business Superbrand every year since 2010. 
Superbrands is an annual initiative to identify and celebrate Britain’s strongest 
consumer and business-to-business brands.
Products
Marshalls offers complete hard landscaping solutions for 
the domestic and commercial hard landscaping markets, 
as well as internal flooring, street furniture and lighting.
Public Sector and Commercial
Products: Paving, block paving, kerb, water management, 
natural stone cladding, street furniture, lighting, protective 
street furniture, walling and mortars.
Domestic 
Products: Paving, block paving, paths, edgings, walling and 
decorative aggregates.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our innovation cycle
Innovation in Action pages 6 – 7 6
Future scapes Market intelligence
Innovation growth engine
Investment
Product management
Manufacture
Idea portfolio
T echnology drivers Materials R&D Sales feedback
Innovation Delivery Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04
Strategic Report
Customers
Our customers range from Domestic homeowners 
to Public Sector and Commercial. We seek to 
exceed the expectations of customers in all 
our markets.
Quality and service
We set industry leading standards of product 
quality, availability and "on-time” delivery. We are 
committed to producing new products that 
better any existing market offering.
Business Model
How we do business
Marshalls΄ principal goal is to create value through 
creating better spaces. We place a strong emphasis  
on product innovation and service delivery initiatives. 
Setting the standards
Marshalls is a benchmark for excellence, and 
continues to be widely regarded as a leader in its 
field. Marshalls is proud of its status as market 
leader, and is dedicated to retaining and 
consolidating its position and being the  
supplier of choice for hard landscaping  
materials for Public Sector and Commercial  
and Domestic customers.
Distribution
Due to the scale of our operations, and our network 
of regional centres, 97 per cent of our customers 
are less than 2 hours away. This continues to be 
a key competitive advantage.
Manufacture
The Group manufactures and supplies landscape, 
driveway and garden products from a range of 
materials, being principally concrete and natural 
stone. Marshalls has a world-class Manufacturing, 
Innovation and Development team.
How we operate
Sourcing
The Group’s main raw materials are cement, sand, 
aggregates, pigments, fuel oil and utilities. We use 
the best materials we can source. Supply chain 
relationships include the ethical sourcing of 
natural stone from India, China and Vietnam. 
The Group also has extensive reserves of 
UK natural stone. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
How we add value
Our values Our people Our brand
Our resources
Product innovation
 — New and innovative products
 — Machinery design and installation
Technical expertise
 — World-class Manufacturing, 
Innovation and Development team
 — Skilled engineers and technicians
Customer service
 — Industry leading standards
 — Quality, availability and  
"on-time" delivery
Our strengths
Shareholders
 — Progressive  
dividend policy
 — Targeting 2 times 
dividend cover over 
business cycle
People
 — Employee 
engagement
 — Promote 
development and 
personal growth
 — Living wage 
company
Customers
 — Centre of business 
model
 — Quality products and 
exceptional service
Communities
 — Business in the 
Community
 — Responsible business 
practices
The business
 — Re-investment 
(R&D, capital 
expenditure)
 — Drive sustainable 
growth
Our value creation
Homeowners Commercial
Our customers
Sustainability
Trust
Excellence
Leadership Mono Beany in situ
Because of its many benefits Mono Beany is already proving to be popular and 
has been used on a number of projects including the recent upgrade of the 
M1 motorway, for which Marshalls has supplied around 33,000 metres.
Innovation life cycle: Mono Beany
Based on strategic growth areas of the business a number 
of factors are considered. 
Because of climate change extreme weather events are 
becoming more commonplace in the UK which in turn has 
led to more flooding. The need for better management of 
rainfall has led to water management becoming a strategic 
growth area for Marshalls.
Intelligence Mono Beany is a one-piece 
combined kerb and drainage 
system for removing surface 
water from highways.
06
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Innovation in Action
Highway drainage innovation Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Intelligence is fed to Marshalls' innovation team, whose role 
it is to generate product ideas and design. In this case the 
team developed Marshalls΄ one-piece kerb and drainage 
product, Mono Beany.
Idea portfolio
Mono Beany, along with a range of water management 
products, sits within the idea portfolio waiting for 
further development.
Investment
Marshalls invests in the production of a prototype, the 
testing and the equipment and machinery necessary for the 
Mono Beany manufacturing process.
Product management
Marshalls΄ Water Management Marketing team undertakes 
all the necessary work to bring Mono Beany to market.
Manufacture
Marshalls manufactures Mono Beany at one of its concrete 
manufacturing facilities located in West Yorkshire.
Innovation Delivery
07
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Summary
 — Core values remain leadership, excellence, 
trust and sustainability.
 — Entered FTSE 250 with significant growth 
in revenue and profitability.
 — Well placed to make further progress 
in the year ahead.
 — Full-year dividend of 7.00 pence (up 17%) 
and a discretionary supplementary dividend 
of 2.00 pence. 
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2015 has been another good year for Marshalls 
and that we are well placed to make further progress in the year ahead. 
All of our businesses have performed well, achieving significant growth 
in revenue and profitability with benefits arising from favourable 
market conditions and strong operational gearing. Since the half year, 
the Group has entered the FTSE 250, which further demonstrates the 
continuing progress in the business.
Our core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability generate 
a strong underpin for all we do and provide a foundation on which to 
build for the future. Our primary objective is to improve profitability 
and to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Results
Marshalls’ revenue is up 8 per cent to £386.2 million for the year 
and profit before tax is up 57 per cent to £35.3 million. The Group’s 
earnings per share at 14.32 pence is up 41 per cent. These results 
reflect our focus on customer service, the strength of the Marshalls 
brand, our range of innovative quality products and the improved 
performance of our smaller businesses. 
Dividends
The Board recognises the importance of dividends to our 
shareholders. Marshalls has strong cash generation and a robust 
balance sheet and this supports our progressive dividend policy. 
As previously stated, the Group maintains the objective of achieving 
up to 2 times dividend cover over the business cycle. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 4.75 pence (2014: 4.00 pence) per 
share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.25 pence (2014: 
2.00 pence) per share, represents a total ordinary dividend of 7.00 
pence (2014: 6.00 pence) per share.
In addition, in light of the Group's strong free cash flow, the Board has 
reviewed its approach to dividends in order to ensure we maintain an 
efficient and prudent capital structure which looks to provide increased 
returns to shareholders whilst at the same time retaining flexibility for 
capital and other investment opportunities. As a result, the Board is 
declaring a supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share this year; 
this supplementary dividend is discretionary and non-recurring.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplementary dividends comprise 
an aggregate distribution for the year of 9.00 pence per share. The final 
ordinary dividend of 4.75 pence per ordinary share will, subject to the 
shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016, 
be paid alongside the supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share 
on 8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 3 June 2016.
Building for now and the future
Our objective is to deliver sustainable growth in 
shareholder value based on our vision to establish 
Marshalls as a world-class hard landscape business. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Strategy
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the Board in 
relation to the formulation of strategy. Our objective is to deliver sustainable 
growth in shareholder value based on our vision to establish Marshalls as a 
world-class hard landscape business. We have returned to pre-recession 
profitability which completes Phase 1 of our strategy. Phase 2 charts our 
strategy to 2020 and is outlined in the Chief Executive's Statement.
Key relationships are particularly important and Marshalls’ success 
is critically dependent on the positive interaction between the 
Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Marshalls brand remains central to our strategy and the Group 
has again received “Superbrand” status for 2016. Marshalls is a benchmark 
for excellence and the 3 cornerstone themes of customer service, 
quality and sustainability remain essential to the brand and put the 
customer at the very heart of our business. Continual innovation 
and new product development remain key priorities. 
Governance
As a Board we are committed to promoting the highest standards 
of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders. We continue to comply with all of the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code as outlined in our Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41.
This year’s Annual Report further develops the improvements that we 
introduced last year and contains a number of additional features that 
aim to improve clarity for shareholders. We believe this will continue 
to ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects.
In my report last year I set out a number of specific Board actions 
for 2015 including further consideration of strategic issues, increasing 
focus on dynamic risk reporting, identifying particular business areas 
for closer review and increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors 
to meet senior management below Board level through a programme 
of site visits. I am pleased to report that all of these commitments 
have been addressed and significant progress has been made in 
all areas. The Board continues to maintain an open and transparent 
culture and no restrictions or pressures are placed on Board members 
that could result in views or opinions not being expressed. 
The Group aims to be transparent throughout its operations and I am 
pleased that, during 2015, Marshalls has been awarded the Fair Tax 
Mark for responsible tax behaviour and transparency in its tax affairs. 
Board development is a constant priority and we continue to challenge 
the effectiveness of the Board against detailed and continually developing 
performance criteria. During the year, an internal evaluation of Board 
performance was conducted by the Group Company Secretary. The 
review sought to improve the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and 
of individual Directors. I am pleased to report that no areas of material 
concern were highlighted although a number of areas were identified 
for improvement during 2016. These include further consideration of 
longer-term strategy planning, risk management and business resilience. 
Additional consideration will also be given to Board succession planning 
along with greater focus on succession planning below Board level. I will 
report on progress against these initiatives next year.
Innovation
We combine clever engineering and technology 
with imaginative ways to save time and costs 
across all disciplines, from innovative paving 
options, to sustainable urban drainage 
systems and the very latest in creative street 
furniture solutions.
Under our Remuneration Policy, the management receives a large 
proportion of their remuneration in shares which must be retained 
for up to 5 years. This ensures a strong alignment between the interests 
of management and our shareholders. I am also delighted that we 
have launched the Marshalls 2015 Sharesave scheme which encourages 
wider ownership of Marshalls plc shares across the entire workforce. 
The scheme gives employees the option in the future to buy shares 
at a discounted price and has been extremely well received. 
Board changes
Alan Coppin is retiring from the Board following the Annual General 
Meeting in May 2016, having served as Non-Executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee since May 2010. He has demonstrated strong 
independence of thinking and has been a wise and supportive 
counsel to me in his role as Senior Independent Director. I would like 
to thank Alan for his significant contribution over the last 6 years.
In March 2015 I was delighted to welcome Janet Ashdown to the Board. 
Janet is a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc and the Coventry Building 
Society and has a wide range of skills and experience. She was also 
recently appointed to the Board of the Nuclear Decommissioning 
Authority. Following Alan Coppin’s retirement from the Board, Janet 
will become the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee.
People
Marshalls has an outstanding group of employees and we continue 
to place great importance on employee engagement. Our objective 
is to provide successful careers for our employees and opportunities 
for development and personal growth. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank all our employees for their professionalism and their 
ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls. 
Outlook
The Group is well positioned to achieve further growth and looking 
ahead I remain very optimistic. Market conditions are forecast to 
be positive for the next few years. We have a clear strategy, a strong 
management team, an excellent workforce and a significant opportunity. 
I am therefore looking forward to further growth in the year ahead.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Corporate Governance page 36 36 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Statement
Summary
 — Profit before tax up 57% to £35.3 million with 
significant benefits from operational gearing.
 — Significant performance improvement 
in our smaller UK businesses.
 — Focused on innovation and new 
product development to strengthen 
the Marshalls brand. 
 — Committed to maintaining the highest 
health and safety standards.
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Introduction
2015 has been a good year for Marshalls with significant revenue and profit 
growth. Trading conditions remain positive and the Group continues to 
experience strong order intake and sales growth. 
Our core Public Sector and Commercial and Domestic businesses delivered 
strong performances without any significant increases to the Group’s cost 
base as we continue to deliver benefits from operational gearing. Our 
network of manufacturing sites continues to have sufficient capacity to 
absorb medium-term demand as well as the flexibility for further capacity 
and capability investment. There has also been a significant performance 
improvement in our smaller UK businesses during 2015 and they 
collectively delivered year on year growth in revenue of £8.7 million and 
operating profit of £2.4 million. These businesses include Street Furniture, 
Mineral Products and Stone Cladding, all of which are now profitable. 
Marshalls has a strong market position and continues to be a leading, trusted 
brand with clear values and excellent environmental credentials. The core 
values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability continue to be at 
the heart of the Marshalls brand. Marshalls plc was the winner of the “Best 
Construction and Materials PLC” category at the 2015 UK Stock Market Awards.
2015 trading summary
Marshalls’ revenue for the year ended 31 December 2015 increased 
8 per cent at £386.2 million (2014: £358.5 million). 
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market were up 11 per cent 
for the year, compared with 2014, and sales to the Domestic end market were 
up 4 per cent. The survey of domestic installers at the end of February 2016 
revealed order books of 10.5 weeks (February 2015: 9.0 weeks). 
Adjusting for currency movements, International revenue has grown by 
3 per cent during 2015 and represents approximately 5 per cent of Group 
sales. Due to the adverse movement in exchange rates, however, this 
translated to a fall of 5 per cent once converted into Sterling. Although 
the market in Europe remains more challenging, the Group delivered 
continued progress in developing its International business during the 
year, and has opened a sales office in Dubai to facilitate further sales 
growth in the Middle East. 
Profit before tax increased by 57 per cent to £35.3 million 
(2014: £22.4 million) and EBITDA increased by 35 per cent to £51.8 million 
(2014: £38.5 million). Basic EPS from continuing operations was 14.32 pence 
(2014: 10.13 pence), an increase of 41 per cent. Return on capital employed 
(“ROCE”) was 19.0 per cent, which represents an increase of 52 per cent. 
Significant cash generation has seen the Group’s net debt fall 
to £11.5 million (2014: £30.5 million).
Driving growth
The Group’s strategy is to grow the business organically and 
selectively through acquisitions, improving the Group’s return 
on capital employed and operating profit margins. This will 
be supported by the 2020 strategy. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Growing our business
We are growing our business both organically 
and selectively through acquisitions.
Delivering the 2020 strategy
To achieve our revenue growth the Group will target organic growth 
in all core business lines. This will be driven by our focus on innovation 
and new product development. We will also seek to extend our 
product range to provide more integrated solutions and look to use 
our digital strategy to better the customer experience. We will also 
further strengthen our logistics and distribution capabilities through 
investment. Prices will cover any cost increases during the period to 
2020. Any acquisition activity will be on top of this organic growth.
Work has commenced on a number of capital investments. Good 
opportunities are being developed which will provide a timely payback. 
These investments will total £15 million and be made over the next 
2 - 3 years. They will deliver cost savings of £5 million per annum and 
are in addition to our normal annual capital expenditure programme.
Greater focus has been given to the smaller UK businesses and they 
are all delivering increased profitability. These businesses have good 
future potential. We believe we can grow our market share through 
excellent customer service and targeted investment in these businesses.
There has been success in the last few years with our new product 
development. The Group will continue to focus on innovation and 
new product development to drive sales growth. Commercial 
demand for Water Management, Street Furniture, Rail and New Build 
Housing is increasing and all these businesses have developed 
new products that have been recently introduced in their markets. 
The Group’s new range of water management products and 
sustainable drainage systems demonstrates innovative thinking and 
could have an important part to play in reducing the risk of flooding. 
The new Drexus linear drainage system is being launched for 2016 
along with a new and innovative range of paving products that 
incorporate new surface technology.
In the core Landscape Products business, revenue from new products 
increased by 14 per cent during 2015. The current development 
pipeline remains very strong and the Group has committed further 
investment to research and development over the medium term 
to drive innovation and new product development. 
The Group continues to pursue acquisition opportunities in the 
focus areas of Water Management, Street Furniture and Mineral 
Products. A shortlist has been developed and there are ongoing 
discussions. We have discounted certain targets due to unrealistic 
price expectation and lack of fit. There remains a positive pipeline 
of good opportunities.
Current priorities and operational strategy
Operational priorities are service, quality, design, innovation and 
sustainability and the Group continues to deliver the benefits of 
improved product mix and an integrated product offering. The objective 
remains to continually strengthen the Marshalls brand by ensuring a 
consistently high standard of quality and customer service. Marshalls 
continues to have customer service as a key KPI and we maintain industry 
leading standards of product quality, availability and “on-time” delivery. 
The Group's combined customer service measure continued to be in 
excess of 98 per cent throughout 2015.
The Group’s Domestic strategy is to drive sales through approved domestic 
installers. The Marshalls Register has grown by 5 per cent in the last year 
to 1,862 teams and consistently provides high standards of quality and 
a market-leading level of service.
Marshalls’ wide-ranging digital strategy is a key priority and further 
investment is being directed to enhancing capability and digital 
support throughout the business, including product design and 
customer service. The Group’s strategic initiatives are set out in detail 
in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 17.
In September 2015, Marshalls opened its new office “Design Space” 
in Clerkenwell, London. This is an important initiative for the Group 
and the facility was created specifically with architects and designers 
in mind. The location is at the centre of the highest concentration 
of architects in the UK and has a wide range of materials and finishes 
on display to help inspire and assist them in making specification 
decisions. The architects and designers are a key part of the route 
to market for Marshalls.
Manufacturing efficiency
We continue to focus on improving manufacturing efficiency. In the 
UK, the Group has a unique manufacturing network of 13 concrete 
manufacturing sites as well as quarries producing paving, walling 
and cladding products. This national network provides unrivalled 
geographic coverage and this continues to provide the Group with 
a distinct competitive advantage with all of the Group’s operations 
supported by a centrally managed logistics and distribution capability. 
Well invested capital equipment provides the flexibility to 
manufacture products for both the Public Sector and Commercial 
and the Domestic end markets and this operational flexibility 
remains a key focus for the Group. Marshalls employs a world-class 
Manufacturing, Innovation and Development team of engineers 
and technicians which creates competitive advantage by combining 
machinery design and installation with process improvement. 
This capability enabled the Group to accelerate new product 
development across the business.
The Group operates its own fleet of 44-tonne delivery vehicles 
equipped with crane offloading capability and state-of-the-art 
technology, including 360-degree CCTV systems and audible 
manoeuvring alerts. The Group remains committed to improving 
the quality and safety of the working environment by maintaining 
the highest health and safety standards. 
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12
Strategic Report
Economic market background 
The key fundamentals for the sector remain positive with construction 
growth becoming more balanced. Private housing work, especially in 
London and the South East, provided the majority of growth between 
2012 and 2015. Going forward, however, the 3 largest construction 
sectors of private housing, commercial and infrastructure are all 
expected to drive industry growth.
In January 2015, the CP A forecast solid UK GDP growth in 2016 and 
2017, despite a slowdown in economic activity in the second half of 
2015. The ONS’s preliminary estimate for GDP growth in quarter 4 was 
0.5 per cent. The CPA’s GDP forecast for 2016 is growth of 2.2 per cent 
and that construction output in 2016 will rise by 3.6 per cent. 
For the Domestic end market, the key factors that drive activity are 
property transactions and consumer spending on large ticket items. 
Increasing housing equity and savings are enablers of activity in 
the sector as they are used as sources of finance for housing repair 
maintenance and improvement activity. The CP A has reported that in 
2015, the Private Housing Repair, Maintenance and Improvement sector 
was worth an estimated £17 billion. In terms of funding streams 
for this work, the Office for Budget Responsibility (“OBR”) forecast 
that house prices will rise 4.8 per cent and 4.7 per cent in 2016 and 
2017 respectively. 
Consumer confidence has remained strong throughout 2015 with the 
indications showing improvement, especially in early 2015.
For 2015, GDP in the Eurozone is estimated to have risen by 1.5 per cent 
and growth in 2016 is expected to be the same, primarily due to rising 
domestic demand.
Markets
Marshalls continues to focus on innovation
The outlook remains strong with the CPA’s current forecast for 
construction output standing at 3.6 per cent growth in 2016 
and growth of 4. 1 per cent, 4.2 per cent and 4.0 per cent in the 
following 3 years. 
Market 
Public Sector and Commercial
Marshalls continues to be the only landscape products company able 
to provide a fully integrated product offer to the Public Sector and 
Commercial end market. The Group focuses on developing products 
which help architects, local authorities, engineers and contractors to 
“Create Better Spaces” , whether it is street furniture, natural stone, 
concrete block paving, water management, lighting or protective 
anti-terrorist products. The Group continues to invest in product 
innovation, sales and technical resource for those parts of the market 
where it anticipates most growth, in particular in Water Management, 
New Build Housing and Rail Infrastructure. 
The CPA’s overall view is that in the short term it is private housing 
and infrastructure that will drive growth in construction output. 
Private housing starts are forecast to rise 5.0 per cent in 2016 and 
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
0.00
-10.00
-20.00
-30.00
-40.00
-50.00
Jan 2006
Jan 2007
Jan 2008
Jan 2009
Jan 2010
Jan 2011
Jan 2012
Jan 2013
Jan 2014
Jan 2015
Jan 2016
Consumer confidence indicators – 10 years
Research carried out by GFK NOP on behalf of the European Commission
 Index confidence  50K+ confidence  Major purchases
 Actual  Forecast
150,000
140,000
130,000
120,000
110,000
100,000
90,000
Jan 2006
Jan 2007
Jan 2008
Jan 2009
Jan 2010
Jan 2011
Jan 2012
Jan 2013
Jan 2014
Jan 2015
Jan 2017
Jan 2016
UK construction all work actual 
and current forecast (CPA)
£’m Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Public Sector and Commercial
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market, Marshalls 
focuses on developing products which help architects, local 
authorities, housebuilders and contractors to “Create Better 
Spaces” , whether in street furniture, natural stone paving for 
the internal or external environment, concrete block paving, 
water management or anti-terrorist products. 
The Group continues to invest in product innovation, 
sales and technical resource for those parts of the market 
where it anticipates most growth, in particular in Water 
Management, New Build Housing and Rail Infrastructure. 
The CPA’s overall view is that in the short term it is private 
housing and infrastructure that will drive growth in 
construction output. 
a further 5.0 per cent in 2017, buoyed by a high latent demand 
for home ownership, helped by rising mortgage lending and 
Government policies such as the London “Help to Buy” scheme, 
the Starter Homes programme and the Help to Buy ISA. These policies 
are likely to fuel house price inflation further (especially in the 
South East) whilst also incentivising major housebuilders to increase 
building programmes over the next 12 - 18 months. 
The CPA forecasts that activity in the infrastructure sector is set to rise 
56.9 per cent by 2019 with significant growth in rail, energy, roads, 
water and sewerage activity as major projects across the sector add 
to rising general work levels. Rail Infrastructure will be primarily 
driven by Network Rail general activity but also boosted by HS2. 
Road construction is forecast to rise by 37.2 per cent by 2019.
The Group has experienced technical and sales teams focused on 
the key growth areas and by working with clients, architects and 
contractors they are able to provide a unique project overview 
and offer a complete solution comprising a full suite of products. 
Strengthening relationships with clients, architects and contractors 
and the developing of systems to identify projects are key priorities. 
The visibility of projects through externally measured sources such as 
Barbour ABI has historically provided a reliable picture of future demand. 
It consolidates planning information for all the sub sectors requiring 
hard landscaping. On average, there is a 12-month lag between 
contracts being awarded and the landscape products being required, 
so it provides 12-month advance information on likely future 
demand. 
£350 million
£330 million
£310 million
£290 million
£270 million
£250 million
£230 million
£210 million
£190 million
£170 million
£150 million
Jan 2005
Jan 2006
Jan 2007
Jan 2008
Jan 2009
Jan 2010
Jan 2011
Jan 2012
Jan 2013
Jan 2014
Jan 2015
Jan 2017
Jan 2016
Contract awarded 12 month rolling average 
of hard landscape value
Fletcher Bank Sandstone Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14
Strategic Report
Markets continued
Domestic
Marshalls’ Domestic customers range from professional 
landscapers, driveway installers and garden designers 
to DIY enthusiasts. 
The Group is committed to offering homeowners the 
inspiration, information and ranges needed to choose the 
best possible products for their patio or driveway makeovers.
The target customer groups for installed patios and 
driveways occupy 8.7 million homes, a far bigger potential 
market than New Build. 
Pension release is having a positive impact on the home 
improvement market; in the last 3 quarters of 2015 188,000 over 
55s took a total of £3.5 billion in cash out of their pension pots, 
with 32 per cent of this being spent on home improvements.
Market continued
Domestic
Marshalls’ Domestic customers range from professional landscapers, 
driveway installers and garden designers to DIY enthusiasts. The Group 
is committed to offering homeowners the inspiration, information 
and ranges needed to choose the best possible products for their 
patio or driveway makeovers.
The target customer groups for installed patios and driveways occupy 
8.7 million homes, a far bigger potential market than New Build. 
These customers are generally older, have equity in their property, 
earn more and often have savings. An ageing population is combining 
with a lifestyle trend towards more outdoor living and the “outdoor 
room” . Through marketing and product development the Group 
continues to promote solutions to meet the aspirations of these 
customer groups. Pension release is having a positive impact on the 
home improvement market; in the last 3 quarters of 2015 188,000 
over 55s took a total of £3.5 billion in cash out of their pension pots, 
with 32 per cent of this being spent on home improvements.
The Group’s Domestic strategy is to drive more sales through quality 
installers and membership of the Marshalls Register grew in 2015. 
Further increase is planned in 2016. The Marshalls Register remains 
the largest installer scheme in the UK. Marshalls continues to focus 
on product innovation with a developing product portfolio helping 
installers to finish jobs more quickly. 
The Marshalls Register 
remains the largest 
installer scheme 
in the UK.”
Marshalls Pavesys Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
International
Internationally, Marshalls has placed a key geographic focus on 
northern Europe, North America and the Middle East. 
In mainland Europe, the Group’s strategy in the Domestic end 
market is to be a niche, premium product supplier. The Group’s 
manufacturing site in Belgium provides a physical stock location in 
mainland Europe from which to supply the wider Group’s specialist 
product portfolio. The aim is to supply products that are not readily 
available in mainland Europe. There are over 40 million people living 
within a 2-hour drive from the site, an area that covers Belgium, 
Holland, northern France and parts of Germany. 
Marshalls now has a sales presence in North America and is supplying 
natural stone to commercial projects using distribution relationships 
with US companies. 
In 2015, Marshalls supplied a number of high profile projects in the 
Middle East, in particular focusing on driving sales in the United Arab 
Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar. A new sales office has been recently 
established in Dubai to facilitate further growth in the region.
120 13.0
115 12.0
110 11.0
105 10.0
100 9.0
95 8.0
90 7.0
Jan 2016
Jan 2015
Feb 2014
Feb 2015
Mar 2014
Mar 2015
Apr 2014
Apr 2015
May 2014
May 2015
Jun 2014
Jun 2015
Jul 2014
Jul 2015
Aug 2014
Aug 2015
Sep 2014
Sep 2015
Oct 2014
Oct 2015
Dec 2014
Dec 2015
Nov 2014
Nov 2015
Installer order books & domestic sales volume (index)
All Domestic Products Sales Volume MAT - Index
Installer order books 
(Average number of weeks’ work)
 MLP domestic MAT - index Jan 2014  Installer order books (last value)  Order books linear trend
Internationally, 
Marshalls has placed a 
key geographic focus 
on northern Europe, 
North America and 
the Middle East.” Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
Strategic Report
Shareholder value
To deliver sustainable shareholder value by 
improving the long-term operating 
performance of the business.
Sustainable profitability
To maintain a strong market position and 
grow the business profitability in all the 
Group’s end markets.
Relationship building
To develop relationships with key 
stakeholders, customers and installers.
Strategy
Focused on growth
Our future targets 
 — To make strategic investments for 
organic growth and acquisitions.
 — To have a progressive 
dividend policy.
 — To deliver sustainable EPS and 
operating cash flow growth.
 — To grow EBITDA.
Our future targets 
 — To deliver strategic growth initiatives.
 — To improve product mix 
and promotion of new 
value-added products.
 — To improve operational 
efficiency of manufacturing 
and distribution network.
Our future targets 
 — To promote integrated 
product offer.
 — To focus on installer training, 
marketing and sales support.
 — To be an employer of choice.
 — To maintain ethical and 
sustainable policies.
 — To be a system provider. 
What we have achieved 
 — Substantial increase in share price 
during the year.
 — Entry to FTSE 250.
 — Growth in ROCE to 19.0%.
 — Market share gains.
 — Supplementary dividend.
What we have achieved 
 — 48% growth in operating profit 
driven by operational gearing.
 — Increase in operating profit 
percentage to 9.7% (2014: 7.1%).
 — 14% growth in sales of new 
products in the core business.
What we have achieved 
 — Strengthened customer 
relationships.
 — 98% customer service KPI.
 — Integrated “landscaping solutions” . 
 — Opening of Design Space office in 
Central London.
 — Over 1,800 registered installer teams.
Key Performance Indicators page 18 18 Risks page 20 20
Left – Loci Street Furniture 
Middle – Brentford Marketplace, Essex 
Right – Trustone Paviors, Fellstyle Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Organic expansion
To invest in selective synergistic acquisitions 
and organic expansion in existing and related 
markets and product categories to expand  
the business.
Brand development
To strengthen and extend the Marshalls 
brand by focusing on innovation, service and 
new product development.
Effective capital structure 
and control framework
To maintain efficient and effective business 
controls and to ensure that the capital 
structure remains aligned with the Group’s 
corporate growth objectives.
Our future targets 
 — To target growth areas such 
as Water Management, Street 
Furniture, Rail and New Build Housing.
 — To increase capital expenditure.
 — To maintain a national network of 
manufacturing and distribution sites. 
 — To extend global reach into specific 
targeted areas such as the Middle 
East and North America.
Our future targets 
 — To maintain the Group’s 
market-leading position.
 — To focus on innovation, customer 
service and product quality.
 — To increase technical R&D. 
 — To maintain the highest health 
and safety standards.
Our future targets 
 — To maintain a flexible capital 
structure that recognises cyclical 
risk, focusing on security, efficiency 
and liquidity.
 — To target a net debt to EBITDA ratio 
of between 1 and 2 times over the 
business cycle.
 — To operate tight control over 
business, operational and 
financial procedures.
What we have achieved 
 — Revenue growth of 8% to 
£386.2 million.
 — Significant growth in key focus 
areas and smaller UK businesses.
 — Increased capacity whilst 
maintaining operational flexibility.
 — Opened sales office in Dubai.
What we have achieved 
 — “Superbrand” status.
 — Full integration of Marshalls brand.
 — Improved integration in 
marketing collateral.
 — Established the new Marshalls 
“Stone Standard” . Marshalls 
exceeds the standard.
What we have achieved 
 — Net debt reduced to £11.5 million.
 — Efficient portfolio of bank facilities 
with extended maturities and 
realigned headroom. 
 — Continued focus on working 
capital management and efficient 
inventory control.
Remuneration page 46 46 Sustainability page 24 24
Left – Street Furniture Customer Showroom 
Middle – Cordara, Iberian Oak 
Right –York Minster Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18
Strategic Report
Key Performance Indicators
The Group's KPIs monitor progress towards the achievement of its objectives. 
All of the Group's strategic KPIs have improved significantly during 201 5.
Operating profit £'m
£37.5m+48%
2013
16.1
2011
15.0
2012
12.9
2014
25.3
2015
37.5
Operating profit has increased by 48.0 per cent to £37.5 million in 
2015. The Group's strong operational gearing has driven an increase 
in reported operating margin from 7.1 per cent to 9.7 per cent, which 
represents an increase of 36.6 per cent. 
The Group focuses on innovation and new product development 
in order to improve product mix and increase value-added sales.
The Group focuses on sales opportunities and strategic 
growth opportunities.
The Group continues to focus on strategic investment 
for both organic and acquisitive growth.
EPS p
14.32p+41%
2013
6.94
2011
5.66
2012
5.52
2014
10.13
2015
14.32
Group EPS has increased by 41.4 per cent in 2015 to 
14.32 pence. Significant EPS growth is a strategic target.
ROCE %
19.0%+52%
2013
8.1
2011
5.3
2012
5.2
2014
12.5
2015
19.0
Group ROCE is 19.0 per cent for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
which represents an increase of 52.0 per cent during the year. The 
strategic target is for ROCE to be at least 15 per cent. ROCE is defined 
as EBITA / shareholders' funds plus net debt.
Performance and targets
Risk management
Revenue £'m
£386.2m+8%
2013
307.4
2011
325.1
2012
300.9
2014
358.5
2015
386.2
Group revenue has increased by 7.7 per cent in 2015. Public Sector 
and Commercial revenue has grown by 10.8 per cent in 2015 and 
Domestic revenue has increased by 3.6 per cent.
The Group closely monitors trends and lead indicators and continues 
to benefit from the diversity of its business and end markets.
Performance and targets
Risk management Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Shareholder value
Organic expansion
Net debt £'m
£1 1.5m
Dividend per share (recommended) p
7.00p+16.7%
(+ 2.00p supplementary)
2013
35.6
2011
77.1
2012
63.5
2014
30.5
2015
11.5
The Group's strategic target is for the ratio of net debt to EBITDA to be 
between 1 and 2 times over the business cycle. At 31 December 2015 
the ratio was 0.2 times.
The Group maintains a conservative financial profile that recognises 
cyclical risk and a flexible capital structure that can respond to 
market changes.
2013
5.25
2011
5.25
2012
5.25
2014
6.00
2015
7.00
A progressive dividend policy remains a key objective, with the 
continuing strategy of maintaining up to 2 times cover over the 
business cycle. On an IFRS basis, the dividends declared in the year 
ended 31 December 2015 are 6.25 pence.
The final dividend recommended is 4.75 pence per share which, 
including the interim dividend of 2.25 pence, gives a total for the year 
of 7.00 pence. For the year ended 31 December 2015 a supplementary 
dividend of 2.00 pence per share is being recommended.
Customer service Customer service index 
98%
Target
95
Achieved
98
Customer service lies at the heart of the Marshalls brand. The Group's 
customer service index combines measures of product availability, 
on-time delivery performance and administrative and delivery 
accuracy. The Group's customer service index target is 95 per cent.
The Group focuses on quality, service, reliability and ethical 
standards that differentiate Marshalls from its competitors. 
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest health and 
safety standards for all its employees and continually strives 
to improve the quality and safety of the working environment. 
The headline target for 2015 was a 10 per cent reduction in days 
lost resulting from workplace incidents against 2014.
The Group employs compliance procedures and policies which seek 
to ensure that local, national and international health and safety 
controls are fully complied with.
Health and safety Reduction in working days lost
43%
Target
10
Achieved
43
Performance and targets
Strategic objectives
Performance and targets
Risk management
Risk management
Sustainable profitability
Brand development Relationship building
Effective capital structure 
and control framework
2.00 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20
Strategic Report
Risk Management and Principal Risks
Managing risk to deliver strategic objectives
Approach to risk management
Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is a key factor in 
the delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives. The Board establishes the 
culture of effective risk management and is responsible for maintaining 
appropriate systems and controls. The Board sets the risk appetite and 
determines the policies and procedures that are put in place to mitigate 
exposure to risks.
Process
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse  
risks and those of a potentially significant nature are included in the 
Group Risk Register. During 2015, the Risk Register process has been 
independently reviewed by KPMG, in its capacity as the Group’s 
internal auditor, and a number of design improvements have been 
incorporated. The conclusion of this review has been that the process 
continues to be a robust mechanism for monitoring and controlling 
the Group’s principal risks. 
The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every  
6 months by management and twice a year by the Board, and the 
overall process is the subject of regular review. Risks are recorded with 
a full analysis and risk owners are nominated who have authority and 
responsibility for assessing and managing the risk. All risks are aligned 
with the Group’s strategic objectives and each risk is analysed for 
impact and probability to determine exposure and impact to the 
business, and the determination of a “gross risk score” enables risk 
exposure to be prioritised. External risks include the weather, political 
and economic conditions, the effect of legislation or other regulatory 
actions, the actions of competitors, foreign exchange, raw material 
prices and threats from cyber security, new technologies and 
business models. Internal risks include investment in new products, 
new business strategies and acquisitions. Environmental and 
sustainability considerations are also taken into account.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, financial 
and operational risk, both external and internal. The effectiveness of 
key mitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls 
are subjected to internal audit and periodic testing in order to 
provide independent verification where this is deemed appropriate. 
The effectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated and this is 
used to determine a “net risk score” for each risk. The process is used to 
develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond to, the risks 
and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the 
Group’s Audit Committee.
Framework
The Board:
 — determines the Group’s approach to risk, its policies and the 
procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
The Audit Committee:
 — has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk 
management and internal controls;
 — reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control procedures; and
 — monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function and 
the independence of the external audit.
Operational managers:
 — are responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks;
 — are responsible for ownership and control of specific risks; and
 — are responsible for establishing and managing the 
implementation of appropriate action plans.
Executive Directors:
 — are responsible for the 
effective maintenance of 
the Group’s Risk Register;
 — oversee the management  
of risk;
 — monitor risk mitigation  
and controls; and
 — monitor the effective 
implementation of  
action plans.
Internal audit:
 — undertakes independent 
reviews of effectiveness of 
internal control procedures;
 — reports on effectiveness of 
management actions; and
 — provides assurance to the 
Audit Committee. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Macro-economic and political 
The Group is dependent on  
the level of activity in its end 
markets. Accordingly, it is 
susceptible to economic 
downturn and the impact  
of Government policy. 
The availability of credit 
to the Group's customers 
is a key determinant of 
economic activity. 
The lower activity levels could 
reduce sales and production 
volumes and, therefore, could have 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group closely monitors trends 
and lead indicators, invests in 
market research and is an active 
member of the CPA. 
The Group benefits from the 
diversity of its business and 
end markets. 
The Group focuses on sales 
opportunities and strategic growth 
initiatives, together with quality, 
service and its supply chain.
Economic risk has reduced as economic 
and sector outlook and growth rates 
have improved. 
There continues to be growth potential 
in certain focus areas, e.g. Rail, Water 
Management and Street Furniture, and 
forward indicators in the core business 
remain positive.
The economic outlook for the Eurozone 
continues to be difficult, although proactive 
development of the product range 
continues to be positive.
Weather 
The Group is exposed to the 
impact of prolonged periods 
of bad weather.
The lower activity levels could 
reduce sales and production 
volumes and, therefore, could have 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group has a continuing focus 
on new product development, 
including landscape water 
management.
The Group is developing its internal 
flooring offer and developing its 
international strategy in order to 
diversify its activities.
Weather conditions are totally 
beyond the Group’s control.
Customers 
The UK business has a number 
of key customers, in particular 
the national merchants. This 
is partly as a result of the 
consolidated nature of 
this market.
The loss of a significant customer 
may give rise to a significant 
adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group focuses on brand and 
new product development, quality 
and customer service improvement.
The Group maintains a national 
network of manufacturing and 
distribution sites.
The Group undertakes ongoing 
reviews of trading policies and 
relationships and maintains 
constant communication  
with customers.
Although the underlying risk 
continues, the effective 
management of key relationships 
and the ongoing diversification 
of the business are serving to 
mitigate the risk.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Directors have undertaken a robust, systematic assessment of the 
Group’s principal risks. These have been considered within the timeframe 
of 3 years, which aligns with our Viability Statement (page 23).
Shareholder value Organic expansion
Strategic objectives
Sustainable profitability Brand development
Relationship building Effective capital structure 
and control framework Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22
Strategic Report
Risk Management and Principal Risks continued
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Competitor activity 
The Group has a number 
of existing competitors 
who compete on range, price, 
quality and service. 
Potential new low cost 
competitors may be attracted 
into the market through 
increased demand for imported 
natural stone products.
The increased competition 
could reduce volumes and 
margins on manufactured 
and traded products.
The Group has unique selling points 
that differentiate the Marshalls brand. 
The Group focuses on quality, 
service, reliability and ethical 
standards that differentiate Marshalls 
from competitor products. 
The Group continues to have  
the lowest cost to market. 
The Group has a continuing focus 
on new product development. 
The improved market outlook 
has increased demand (relative 
to available supply) and this has 
led to a reduction in such 
competitive pressure.
There is continuing demand 
for imported natural stone 
products, although Marshalls’ 
brand development and 
product differentiation 
continue to mitigate the risk.
Threat from new technologies and new business models 
Reduction in demand 
for traditional products. 
Risk of new competitors 
and new substitute 
products appearing. 
Failure to react to 
market developments.
The increased competition could 
reduce volumes and margins on 
traditional products.
Good market intelligence.
Flexible business strategy able to 
embrace new technologies.
Significant focus on research and 
development and new products.
Development of a digital strategy.
The ongoing diversification  
of the business and the 
continued development of the 
Marshalls brand continue to 
mitigate the risk.
Cost and availability of raw materials 
The Group is susceptible to 
significant increases in the  
price of raw materials, utilities, 
fuel oil, haulage costs and 
vehicle availability.
As demand increases, the Group 
is potentially more exposed to 
the risk of temporary raw 
material shortages. 
The increased costs could reduce 
margins and may be further 
impacted in the event of imbalances 
in the mix of regional activity.
The risk of market demand 
exceeding raw material supply could 
lead to inefficient production, which 
could reduce margins.
The Group benefits from the diversity  
of its business and end markets. 
The Group focuses on its supplier 
relationships, flexible contracts and 
the use of hedging instruments. 
The Group utilises sales pricing and 
purchasing policies designed to  
mitigate the risks. 
The Group uses specialist  
delivery vehicles.
Cost inflation remains a 
risk as demand for raw 
materials increases.
The improved market outlook 
has increased demand (relative 
to available supply), but the risk 
of temporary shortages has 
stabilised due to proactive 
supply chain management and 
the use of alternative suppliers.
 
IT infrastructure 
Disruption to the IT environment 
could affect the Group's ability to 
conduct its ongoing operations.
Ineffective procedures could lead to 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results. 
All IT system development projects 
are actively and carefully planned 
with defined governance and 
control procedures. 
Regular independent risk and project 
management audits are undertaken.
The Group ensures that industry 
standards are adopted and disaster 
recovery plans and procedures exist 
and are regularly tested.
The continued investment in 
and maintenance of IT systems 
across the Group give rise to 
good control of this risk.
Cyber security risks 
Inadequate controls and 
procedures over the protection 
of intellectual property, sensitive 
employee information and 
market-influencing data.
Risk of data loss – financial and 
reputational risk.
Use of IT security policies.
Restructured IT department 
to co-ordinate the stewardship 
of cyber security risks. 
Sensitive data is currently restricted  
to selected senior and experienced 
employees who are used to handling 
such data. 
Where sensitive data is made available  
to third parties it is done under 
confidentiality agreements with 
reputable suppliers.
Currently a high profile area and 
considerable focus is being 
given to promoting awareness 
of IT security policies. 
Appropriate tools and training 
procedures are in place to 
protect sensitive data when 
stored and transmitted between 
parties (e.g. encryption of hard 
drives, restricted USB devices, 
secure data transmission 
mechanisms and third-party 
security audits). Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Environmental 
The impact of the “Environmental 
Protocol” leads to the need for 
increasingly expensive processes.
An environmental contamination 
event may lead to a prosecution 
and to reputational loss.
An incident could lead to disruption 
to production and to financial 
penalties as well as a potential 
negative impact on the 
Group's reputation.
The Group uses professional specialists 
covering carbon reduction, water 
management and biodiversity. 
The Group focuses on the 
implementation of ISO standards.
The Group has a formal Group 
sustainability strategy focusing 
on impact reduction.
The Group is unable to  
predict future changes in 
environmental laws or  
policies or the ultimate cost  
of compliance with such  
laws or policies.
Corporate, legal and regulatory 
The Group may be adversely 
affected by an unexpected 
reputational event, for example, 
in its ethical supply chain or due 
to a health and safety incident.
An incident could lead to a 
disruption to the supply of products 
for customers and to increased 
costs as well as a potential negative 
impact on the Group's reputation.
Significant increases in the penalty 
regime have increased the potential 
financial impact of health and 
safety incidents.
The Group employs compliance 
procedures, policies and independent 
audit processes which seek to ensure 
that local, national and international 
regulatory and compliance procedures 
are fully complied with. 
The extension of the  
Group’s activities into new 
international markets  
causes this risk to continue, 
notwithstanding the 
additional compliance 
procedures within the  
supply chain. 
Health and safety and the 
potential impact of the Bribery 
Act continue to be high profile 
risk areas.
Access to funding 
The Group continues to require 
debt funding in order to meet its 
trading obligations and to grow 
the business.
Insufficient access to funding could 
limit the Group’s ability to achieve 
the desired levels of growth. 
The Group has significant committed 
facilities in place, with a good spread 
of medium-term maturities and 
significant headroom. 
The Group’s policy continues to be to 
arrange funding ahead of requirements 
and to maintain sufficient undrawn 
committed bank facilities.
The improved economic 
outlook and the Group’s 
reduced gearing have 
continued to reduce this risk. 
There is also improved liquidity 
and increased competition 
within the banking sector.
Viability Statement
After considering the principal risks above, the Directors have 
assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than 
the 12 months required by the “going concern” basis of accounting. 
The Directors’ separate statement on going concern is set out on 
page 45. The Directors consider that the Group’s risk management 
process satisfies the requirements of provision C.2.2 of the 2014 
revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a 3-year 
strategic plan, which is assessed with reference to the Group’s 
current position and prospects, the strategic objectives, and the 
operation of the procedures and policies to manage the principal 
risks that might threaten the business model, future performance 
and target capital structure. In this assessment security, flexibility 
and efficiency are the guiding principles that underpin the Group’s 
capital structure objectives.
The Board considers 3 years to be an appropriate period of 
assessment as this aligns with the Group’s strategic plan and the 
Directors also consider that they have reasonable visibility of the 
market over this period. The Group’s strategic plan includes an 
integrated model that incorporates the income statement, balance 
sheet and cash flow projections. Key KPIs and financial ratios are 
reviewed along with the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions 
used. Scenario planning is undertaken along with stress testing 
against downside sensitivities. The stress testing reflects the principal 
risks that could conceivably threaten the Group’s ability to continue 
operating as a going concern and has critically assessed downside 
scenarios that might give rise to sales volume reductions, deteriorating 
operating margins and increases in interest rates. The principal risks 
and uncertainties are set out above and, in the opinion of the Directors, 
the risk of economic downturn, linked to macro-economic and 
political factors, is the most significant driver in the stress test 
scenarios. The stress testing has used the financial impact of the 
last recession as the core sensitivity, with significantly reduced 
sales volumes giving rise to a 25 per cent decrease in revenue over 
a 2-year period and reflecting a 40 per cent fall in operating margin.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next 
3 years. 24
Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Sustainability
Overview
Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impacts 
on the environment, and positive engagement with our community 
and employees have long been core values of Marshalls. We aim to align 
our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and 
environmental needs of our stakeholders, embedding responsible and 
ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
Our commitment to these values is led by the Board and Jack Clarke 
is the Director with primary responsibility for reporting to the Board 
on environmental, social and sustainability matters.
More information on our policies in relation to the environment and 
our impact on it can be found on the Group’s Sustainability website.
Employees
Marshalls continues to focus closely on the established values of 
leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability and to build these into all 
of its activities, not least those involving employees. We are firmly focused 
on encouraging all staff, no matter where they are based, to collaborate in 
all aspects, whether on work issues or as part of the Group’s “Giving Back” 
programme, which continues to be a growing activity. The Group has 
raised a substantial amount for good causes during 2015. In 2016 our 
focus will be to support Prostate Cancer UK.
For the second year Marshalls is proud to be a “Living Wage Employer” , 
underscoring its commitment to employees. In September 2015 we 
launched our employee Sharesave scheme, which enabled employees 
to save a fixed amount for a period of 3 years in order to buy discounted 
shares at a set price. The Sharesave offer was well received, with more 
than 900 employees (representing 46 per cent of the eligible workforce) 
applying to participate. This demonstrates a significant level of confidence 
on the part of our employees in Marshalls’ future.
We welcome and give full and fair consideration to applications from 
individuals with recognised disabilities to ensure they have equal 
opportunity for employment and development in our business. Wherever 
practicable we offer training and make adjustments to ensure disabled 
employees are not disadvantaged in the workplace.
Corporate responsibility, an awareness and mitigation of adverse 
impacts on the environment, and positive engagement with our 
community and employees have long been core values of Marshalls. 
Environmental
Water use, CO
2,
 and CO
2
e
Biodiversity Waste to landfill
Legal
Safety
Social
Ethical sourcing  
Community responsibility
Economic
Total shareholder return 
Customer service index
FTSE4Good membership
Marshalls’ sustainable business model 
The Group has a sustainable business plan and has set KPIs 
for the key areas of this plan. It addresses economic, social and 
environmental aspects of Marshalls’ operations, underpinned 
by the development of management systems recognised by 
an independent third party (BSI).
2,300 employees
Our success depends on our people. Because of that,  
we are committed to the highest health and safety measures  
for all of our employees. 25
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Sustainability
We are committed to achieving the highest standards of 
environmental performance. Whether it is reducing our 
carbon footprint or promoting biodiversity at our works, we 
continue to strive for real environmental results in everything 
we do. We believe in demonstrating a high degree of social 
responsibility, working with the communities in the UK and 
overseas, and engaging with issues of social importance. 
We aim to be the supplier of choice of innovatively designed 
ranges of the highest quality landscape and walling products 
to the architect, contractor and consumer. We believe 
in conducting our business in a manner which achieves 
sustainable growth and we believe in acting responsibly with 
all stakeholders.
We also remain committed to employing a diverse workforce and, in 
particular, encouraging more women to enter what has traditionally 
been a highly male-dominated workplace. Janet Ashdown joined 
Marshalls plc during 2015 as a Non-Executive Director. At the end of 
2015 our workforce comprised 2,292 employees with the following 
gender balance:
Male Female
Total workforce 84% 16%
Senior managers 87% 13%
Directors 83% 17%
Employee engagement
In 2015 we participated, for the fifth successive year, in the Best 
Companies Workplace Engagement Survey, with over 85 per cent of 
employees taking part (an increase from 75 per cent in 2014). The Group 
also saw a positive increase in its Best Companies Index Engagement 
Score and we maintained our “One to Watch” status. We are working on 
detailed implementation plans that will address key focus areas that have 
arisen from the survey. These include “Fair Deal, ” “Giving Something Back, ” 
“Wellbeing, ” “Communications” and “Personal Growth. ” During 2016 we 
have a scheduled plan of monthly activities, covering “Wellbeing” and 
“Giving Something Back, ” which will enable employees both to improve 
their personal health and contribute to both our corporate charity 
partner, Prostate Cancer UK, and local causes. Company-sponsored social 
activities range from encouraging employees to take part in Sport Relief 
to a national “Walk This Way” campaign. The survey results are cascaded 
throughout all levels of the organisation, ensuring everybody 
understands the feedback. Employees are actively encouraged to take 
part during the planning stages, which will establish agreed actions to 
improve our employee engagement during the year ahead.
Communication with our employees on matters of concern to them is 
done in face-to-face briefings, via monthly newsletters, site notice boards 
and our Group intranet. We operate a structured consultation process in 
relation to pay and employment terms. 
Employee development
We have identified a number of priorities across all aspects of the 
employee life cycle, from attraction and recruitment to personal 
growth and career progression. The introduction of a new centralised 
HR information system during 2015 has improved the quality of the 
Group’s employee data metrics, which will be used to improve 
medium to long-term talent recognition and people development, 
the wider adoption of shared best practice across our business and 
the introduction of new cohesive initiatives. 
Land at Moselden Quarry Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26
Strategic Report
Sustainability continued
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
40,012
45,329 43,518
36,166
38,756
14,015
18,703
16,212
16,769
16,436
10,000
0
30,000
20,000
50,000
40,000
70,000
60,000
 Scope 1 Scope 2
Tonnes CO
2
e
2013 2012 2014 2015 2011
Relative CO
2
e per tonne production, scopes 1 and 2
kgs CO
2
e per tonne
2013
12.12
2011
11.42
2012
11.73
2014
11.52
2015
10.94
2.00
0.00
6.00
4.00
12.00
10.00
8.00
14.00
kgs CO
2
e per tonne production output
Climate Change Policy 
www.marshalls.co.uk/ccp
Carbon Disclosure Project 
www.cdp.net
Environmental 
www.marshalls.co.uk/EnvKPI2016
Training and development
The development review process has been further extended during 2014 
and provides all employees with the opportunity for one-to-one discussions 
with their manager, covering work objectives, personal performance and 
career development. This is supported by the use of enhanced online 
resources and tools, together with site-based "tool-box talks" .
A tailored team leader development programme commenced in 
2014 to develop around 100 first-line managers within operations to 
drive manufacturing excellence. The programme, which continued 
through 2015, aims to improve management and leadership skills 
through professional qualifications and a range of internal workshops. 
Carbon emissions – disclosure
Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Group’s 
commitment to reducing the energy and carbon impact of its 
business. Our target is to reduce Group absolute CO 2e emissions 
in line with the UK Government’s targets (34 per cent by 2020 and 
80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). The progress indicates 
that reductions are in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
The Group complied with its legal obligation in the Government’s 
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) 
by submitting its Annual Report and surrender of carbon allowances 
for the period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit imposed 
by the legislation. The Group successfully recertified to the Carbon 
Trust Standard up to December 2016. The Group’s approach to the 
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (“ESOS”) legislation was to 
define its energy management in compliance with the international 
standard for energy management ISO50001, gaining certification 
in November 2015. The Group continues to report voluntarily to the 
“Carbon Disclosure Project” receiving a 98B rating for its 2015 report. 
This report includes a wider carbon management performance 
over time and also provides an insight for shareholders regarding 
the Group’s energy, carbon and climate change impact 
management programme.
Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual greenhouse 
gas emissions (“GHG”) under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 and the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. 
Marshalls uses the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition) and the latest “Defra” published CO 2e 
conversion factors to measure its GHG emissions.
The Group has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and 
found these to be less than 0.5 per cent of the Group’s total emissions; 
accordingly, these are excluded from the report.
The chart below (left) illustrates the Group’s UK absolute CO 2e emissions 
in tonnes, including transport activities, between 2011 and 2015.
The chart below (right) illustrates the Group’s CO 2e intensity emissions 
as a proportion of production output, including transport activities, 
between 2011 and 2015.
A number of factors have contributed to the Group’s energy performance 
during the year, including significant increases in outputs from 
continuing operations, product mix, weather (temperature impacting 
on the use of heating / cooling fuel) and energy management activities. 
During the year Marshalls increased its LGV fleet by 20 per cent; 
this resulted in a transfer of scope 3 to scope 1 emissions, an impact 
equivalent to 28 per cent of the scope 1 increase. 
The Group reports that it is responsible for the GHG emissions of 
Marshalls NV. The CO 2 emission from Marshalls NV activities in 2015 
was (absolute) 640 tonnes and (intensity) 8.49 kg per tonne production. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Environmental reporting
Marshalls publishes its environmental KPI performance for the 
financial year in a separate document, the Marshalls Environmental 
KPI 2016 Report. This covers our energy performance in more detail, 
together with the reporting of our environmental governance, 
policies, management and key environmental impact areas such as 
waste, water and packaging. The Environmental KPI 2016 Report also 
details our work with internationally recognised expert bodies such 
as the Carbon Trust and the RSPB.
This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified 
verifier on behalf of BSI. On the basis of the work undertaken this 
carbon statement is considered to be a fair reflection of the Group’s 
performance during 2015 and contains no misleading information.
Health and safety
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards 
for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes, 
and developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving 
long-term improvement gains, and this remains a key priority for 
the business. 
Achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is 
directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report. 
Our Safety, Health and Incident Prevention (“SHIP”) teams, consisting 
of employee representatives and managers, are the cornerstone 
of the safety management system at site level and meet regularly 
to support and develop our safety programme and objectives. 
The Group’s operating sites have been progressively implementing 
integrated management registration systems accredited by 
BSI, incorporating accreditation to OHSAS (Occupational Health 
and Safety Accreditation Standard) 18001:2007. At the end of 
2015 all UK operational sites within the Group held a BS OHSAS 
(18001:2007) registration. 
The headline target for 2015 was a 10 per cent reduction in days 
lost resulting from workplace incidents against 2014. The actual 
reductions achieved were:
 — 43.2 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from workplace incidents;
 — 17.4 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate;
 — 29.2 per cent reduction in lost time incident (“LTI”) 
frequency rate; and
 — 51.5 per cent reduction in rate of incidents reportable to the 
HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations (“RIDDOR”).
The table below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor 
performance, and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years.
Accident frequency and 
severity rates (per 1 million 
hours worked)* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
All accidents 83.2 69.5 65.6 59.1 48.8
All lost time 
accidents 15.5 14.0 12.2 7.2 5.1
All RIDDORs 8.1 6.1 3.6 3.3 1.6
All days lost 204.4 134.5 114.6 80.7 45.8
Average UK 
headcount 2,456 2,252 2,055 2,132 2,237
*  To align our accident statistics with those of the Mineral Products Association our base unit of 
measurement has changed to 1 million hours worked. Previous years' results have been amended 
to reflect this change.
During 2015, the Group has invested additional resources in health 
and safety awareness training through its "Visible Felt Leadership" 
initiative, which has now been delivered to all managers and 
supervisory staff.
The industry leading fleet safety standards were recognised at the 
2015 Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Awards for 
Excellence with Marshalls winning the prestigious "Safety" category.
Marshalls was also the winner in both the "Engineering Initiatives" 
and the "Behavioural Safety, Safety Culture and Leadership" categories 
at the Mineral Products Association's 2015 Health and Safety Awards.
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety 
standards for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety 
processes, and developing a competent workforce. 
Sustainability website 
www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28
Strategic Report
Summary
 — Operating profit up 48% to £37.5 million 
and EBITDA up 35% to £51.8 million.
 — ROCE increased by 52% to 19% driven 
by tight control and management 
of working capital.
 — Strong free cash flow with significant 
headroom for investment.
 — Strong balance sheet with a flexible 
capital structure.
Financial Review
Jack Clarke
Finance Director
Delivering growth on all key financial metrics
The Group has continued to strengthen its financial 
performance and operating margins.
Trading summary
Revenue
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2015 was £386.2 million 
(2014: £358.5 million), which represented an increase of 7.7 per cent. 
Revenue for the 6 months to 31 December 2015 was up 4.8 per cent 
compared with strong comparatives in the second half of 2014.
 
An analysis of revenue by end market is summarised in the table below:
2015 2014 Change
Analysis of sales by end market £’m £’m %
UK Domestic 111.9 108.0 3.6
Public Sector and Commercial 255.3 230.5 10.8
International 19.0 20.0 (5.0)
386.2 358.5 7.7
% % 
UK Domestic 28.8 30.0
Public Sector and Commercial 66.2 64.1
International 5.0 5.9 
400
250
300
350
2014 
revenue 
Landscape 
Products 
Smaller UK 
 businesses 
International 2015 
revenue
£’m
20.0
358.5
8.7
-1.0
386.2
Revenue variance analysis 2014/2015 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Public Sector and Commercial
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market, revenue increased 
by 10.8 per cent compared with 2014. Sales in the Public Sector and 
Commercial end market now represent approximately 66 per cent 
of Group sales.
Commercial order intake is strong and demand in Water Management, 
New Build Housing and Rail continues to increase. The Group is 
outperforming the market in these areas and Marshalls’ strategy 
is to enhance its position as a market leading landscape products 
specialist. The Group’s technical and sales teams focus on market 
areas where future demand is greatest and promote the full range 
of integrated products and sustainable solutions to customers, 
architects and contractors. 
The Group has established the new “Marshalls' Stone Standard” . 
The Marshalls’ Stone Standard mark gives our customers full 
assurance that all Marshalls natural stone not only meets but 
exceeds the base technical levels outlined in B57533.
Domestic
In the Domestic end market, revenue increased by 3.6 per cent. 
Sales to the UK Domestic end market now represent approximately 
29 per cent of Group sales.
Installer order books at the end of February 2016 were 10.5 weeks 
(February 2015: 9.0 weeks). The Group continues to receive good 
feedback from its customers and installers for the consistency and 
quality of service. The GfK’s Consumer Confidence Index has remained 
at historically high levels during the last year. 
The Group’s strategy continues to be to drive more sales through 
quality installers. The Marshalls Register of approved domestic installers 
is unique and has grown to over 1,800 teams. The objective is to 
continually develop the Marshalls brand, to improve the product mix and 
to ensure a consistently high standard of quality, excellent customer 
service and marketing support and good geographical coverage. 
International
Sales to International markets increased by 2.6 per cent in local currency. 
However, the impact of exchange rate movements is that, once 
translated into Sterling, sales reduced to £19.0 million (2014: £20.0 million). 
Given trading conditions, which continue to be difficult in Europe, this 
represents a good performance and, pleasingly, the Belgium business 
has moved into profit. The International business is now approximately 
5 per cent of Group sales. 
The continuing focus is to develop the Group’s International operations 
and ensure these are aligned with market opportunities. Sales through 
the Group’s US subsidiary have increased by 50 per cent, in local 
currency, and a new sales office has recently been opened in Dubai 
to facilitate further sales growth in the Middle East. 
Operating profit
2015 2014 Change
Trading results £’m £’m %
EBITDA 51.8 38.5 34.6
Depreciation / amortisation (14.3) (13.2) 
Operating profit 37.5 25.3 48.0
Operating profit was £37.5 million (2014: £25.3 million), which represents 
an increase of 48.0 per cent. EBITDA increased by 34.6 per cent to 
£51.8 million (2014: £38.5 million) and basic EPS was 14.32 pence 
(2014: 10.13 pence), an increase of 41.4 per cent. 
ROCE increased by 52.0 per cent to 19.0 per cent (2014: 12.5 per cent) 
driven by tight control of capital management. Capital employed has 
decreased by 3.9 per cent to £204.2 million (2014: £212.4 million), 
despite the significant increase in profit.
  Public Sector  66% 
and Commercial
 UK Domestic 29%
 International 5%
  Landscape 78% 
Products
  Smaller UK 17% 
businesses
 International 5%
Driving growth revenue analysis Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30
Strategic Report
There has been continued performance improvement in the smaller 
UK businesses during 2015 and they have collectively delivered 
revenue growth of £8.7 million and profit growth of £2.4 million, 
as illustrated in the charts below. The smaller UK businesses include 
Street Furniture, Mineral Products and Stone Cladding.
Smaller UK businesses
Revenue (£’m)
59.1
48.7
67.8
10
0
30
20
60
50
40
80
70
2015 2014 2013
Smaller UK businesses
Operating profit (£’m)
1.4
(2.0)
3.8
-2
-3
0
-1
3
2
1
5
4
2015 2014 2013
The smaller UK businesses are a positive driver for growth.
Trading summary continued
First half / second half phasing
The following table summarises the relative performance of the 
second half of 2015 compared with that for the 6 months ended 
30 June 2015. The table illustrates the continued improvement in 
the second half of 2015, with revenue increasing by 4.8 per cent 
and operating profit increasing by 59.3 per cent compared with 
the comparable 6 month period in 2014. 
First half /
second half 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014
phasing £’m £’m % % %
Revenue
HY1 199.1 180.0 10.6 52 50
HY2 187.1 178.5 4.8 48 50
Total 386.2 358.5 7.7 
Operating profit
HY1 22.0 15.6 41.0 59 62
HY2 15.5 9.7 59.3 41 38
Total 37.5 25.3 48.0 
Profit margins
The Group continued to strengthen its market position and operating 
margin increased by 37 per cent to 9.7 per cent (2014: 7.1 per cent on 
a reported basis). 
Reported
operating Margin 
Revenue profit impact
Margin analysis £’m £’m %
2014 – reported 358.5 25.3 7.1
Restructuring costs – Belgium — 2.0 0.5
2014 – underlying 358.5 27.3 7.6
Landscape Products 20.0 5.5 1.0
Smaller UK businesses 8.7 2.4 0.4
International (1.0) 2.3 0.7
2015 386.2 37.5 9.7
The table illustrates the impact of operational gearing in the UK 
businesses as a result of volume growth, which has been ahead 
of CPA forecasts.
The Group’s Landscape Products business is a reportable segment 
servicing both the UK Public Sector and Commercial and UK 
Domestic end markets. Revenue increased by £20.0 million 
and operating profit grew by £5.5 million in the Landscape 
Products business.
Financial Review continued
Increasing output
We are increasing output to meet  
growing demand and to deliver  
benefits from operational gearing. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Operational developments
The Group has excellent relationships with its customers. This is 
delivering additional sales and good progress is being made with the 
many growth initiatives. An important development is the opening 
of Marshalls’ new “Design Space” office in Central London. This new 
facility will showcase the Group’s brand leading capabilities and will 
provide customers with access to samples and technical advice. 
The office’s location in Clerkenwell is ideal for the engagement of 
architectural practices.
The Group’s industry leading standards remained high in 2015 giving 
a combined customer service measure of 98 per cent (2014: 97 per cent). 
Marshalls continues to receive good feedback from its customers and 
installers for the consistency and quality of its products and service. 
A priority during 2015 was to advance the creation of a wide-ranging 
digital strategy, which encompasses digital trading, digital marketing 
and digital business. The strategy includes the creation of web and 
mobile applications which track and support the customer through 
their purchasing journey. Examples include merchant web stores and 
the Marshalls Register member mobile app. In digital marketing, web 
and mobile applications have been developed to promote the sale 
of products and data mining techniques have been introduced to 
identify market trends. 
Capital investment in property, plant and equipment in 2015 totalled 
£15.5 million (2014: £12.0 million). This compares with depreciation 
and amortisation of £14.4 million (2014: £13.2 million). The Group will 
continue to invest selectively in innovation to deliver new products and 
improvement projects that reinforce its market leading position. 
Research and development expenditure in the year ended 
31 December 2015 amounted to £3.1 million (2014: £2.7 million). 
Investment in research and development covers a number of areas, 
including the development of the Group’s project engineering and 
manufacturing capabilities, concrete and other materials technology 
innovations and extending the new product pipeline. Revenue from 
new products increased by 14 per cent, in the core Landscape Products 
business, during 2015, and represents 10 per cent of its sales.
Net financial expenses 
Net finance costs were £2.2 million (2014: £2.9 million) and interest 
was covered 17.2 times (2014: 8.8 times) reflecting the benefits from 
the refinancing exercise undertaken during the year. External charges 
totalled £1.8 million (2014: £2.8 million) and, including scheme 
administration costs, there was an IAS 19 notional interest charge of 
£0.4 million (2014: £0.1 million) in relation to the Group’s pension 
scheme. The IAS 19 notional interest includes interest on obligations 
under the defined benefit section of the Marshalls plc pension 
scheme net of the expected return on scheme assets. 
Taxation
The effective tax rate was 20.9 per cent (2014: 18.7 per cent) with the 
prior period benefiting from a credit arising on the finalisation of prior 
year tax computations. The tax charge includes a deferred tax credit 
of £0.9 million arising due to substantively enacted reductions in the 
rate of corporation tax to 18 per cent by April 2020. The Group has 
paid £7.0 million (2014: £4.0 million) of corporation tax during the 
year. Deferred tax of £0.8 million (2014: £0.6 million credit) in relation 
to the actuarial loss (2014: gain) arising on the Group's defined benefit 
pension scheme in the year has been taken to the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Marshalls was awarded the Fair Tax Mark in 2015. The Fair Tax Mark 
recognises social responsibility and transparency in a company’s 
tax affairs and we are the first business in our sector to receive this 
accreditation. The Group’s tax arrangements have long been closely 
aligned with the Fair Tax Mark’s objectives and this is now supported 
by additional tax disclosures and a stated tax policy. 
Dividends
The recommended supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per 
share is discretionary and non-recurring and recognises that the 
business has sufficient capital both to finance increased investment 
opportunities and to maintain a flexible capital structure. When 
added to the normal full-year dividend of 7.00 pence, this gives a total 
dividend for the year of 9.00 pence. The incremental cash outflow in 
2016 in relation to the supplementary dividend will be approximately 
£3.9 million.
Dividends (p)
4.00
3.50
2.00
9.00
6.00
5.25
1
2
0
4
3
7
6
5
10
9
8
2015 2014 2013
1.75
2.00
4.75
2.25
  F inal
 Interim
 Supplementary Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32
Strategic Report
At 31 December 2015 net debt was £11.5 million (2014: £30.5 million) 
resulting in gearing of 6.0 per cent (2014: 16.8 per cent). This 
reduction is due to the operating cash flow impact of strong 
trading, together with a continuation of the close control of 
inventory and the effective management of working capital 
introduced in the year. As a result, working capital management 
has successfully released cash in the year of £8.5 million. 
Cash management continues to be a high priority. 
Borrowing facilities
The Group continues its policy of having a range of committed bank 
facilities in place with a positive spread of medium-term maturities 
that now extends to 2020. In July 2015, following the continued 
steady reduction in net debt, the Group undertook a full review of 
its bank facilities in order to align them with current strategy and to 
ensure headroom against available facilities remains at appropriate 
levels. Committed facility lines were reduced by £30 million which has 
reduced finance costs and, at the same time, the Group renewed its 
short-term working capital facilities with RBS. The Group’s committed 
facilities are all revolving credit facilities with interest charged at 
variable rate based on LIBOR.
The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2015 amounted 
to £95.0 million (2014: £125.0 million), of which £58.9 million 
(2014: £74.7 million) remained unutilised. In addition, the Group 
has a seasonal working capital facility of £20.0 million, which 
is available between 1 February and 31 August each year. 
The Group has significant headroom in its available facilities. 
Interest cover and net debt to EBITDA covenants in the facilities were 
comfortably met at the year end. The bank facilities are unsecured 
save for inter-company guarantees between the Group and its 
subsidiary undertakings in favour of the facility banks.
Cumulative
Facility facility
Expiry date £’m £’m
Committed facilities
Q3 2020 20 20
Q3 2019 20 40
Q3 2018 20 60
Q3 2017 20 80
On-demand facilities
Available all year 15 95
Seasonal (February 
to August inclusive) 20 115
Trading summary continued
Balance sheet
2015 2014
Group Balance Sheet £’m £’m
Non-current assets 192.8 196.0
Current assets 137.0 132.6
Current liabilities (87.1) (81.0)
Non-current liabilities (50.0) (65.7)
Net assets 192.7 181.9
Net debt (11.5) (30.5)
Net debt: EBITDA 0.2 0.8
Net assets at 31 December 2015 were £192.7 million (2014: £181.9 million). 
The Group has a strong balance sheet with a broad range of 
medium-term bank facilities available to fund its investment initiatives 
to generate further growth. During the year the Group undertook a 
thorough review of its capital structure to ensure it provides a sound 
basis for future investment decisions.
The Group's UK inventory reduction programme has contributed to 
a reduction of over £2 million despite significantly increased levels 
of activity. The Group continues to prioritise inventory management 
and improving stock turnover. We believe debtor days remain industry 
leading due to continued close control of credit management 
procedures. The Group maintains credit insurance which provides 
excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts 
and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred. 
The balance sheet value of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme 
was a surplus of £3.4 million (2014: £3.4 million surplus). The amount 
has been determined by the Scheme actuary using assumptions 
that are considered to be prudent and in line with current market 
levels. The fair value of the Scheme assets at 31 December 2015 
was £302.2 million (2014: £312.5 million) and the present value of 
the Scheme liabilities was £298.8 million (2014: £309.1 million). 
These changes have resulted in an actuarial loss, net of deferred 
taxation, of £3.9 million (2014: £3.2 million surplus) and this has been 
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The 
Company has agreed with the Trustee that no cash contributions are 
now payable under the existing funding and recovery plan, resulting 
in a future cash saving of £4.6 million per annum.
Analysis of net debt
2015 2014
Analysis of net debt £’m £’m
Cash and cash equivalents 25.0 20.3
Bank loans (36.1) (50.3)
Finance leases (0.4) (0.5)
(11.5) (30.5)
Financial Review continued Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Cash generation
2015 2014
Group cash flow £’m £’m
Net cash from operating 
activities 49.7 29.1
Net cash from investing activities (13.8) (8.9)
Net cash from financing activities (16.9) (15.1)
Movement in net debt in the period 19.0 5.1
Net debt at beginning of period (30.5) (35.6)
Net debt at end of period (11.5) (30.5)
The Group is significantly cash generative. In the year ended 
31 December 2015 net cash flow from operating activities 
was £49.7 million (2014: £29.1 million). 
2015 2014
Analysis of cash utilisation £’m £’m
Net cash from 
operating activities 49.7 29.1
Capital expenditure (14.9) (12.0)
Proceeds from sale 
of property assets 1.1 3.1
Payments to acquire own shares (4.6) (4.3)
Cash returned to shareholders (12.3) (10.8)
Movement in net debt 19.0 5.1
Cash outflow on capital expenditure in the year was £14.9 million 
(2014: £12.0 million). The majority of this expenditure was invested in 
the replacement of existing assets, in business improvements and in 
new process technology. Proceeds from the sale of targeted property 
assets contributed £1.1 million (2014: £3.1 million). Dividend 
payments in the year were £12.3 million (2014: £10.8 million). 
Jack Clarke
Finance Director
0
50
100
150
200
Dec 11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15
Bank facilities
Committed
On demand
Seasonal
Net debt
The Strategic Report section on pages 1 to 33 of this 
Annual Report has been reviewed and approved by the 
Board of Directors on 11 March 2016.
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Effective control framework
We maintain an efficient and flexible capital structure and  
operate tight control over financial procedures.
£’m Corporate Governance
34
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board of Directors and Secretary
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Jack Clarke
Finance Director
Alan Coppin
Non-Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director
Length of service
12 years 6 months (4 years 6 months 
as Chairman)
Length of service
2 years 3 months
Length of service
1 year 3 months
Length of service
5 years 7 months 
Independent
Yes (on appointment as Chairman)
Independent
No
Independent
No
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Significant current listed company 
Board experience, as Chairman and as 
a Non-Executive Director; previously 
Non-Executive Director of AZ Electronic 
Materials SA (until 2014) and CSR plc 
(until 2013). Previous Executive roles 
include Group Finance Director of 
RHM plc, taking a lead role in its 
flotation in July 2005 on the London 
Stock Exchange, and CEO of Enodis plc. 
Also held senior Executive positions 
with Dalgety plc, Amersham 
International plc and Guinness plc.
Chartered Accountant, former partner 
of Price Waterhouse. Graduate of the 
University of Oxford.
Skills and experience
Wide Executive leadership experience: 
previously Divisional Chief Executive 
Officer of BDR Thermea Group BV, a 
leading manufacturer and distributor 
of domestic and industrial heating 
and hot water systems operating 
in 70 countries and with a turnover 
of €1.8 billion, formed in 2009 from 
the merger of Baxi and De Dietrich 
Remeha. Prior to the merger, he 
was Chief Executive of the private 
equity-owned Baxi Group. Also held 
the position of Managing Director of 
Pirelli Cables where he spent 14 years 
in the UK, Australia and North America. 
Holds a BSc in Mathematics.
Skills and experience
Chartered Accountant. Joined Marshalls 
from AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, where he 
was Executive Vice President and Director 
of Change Management. He has extensive 
experience in managing international 
operations, having previously served as 
CFO of AMEC’s £850 million power and 
process division and its US$1.5 billion 
environment and infrastructure division. 
He has extensive M&A experience. 
Previous experience includes senior 
finance and operational management 
roles with Halliburton and Mobil Oil. 
Holds an MSc (Civil Engineering) and 
BA (Economics and Management).
Skills and experience
Significant cross-sector governance 
and management experience, including 
previous Non-Executive directorships at 
Berkeley Homes plc, Capital and Regional 
plc and Carillion plc. Previously Chairman 
of the Prince’s Foundation for the Built 
Environment. Alan is a Companion of 
the Chartered Management Institute.
External appointments
Chairman of The Go-Ahead Group plc 
and Fox Marble Holdings plc, and 
Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
at Northgate plc.
External appointments
Officer of the Construction 
Products Association.
Director of the Mineral 
Products Association.
Non-Executive Director of Eurocell plc.
External appointments
None.
External appointments
Crown Representative in the Cabinet 
Office (Efficiency and Reform Group), 
Trustee and Chairman of the Campaign 
Board for the RAF Museums, Patron of 
the Windsor Leadership Trust, Chairman 
of Sports Ground Safety Authority and 
Independent Panel Member of Public 
Appointments for the Department 
of Media, Culture and Sport. 
Term of office
Joined the Board in July 2003; 
appointed as Chairman in May 2010. 
Last re-elected in May 2015. Also chairs 
the Nomination Committee.
Term of office
Joined the Company and appointed 
to the Board in September 2013. 
Last re-elected in May 2015.
Term of office
Joined the Company and appointed 
to the Board on 1 October 2014. 
Formally elected in May 2015.
Term of office
Appointed in May 2010. Last re-elected 
in May 2015. 
R N R A N Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
35
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Mark Edwards
Non-Executive Director 
Tim Pile
Non-Executive Director
Janet Ashdown
Non-Executive Director
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
Length of service
5 years 7 months
Length of service
5 years 3 months
Length of service
9 months
Independent
Yes
Independent
Yes
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Chartered Accountant with a strong 
operating background gained in the 
USA, Europe and Asia. CEO of AIM 
Altitude, a leading supplier of cabin 
interiors for Boeing and Airbus aircraft 
on the world’s leading airlines.
Formerly CEO of the Baxi Group and 
Vice President of the Construction 
Products Association.
Skills and experience
Executive Chairman of Cogent Elliott, 
the leading independent marketing 
agency; extensive cross-sector 
leadership and business experience, 
particularly in marketing and financial 
services and formerly Chief Executive 
Officer of Sainsbury’s Bank. Previous 
Non-Executive Director roles include 
Cancer Research UK.
Skills and experience
Non-Executive Director of SIG Plc and 
a member of its Audit, Remuneration, 
Nomination and Governance Committees. 
Janet is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Coventry Building Society and a 
member of its Remuneration and Risk 
Committees and was also recently 
appointed to the Board of the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority.
Janet’s Executive career included 30 years 
with BP plc, most recently as Director, 
BP Oil UK Limited, and Head of UK Retail 
and Commercial Fuels. Between 
2010 and 2012 she was CEO of Harvest 
Energy and is currently Chair of Trustees 
of the charity “Hope in Tottenham”.
Skills and experience
In addition to her role as Company 
Secretary, Cathy is General Counsel to 
the Marshalls Group and has responsibility 
for compliance and risk management. 
She also sits on the Marshalls’ pension 
scheme trustee board. She has previous 
experience as Company Secretary and 
Group Counsel with Silentnight Group, 
Thistle Hotels plc and Jacuzzi (UK). 
Qualified as a solicitor with Clifford 
Chance before becoming a partner 
in a national law firm, specialising 
in banking and corporate law. 
Graduate of the University of Oxford.
External appointments
Chief Executive of AIM Aviation 
Holdings (which trades as AIM Altitude) 
and its group of companies, and 
Chairman of Atlas Fine Wines.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of 
The Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, 
Immediate Past-President of the 
Greater Birmingham Chambers 
of Commerce and Director of 
the Library of Birmingham. 
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of SIG Plc, 
Coventry Building Society and the 
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
External appointments
Charity Trustee and Board member 
of Ilkley Literature Festival, the Open 
College of the Arts and the Bedales 
Grants Trust Fund.
Term of office
Appointed in May 2010. Last re-elected 
in May 2015. 
Term of office
Appointed in October 2010. 
Last re-elected in May 2015. 
Term of office
Appointed in March 2015. Formally 
elected in May 2015.
Term of office
Appointed in July 2008.
Key
R R A A N N
Member of the Remuneration Committee R Member of the Audit Committee A Member of the Nomination Committee N Chairman of Committee C
R A N Corporate Governance
36
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate Governance Statement
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder,
This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Reports 
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on pages 
36 to 65, explains how Marshalls’ governance framework works and 
how we apply the principles of business integrity, high ethical values 
and professionalism in all our activities. As a Board, we recognise that 
we are accountable to shareholders for good corporate governance, 
and we seek to promote consistently high standards of governance 
throughout the Group which are recognised and understood by all.
Good governance involves good and effective leadership, 
robust systems and processes that are regularly tested, and a good 
understanding of risk and risk appetite. The Board seeks to add 
value through constructive dialogue and challenge, engagement 
with shareholders and other stakeholders, and with a strong focus 
on the strategic agenda. This year, the Board has set aside additional 
time for risk review and for consideration of our key strategic objectives, 
which I have commented on in my Chairman’s Statement. Group 
strategy is outlined on pages 16 and 17 of the Strategic Report.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its composition, and, 
having recruited Janet Ashdown in 2015, we have a clear succession 
plan aimed at refreshing and extending the range of skills, experience 
and diversity on the Board in future years. Our progress in this area is 
highlighted in the Nomination Committee Report.
This Corporate Governance Statement, which is part of the Directors’ 
Report, has been prepared in accordance with the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 
(the “Code”), which the Board fully supports. We consider that the 
Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code 
throughout the year in all material respects. I can also confirm that 
in the opinion of the Directors these Annual Financial Statements 
present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. The respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with 
the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities and the Auditor’s Report on pages 44 to 45 and 
66 to 69 respectively.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities pages 44 – 45 44
Remuneration Committee Report pages 46 – 60 46
Audit Committee Report pages 61 – 63 61 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
37
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Executive 
Directors
Board
Executive 
Committee
Operational 
and functional 
management
Group / corporate support
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Interaction between Board 
and management bodies
Role of the Board
The Board currently comprises an Independent Non-Executive 
Chairman, 4 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directors who 
are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership 
of the Company. Their biographical details are on pages 34 and 35.
Among the written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, 
which is reviewed annually, are:
 — approving and monitoring progress of strategy, business plans 
and budgets;
 — approving any changes to capital, constitution or 
corporate structure;
 — approving the annual and half-yearly accounts, and the approval 
and monitoring of the internal financial control system, risk 
management, health and safety and anti-bribery policies 
and procedures;
 — Board appointments and succession planning, and setting terms 
of reference for Board Committees;
 — approving transactions of significant value or major strategic 
importance; and
 — remuneration matters, including major changes to pension 
schemes, the introduction of share and incentive schemes, 
and the general framework of remuneration.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The Audit Committee 
Report on pages 61 to 63 provides details of how the Board applies 
the Code in relation to financial reporting, risk management and 
internal controls. The Nomination Committee Report on pages 42 and 
43 explains how Board and senior management succession planning 
and Board development are being addressed. The Remuneration Report 
on pages 46 to 60 gives details of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
and policy. Other Board Committees are established periodically for 
particular purposes. For example, during the year, Board Committees 
were established to approve the grant of Sharesave options, dividend 
payments and the preliminary and half-yearly results.
Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies 
agreed by the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors. The 
Group’s reporting structure below Board level is designed so that 
all decisions are made by the most appropriate people in a timely 
manner. Management teams report to members of the Executive 
Committee, which currently consists of 7 senior managers, including 
the 2 Executive Directors. The Board receives regular updates from 
this Committee in relation to business issues and developments. 
These policies and procedures collectively enable the Board to make 
informed decisions on a range of key issues including strategy and 
risk management. The interaction between these bodies is illustrated 
in the chart below.
Chairman and CEO Terms of Reference
www.marshalls.co.uk
Committee Terms of Reference
www.marshalls.co.uk Corporate Governance
38
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and 
Non‑Executive Directors
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and Chief Executive, each of whom has annually reviewed written 
Terms of Reference. The Chairman leads the Board and sets its 
agenda, ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all 
agenda items, in particular strategic issues, making sure all Directors, 
particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to contribute, and 
maintaining a constructive relationship between the Executive and 
the Non-Executive Directors. The Chief Executive has responsibility 
for all operational matters which include the implementation of 
strategy and policies approved by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director, who also has written Terms of 
Reference, is responsible for providing a sounding board for the 
Chairman and is an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors. 
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not 
resolved through the normal channels of contact.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent 
on appointment, and the Board considers each of the Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance 
with the principles of the Code.
At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-Executive Directors also meet annually without the 
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about 
the running of the Company or a proposed action are recorded 
in the Board minutes. If a Non-Executive Director did have any such 
concerns on resignation the Chairman would invite that Director 
to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing 
situations and for considering (and authorising where appropriate) 
new situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest. These 
are recorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination 
Committee at least annually. The Nomination Committee has 
delegated authority to make recommendations on any situation 
notified to the Board in future. Currently, the only situations 
authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar 
offices with companies or organisations not connected with the 
Company where the Board has not identified any actual conflict 
of interest. The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied 
that they are operating effectively.
Board composition, commitment and election 
of Directors
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. 
We believe our Board is of sufficient size and has an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience to meet the needs of the business. 
Individual Director evaluations, succession planning and the work 
of the Nomination Committee are commented on further in the 
Nomination Committee Report.
On appointment, Board members, in particular the Chairman and 
the Non-Executive Directors, disclose their other commitments and 
agree to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their 
duties effectively and ensure that these other commitments do not 
affect their contribution. The current Board commitments of the 
Chairman and of the remaining members of the Board are shown on 
pages 34 and 35. Any conflicts of interest are dealt with in accordance 
with the Board conflicts procedures.
The Company’s Articles of Association contain powers of removal, 
appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that 
at least one third of the Board must retire at each Annual General 
Meeting and each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years. 
In practice, the Company requires all Non-Executive Directors and 
Executive Directors to stand for re-election at each Annual General 
Meeting so, with the exception of Alan Coppin who is retiring, all will 
stand for re-election or election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 
Jack Clarke, who joined the Board in October 2014, and Janet Ashdown, 
who joined the Board in March 2015, were each elected at the Annual 
General Meeting in May 2015. The terms of appointment of the current 
Directors are reported on page 60 and the Directors’ biographical 
details on pages 34 and 35 show their length of service on the Board.
Board induction, development and support
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining 
the Board. There is an induction pack for new Directors incorporating 
the Company’s constitutional and governance documents, Group 
policies and other key information. Directors receive training on the 
use of our electronic Board packs, and other tailored training may be 
arranged to meet individual needs, for example to refresh knowledge 
of the Listing Rules and regulatory compliance. Typically, a new 
Director will meet the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 
in one-on-one sessions; he or she will have meetings with key 
management, briefings with external advisers and shareholders, 
and a programme of site visits will be arranged at which the Director 
meets site-based staff to gain a full understanding of the business. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
39
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
All Directors receive training as part of the annual 
Board programme, which seeks to incorporate a 
range of in-depth topics of particular relevance to 
the business. Directors are also expected to attend 
external courses and seminars as appropriate to 
maintain and develop their Board competencies.”
Training is also built in to the annual Board programme, which seeks 
to incorporate a range of in-depth topics of particular relevance 
to the business. Directors are expected to attend external courses 
and seminars as appropriate to maintain and develop their Board 
competencies. During 2015, there were Board briefings relating to 
health and safety and changes to financial reporting and corporate 
governance. The Board also received senior management presentations 
in relation to innovation, manufacturing operations and the Group’s 
marketing strategy, and there were individual meetings between 
Non-Executive Directors and senior managers relating to areas of 
particular interest. Training needs are identified through the Board 
evaluation process and through individual reviews between the 
Directors and the Chairman.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent 
nature of that advice and those services. The Company Secretary 
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied 
with and, through the Chairman, advises the Board on corporate 
governance matters. Both the appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Board 
Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their 
duties, including the option to appoint external advisers when they 
deem it appropriate.
Indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover to cover legal proceedings against its Directors and Officers 
acting in that capacity. The Group has also granted indemnities to 
its Directors to the extent permitted by law (which are qualifying 
third-party indemnities within the meaning of Section 236 of the 
Companies Act 2006), and these remained in force during the year 
in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors may incur 
to third parties in the course of action as Directors or employees of 
the Company, any subsidiary or associated company, or as a Director 
of the pension scheme trustee board. Neither the liability insurance 
nor the indemnities provide cover in the event of proven fraudulent 
or dishonest activity.
Board evaluation
The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance 
and that of its 3 principal Committees annually. The 2015 evaluation 
was conducted in a similar way to previous years, using a detailed 
questionnaire, and one-to-one confidential discussions between 
each of the Directors and the Company Secretary. The questionnaire 
referenced current guidance on Board effectiveness published by the 
Financial Reporting Council and other external investor bodies, such 
as the ABI, the Investment Association and NAPF, as well as the Code. 
It was designed to stimulate thought and discussion rather than to 
deliver scores, and included questions about the effectiveness of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and the performance of the 
Chairman. The Senior Independent Director separately reviewed the 
Chairman’s performance with other Non-Executive Directors. The 
results of the evaluation were reviewed by the Chairman and the 
Company Secretary and discussed by the Board. Corporate Governance
40
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board evaluation continued
The Board also reviewed the priorities identified for 2015 from the 
previous 2014 evaluation process. These included deeper debate on 
strategic issues and the strategic objectives of the Group, increasing 
focus on dynamic risk reporting, increasing opportunities for 
Non-Executive Directors to meet senior management below Board 
level, recruiting a female Non-Executive Director and developing 
opportunities for contact between the Chairman and shareholders. 
Good progress against all of these priorities was made during the year.
The key themes emerging from the 2015 evaluation have been applied 
in developing specific Board objectives for 2016. They include:
 — extending the strategy debate with an externally facilitated 
Board strategy day to focus on long-term vision;
 — putting more structure around Board development and 
succession planning, including personal development plans for 
each Director and individual appraisal and development work at 
Board and senior management level;
 — developing risk reporting and best practice within the business 
on the management of risk; 
 — improving visibility of risk assessment at the early stages 
of project evaluation; and
 — raising the profile of people related issues generally at Board 
level, and adding HR related KPIs to the regular Board reports.
The Board believes that the current evaluation process works 
extremely well. All Directors take the opportunity to respond fully 
and frankly to the questionnaire, which is thorough and robust, with 
a genuine desire to enhance overall Board performance, and the 
process contains sufficient objectivity through the confidentiality of 
individual responses to ensure that challenge is acknowledged and 
acted upon. The Board considered whether an external evaluation 
should be carried out in 2015, and concluded that in view of Board 
changes and the positive impact of the established evaluation 
process, an internally led review remained appropriate for 2015. 
However, recognising the potential benefit of a periodic external 
review, the Board plans to commission an external evaluation during 
2016 using an external facilitator, who will be identified in next year’s 
Annual Report.
Board meetings
There were 7 regular Board meetings scheduled during 2015, 
4 meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 
1 Nomination Committee meeting. Additional meetings were 
held during the year for other specific purposes. Non-Executive 
Directors also attended site visits.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are usually invited 
to attend Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit Committee 
also meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present. 
The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee 
meetings where appropriate. The Company Secretary is also Secretary 
to the Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
Board attendance
Board 
Audit
 Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Andrew Allner 
(Non-Executive) 7/7 – 4/4 1/1
Janet Ashdown 5/5 3/3 2/2 –
Jack Clarke 7/7 – – –
Martyn Coffey 7/7 – – –
Alan Coppin 
(Non-Executive) 7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
Mark Edwards 
(Non-Executive) 7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
Tim Pile 
(Non-Executive) 7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
Janet Ashdown joined the Board in March 2015 and has attended 
all meetings held since the date of her appointment. In 2016 there 
are 7 Board, 4 Audit Committee, 4 Remuneration Committee and 
1 Nomination Committee meetings scheduled, with 2 additional 
days set aside for strategy. Board members are expected to participate 
in site visits, and are invited to other events such as the Group’s 
annual management conference.
Performance reporting and Board information
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review process, 
including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular 
forecasting. There is a range of performance indicators which are 
tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as 
appropriate, and addressed through a programme of operational 
meetings and action plans. All Directors receive regular and timely 
information to enable them to perform their duties, including 
information on the Group’s operational and financial performance, 
customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends. 
The Board reviews at each regular Board meeting the monthly 
financial results, taking account of performance indicators and the 
detailed annual business plan and budget. The Board also considers 
forward trends and performance against other key indicators, 
including areas where performance departs from forecasts, and 
contingency plans. The Board reviews and discusses medium and 
long-term strategy on a regular basis and meets at least annually 
with the Executive Committee to review strategy and also holds 
separate meetings with individual members of senior management 
to update the Board on business and strategic issues. In this way, the 
Board assesses the prospects of the Group using all the information 
at its disposal, and considering historic performance, forecast 
performance for the current year, and longer-term forecasts over the 
3 – 5 year business planning cycle as appropriate. In approving these 
accounts the Board has considered these matters in detail. The Board 
has a reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next 
12 months.
Corporate Governance Statement continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
41
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Risk management and internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives, and for the Group’s system of internal control. 
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal controls systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls. The Strategic Report comments 
in detail (pages 20 to 23) on the nature of the principal risks facing 
the Group, in particular those that would threaten our business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and the measures 
in place to mitigate them. In conducting its review, the Board has 
included a robust assessment of these risks. The Audit Committee 
Report on pages 61 to 63 describes the internal control system and 
how it is managed and monitored. The Board acknowledges that 
such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
mis-statement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
The Board places great emphasis on good communications with 
shareholders. The Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet 
regularly with major shareholders to discuss the Group’s 
performance, strategic issues and shareholder investment objectives, 
and also periodically arrange site visits for investors. Reports of these 
meetings and any shareholder communications during the year are 
provided to the Board. During 2015, 83 such meetings were held, at 
which at least 46 institutional shareholders were represented.
The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts’ and brokers’ 
briefings. The Chairman is available to meet major shareholders on 
request to discuss governance and strategy. The Senior Independent 
Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if requested. 
When appropriate, the Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or 
site visits with major shareholders and would be available to meet 
major shareholders if a meeting were requested.
There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure 
that matters of importance affecting the Group are communicated to 
investors, and the Annual and Half-yearly Reports, together with the 
Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with all 
shareholders during the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders, 
together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special 
business, at least 20 working days before the meeting. It is the 
Company’s practice to propose separate resolutions on each 
substantially separate issue, including a resolution relating to the 
Report and Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll 
at the Annual General Meeting. All Directors normally attend the 
meeting, including the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees, who are available to answer questions. 
The Board welcomes questions from shareholders who have an 
opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before or at the 
Annual General Meeting.
For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide 
shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or 
against the resolution or to withhold their vote. The proxy form and 
any announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a “vote 
withheld” is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation 
of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted. 
Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy 
votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in 
respect of which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together 
with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available 
on the Company’s website.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
11 March 2016 Corporate Governance
42
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Nomination Committee Report
Andrew Allner
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to report to shareholders on the main activities of 
the Committee and how it has performed its duties during 2015. 
I chair Nomination Committee meetings, but would not do so 
where the Committee was dealing with my own reappointment 
or replacement as Chairman.
Andrew Allner
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
The Committee 
will be working with 
management on a high 
level review of senior 
management succession 
planning below Board 
level during 2016.”
Nomination Committee members
 — Andrew Allner – Chairman
 — Alan Coppin
 — Janet Ashdown
 — Mark Edwards
 — Tim Pile
Role and responsibilities
The role of the Nomination Committee includes:
 — Board succession planning, including size, composition and 
balance of skills and experience, giving due weight to the 
achievement of diversity in its widest sense;
 — recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment 
to the Board;
 — reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes for 
Directors standing for election or re-election in advance 
of the Annual General Meeting; and
 — monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, 
maintaining the conflicts register, and considering any 
new notifications.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the 
Board evaluation process in 2015, and the Committee Terms of 
Reference were also reviewed.
During the year the Nomination Committee held 1 scheduled 
meeting, and additional meetings and discussions in connection 
with succession planning and recruitment were held by telephone. 
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 40.
Recruitment and succession planning
The Committee remains committed to achieving diversity 
in its widest sense in the composition of the Board and senior 
management. The Nomination Committee’s priorities during 2015 
included the recruitment of a female Non-Executive Director, 
an objective initially identified in 2012 but deferred during the 
recruitment and appointment of Martyn Coffey in 2013 and Jack 
Clarke in 2014 as Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively.
In late 2014, the Committee recommenced its search, working with 
an external search consultant, Lygon. Lygon also provided services 
in relation to the recruitment of the Executive Directors in 2013 and 
2014, but it has no connection with the Company other than the 
provision of the Board search services described in this report. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
43
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Suitable candidates were sought with Lygon’s support, following 
which a detailed series of meetings and interviews between those 
candidates and members of the Committee took place, resulting in 
the appointment of Janet Ashdown to the Board on 25 March 2015. 
Janet’s extensive experience in industry and her knowledge of the 
building materials sector are valuable additions to the Board, and she 
has, since appointment, received full induction training and made 
a number of site visits to familiarise herself with the business.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject 
to reappointment and the Company’s Articles of Association and 
subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal 
of a Director. During 2015, the Committee agreed a framework 
for succession planning with the current Non-Executive Directors 
designed to phase future recruitment so that the composition of the 
Board can be refreshed whilst ensuring continuity. Under this plan, 
Alan Coppin will retire from the Board following the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting and Janet Ashdown will take over from Alan Coppin 
as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee on his retirement.
The Committee will be working with management on a high level 
review of senior management succession planning below Board level 
during 2016, focusing on the development of internal talent and 
potential succession to the Board.
Reappointment of Directors
Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with a 
detailed description of his or her role and responsibilities, and 
received a detailed business induction. All Directors have an annual 
one-to-one development review meeting with the Chairman to 
appraise performance, set personal objectives and discuss any 
development and training needs to enable them to continue to add 
value to the Board. The Committee expects to develop this process 
during 2016 to include a 360-degree assessment of individual and 
collective performance with contributions from senior management 
and other business stakeholders.
Before any Director is proposed for re-election, or has their 
appointment renewed, the Committee considers the outcome 
of the reviews to ensure that the Director continues to be effective 
and demonstrates commitment to the role. The Chairman provides 
an explanation to shareholders as to why the Director should be 
re-elected and confirming that a formal performance evaluation 
has taken place when the resolution to re-elect is circulated.
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors can only hold 1 
external company Non-Executive directorship. Voluntary service on 
the governing board of a social, trade or charitable organisation is 
also permitted. Details of the external appointments held by the 
Executive Directors are included in the biographical notes on pages 
34 and 35.
There have been no changes to my own other commitments during 
the year, which are also listed on page 34.
Governance
The Committee has acted in accordance with the principles of the 
Code in developing and applying its succession plans and policies. 
The Committee’s effectiveness, including the effective application 
of those principles, is assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation 
process. The evaluation concluded that the Committee had been 
successful in securing a good mix of skills and experience in the 
composition of the current Board. The framework for the refreshment 
of skills, experience and diversity to support the needs of the 
business and its stakeholders in the future is transparent and 
well understood.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
11 March 2016 Corporate Governance
44
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect 
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
 — select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 — make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 — for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 — for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Parent Company Financial Statements; and
 — prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, IAS 1 requires 
that Directors:
 — properly select and apply accounting policies; 
 — present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 — provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 — make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors of the annual 
financial report
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report and whose names and functions are listed on pages 34 and 
35 confirm that, to the best of each of their knowledge:
 — the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 — the Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware, and 
each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a 
Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
45
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Going concern
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
these Financial Statements in accordance with “Going Concern 
and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009” 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. 
The Directors considered that it was appropriate to do so, having 
reviewed any uncertainties that may affect the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern for the next 12 months from the 
date these Financial Statements were approved.
Cautionary statement and Directors’ liability
This Annual Report 2015 has been prepared for, and only for, the 
members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. Neither 
the Company nor the Directors accept or assume any liability to any 
person to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come except to the extent that such liability arises and may not 
be excluded under English law. Accordingly, any liability to a person 
who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading 
statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with 
Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the Group’s financial condition, results, strategy, plans and 
objectives. These statements are not forecasts or guarantees of 
future performance and involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in 
the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed, implied or 
forecast by these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking 
statements in this Annual Report are based on information known 
to the Group as at the date of this Annual Report and the Group 
has no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at 
The Cedar Court Hotel, Ainley Top, Huddersfield HD3 3RH at 11.00 am 
on Wednesday 18 May 2016, together with explanatory notes on the 
resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to 
shareholders with this Annual Report.
By Order of the Board:
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
11 March 2016 Corporate Governance
46
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Alan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s introduction
Our Remuneration Policy was approved at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting on 14 May 2014 and is intended to apply for 3 years. 
This report summarises the key features of the Policy applied in 2015. 
The full Policy can be found in the Company’s 2013 Remuneration 
Report, accessible via the Investor Relations section of our website 
(www.marshalls.co.uk). This report has been approved by the Board 
and signed on its behalf.
Alan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee members
 — Alan Coppin – Chairman
 — Andrew Allner
 — Janet Ashdown
 — Mark Edwards
 — Tim Pile
Remuneration Committee Report
I am pleased to report to you on the Remuneration Committee’s 
activities and objectives during 2015. 
Executive pay continues to be high on the agendas of shareholders 
and stakeholders alike. Understandably, shareholders want to ensure 
that the Executive team running the business is being remunerated 
on a basis consistent with their performance, the performance 
of the business, and the value that is delivered to shareholders. The 
Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of shareholder 
and stakeholder accountability, and I have personally endeavoured 
to ensure that this year’s Remuneration Report is transparent and 
easy to read, and clearly shows how we have applied our policy 
in a way that is consistent with best practice without divulging 
sensitive information. 
This report is divided into 3 sections: the Chairman’s Annual 
Statement (this introduction); an "at a glance" summary of the key 
features of our Remuneration Policy and its application; and our Annual 
Remuneration Report, explaining how the Policy was implemented 
during 2015.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in May 2014 
with a strong majority of over 87 per cent of all votes cast. The 
Committee has applied the Policy consistently throughout the year 
and considers that it remains appropriate. Consequently, we do not 
propose to resubmit the Policy to a vote at our 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, although the key features of the Policy are incorporated into 
this report for ease of reference. The Annual Remuneration Report 
and this Annual Statement will be subject to an advisory vote 
of shareholders.
In particular, the Marshalls Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) was 
introduced in 2014 to replace both the previous annual deferred 
bonus plan and the Group’s 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (“2005 
LTIP”) as the vehicle for delivery of performance related variable 
incentives. The MIP was approved by a substantial majority of our 
shareholders and incorporates current “best practice” remuneration 
principles, including an additional 2-year holding period after vesting 
for share awards which vest after 3 years, and appropriate clawback 
and malus provisions both during and after the vesting period. More 
than 70 per cent of the Directors’ maximum variable remuneration 
now takes the form of shares or share equivalents.
Remuneration Committee Report pages 46 – 48 46
At a Glance Summary pages 49 – 52 49
Annual Remuneration Report pages 53 – 60 53
Remuneration Policy 
www.marshalls.co.uk/remuneration Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
47
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our strategic objectives in 2015 were focused on growing the 
business organically, maximising our operational efficiencies to 
meet growing demand, and accelerating the pace of innovation 
in products and services to retain and develop our market leading 
position. The financial targets set at the beginning of 2015 for 
MIP awards required achievement of significant EPS growth and 
reduction of net debt as the proxies for measuring progress against 
these objectives. Our brand, market leadership and sustainability 
objectives were incorporated through the addition of non-financial 
criteria (customer service and health and safety improvement), 
with a discount factor of 20 per cent if they were not met.
At the time of grant, the targets set for maximum performance 
took account of the “best case” consensus expectations of our 
shareholders and incorporated significant stretch against these 
expectations and the Group’s 201 5 budget. I am delighted that the 
business made considerable progress during 201 5, and performance 
against these objectives in 2015 was very strong, with EPS up by 
41 per cent from 10.13 pence to 14.32 pence and net debt reducing 
from £30.5 million to £1 1.5 million. The health and safety and customer 
service targets were also fully achieved. Share price rose by 39 per cent 
from 234 pence to 325 pence during the year and the regular dividend 
increased by 17 per cent in line with our dividend policy.
This very positive performance in 2015 is reflected in the level 
of Element A and Element B awards earned under the MIP , at the 
maximum end of the designated range; it is also expected to result in 
the vesting of outstanding Performance Share awards granted in 
2013 under the 2005 LTIP .
Details of Directors’ awards earned in 2015 and the performance 
measures used are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Salary increases for 2016
When recruiting new Directors, it is our policy to offer an initial package 
that is lower than the median or target group with scope for increase once 
the Director is established in the role. In line with Policy, the Committee set 
the package for Jack Clarke at a level that was lower than the median and 
that of the previous Finance Director when he became Finance 
Director in 2014. Now that Jack Clarke has completed a full year with 
the business as Finance Director, the Committee has conducted a 
detailed review and benchmarking of his package against a comparator 
group, the result of which indicated that an upward adjustment of 
more than inflation / general pay within the Group would be appropriate 
to bring it closer to overall target positioning for the role, as envisaged 
under the Policy. An upward adjustment of 16.75 per cent in aggregate for 
the Finance Director was approved with effect from 1 January 2016. 
The salary of the Chief Executive and the fees of the Chairman and 
other Non-Executive Directors were increased with effect from 
1 January 2016 by the same inflation based percentage as applied 
generally to salaries for the wider workforce.
Main activities of the Committee
During 2015 the Committee met 4 times, and there were additional 
discussions and meetings with shareholders and with external 
remuneration consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”). The 
Chief Executive and the Company Secretary attend Committee meetings 
where appropriate. Attendance at meetings is shown on page 40.
How we performed in 2015
Strategic objective Measure Expressed as Outcome Link to strategy
Maximise operational efficiencies and 
increase output to meet demand
Profit / cash EPS / net debt Operating profit: £37.5m 
(+48%); EPS: 14.32p (+41%); 
gearing: 6.0%
EPS and net
debt key measure
Retain market leading position 
and grow profit
Profit EPS EPS: 14.32p (+41%) EPS and net
debt key measure
Strengthen the brand, develop trust 
and excellence
Customer service Customer service 
index
98% Adjustment
mechanism
Grow sustainably, investing in our 
people and protecting their wellbeing
Health and safety Health and safety
accident reduction
43% reduction
year on year
Adjustment
mechanism
Meetings Matters discussed
February – March 2015 Review of continued appropriateness of Remuneration Policy. Measure achievement of incentive targets for 2014 
and approve incentive scheme payments. Determination of 2015 MIP performance targets and individual awards 
for 2015. Review 2014 Remuneration Committee Report. Approve proposed Sharesave Scheme and Bonus Share 
Plan (providing bonus shares for those in annual bonus schemes other than the MIP) to be submitted to 2015 AGM.
July 2015 Review and amend Board expenses policy.
September – October 2015 Approval of option grants under Sharesave scheme. Consult external advisers on remuneration framework, 
including benchmarking (Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors); receive report on pay and benefit 
conditions elsewhere in the business. Review changes to law and regulatory guidance on remuneration. 
Review termination obligations arising under service contracts.
December 2015 Approval of proposed pay and benefits for Executive Directors and Chairman in 2016. Board review of 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than Chairman’s). Review and update Committee Terms of Reference. 
Evaluate Committee performance. Corporate Governance
48
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Remuneration Committee Report continued
Supporting wider share ownership
The Committee is supportive of the Company’s employee 
engagement agenda, including encouraging wider share ownership 
within the business. During 2015, the life of the Company’s existing 
Share Purchase Plan (the “SIP”), under which all employees may 
purchase shares out of pre-tax salary, was extended for a further 
10 years with shareholder approval. Shareholder approval was also 
granted at the 2015 AGM for the introduction of an all-employee 
Sharesave (“SAYE”) scheme. The SAYE scheme was launched in 
September 2015 with an allocation of 1 million shares offered 
to participants at a 20 per cent discount to market value, and 
was very well received, with approximately 46 per cent of our 
employees across all sites taking up the invitation to save, 
with an average aggregate monthly saving of £107,000.
Although eligible to participate, Executive Directors and those senior 
managers who could receive shares through participation in other bonus 
schemes chose not to join the SAYE scheme to allow the maximum 
number of allocated shares to be available to the wider workforce.
Shareholders also approved a Bonus Share Plan, under which those 
in operational bonus schemes other than the MIP (mainly sales force 
and managerial staff) will receive an element of bonus in the form 
of shares. Awards of shares under the Bonus Share Plan will be made 
following announcement of the 2015 results based on performance 
in 2015. Executive Directors and other MIP participants do not 
participate in the Bonus Share Plan.
Statement of shareholder voting
The table below shows the May 2015 Annual General Meeting voting results on the resolutions relating to remuneration.
For and
discretion as a Against as a
percentage of percentage of
For and discretion votes cast Against votes cast Withheld
Resolution 12 (Remuneration Report) Votes 138,048,276 99.44 773,621 0.56 6,428,326
Resolution 13 (Bonus Share Plan) Votes 144,287,439 99.71 415,793 0.29 537,375
Resolution 14 (SAYE Plan) Votes 144,650,936 99.61 558,207 0.39 41,080
Resolution 15 (extension of SIP) Votes 144,839,289 99.75 364,668 0.25 46,266
The Committee believes the percentage of votes in favour of 
the Remuneration Report and the wider share plan initiatives 
shows that shareholders remain very supportive of the Group’s 
remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration disclosure
Our Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2008 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Looking to the future
As a Committee, our focus is to create and develop a remuneration 
structure that supports the business strategy of the Company as 
well as the interests of our shareholders. This is my last Chairman’s 
introduction, and I would like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support, as Janet Ashdown will take over as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee after the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 
Janet and I have worked closely together to ensure an effective 
handover, and both Janet and I will be available at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016 to answer any questions 
on our Policy, its application and this Remuneration Report.
Alan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 March 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
49
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary
Remuneration policy summary
Element Policy summary description Opportunity / maximum
Fixed remuneration
Base salary An Executive Director’s basic salary is considered by the Committee 
on appointment and reviewed annually or when an individual 
changes position or takes on additional responsibility. In reviewing 
base salary, the Committee considers remuneration practices within 
the Group as a whole and, where relevant, objective research on 
companies within the Company’s peer groups. Other factors taken 
into account include:
 — the individual performance and experience of the 
Executive Director;
 — the general performance of the Company; and
 — the economic environment.
Salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
The Remuneration Committee policy in relation to salary is:
 — up to the median salary on appointment depending on the 
experience and background of the new Executive Director;
 — on promotion, up to the median salary for the new role, 
otherwise pay increases will not exceed the higher 
of inflation and / or pay rises generally for Group 
employees; and
 — individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may 
have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until 
they become established in their role. In such cases 
subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the 
average until the target positioning is achieved.
Benefits Benefits for Executive Directors are a fully expensed company car, 
annual medical and private medical insurance (including spouse and 
dependent children up to age 24), and death-in-service insurance.
Executive Directors may be entitled to claim travel and 
accommodation expenses subject to agreed limits on appointment.
The Company may carry permanent health insurance cover in 
respect of up to 100 per cent of an Executive Director’s salary. 
Although not a benefit to Executive Directors, this insurance offers 
comfort to Executive Directors in the event of long-term ill health.
The maximum value available is the cost of the benefits.
Pension / salary 
supplement in 
lieu of pension
Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined 
contribution section of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme. The 
Company contributes at an agreed percentage of basic salary.
Executive Directors may take a pensions allowance in place of 
the Company’s contribution to the Scheme.
Pension allowances are excluded for the purposes of calculating any 
other element of remuneration based on a percentage of salary.
20 per cent of base salary.
In this section we set out our remuneration principles, the key 
elements of our Remuneration Policy and how the Policy will be 
implemented in 2016. We have also highlighted performance and 
remuneration outcomes for 2015, reported in full in the Annual 
Remuneration Report.
The Company’s Remuneration Policy has been designed with the 
following aims:
 — to ensure that incentives and targets support the delivery of, 
and are fully aligned with, our key strategic objectives;
 — to avoid complexity within the incentive structure while 
retaining flexibility to address changing market conditions;
 — to ensure that a significant proportion of variable pay is awarded 
in shares or share equivalents; and
 — to continue to meet regulatory and best practice guidelines 
on remuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy aims to encourage behaviours that will 
ensure the sustainability and long-term health of the business and 
avoid inappropriate risk taking, while recognising and rewarding 
the creation of shareholder value. Remuneration targets are 
designed to support the delivery of our key strategic objectives. 
Our remuneration packages also need to be appropriate to attract, 
motivate and retain talent, both at Executive Director level and 
throughout the business.
A summary of the relevant elements of the Policy table is set out below. Corporate Governance
50
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary continued
Element Policy summary description Opportunity / maximum
Variable performance related remuneration
The Marshalls Incentive 
Plan (“MIP”)
Element A
Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 
objectives set by Remuneration Committee. If conditions met, 
50 per cent of earned award is paid as cash and 50 per cent deferred 
as shares into individual plan account.
50 per cent of accrued plan account balance paid out annually for 
3 years, provided forfeiture threshold exceeded each year, with the 
final balance paid at the end of the fourth year.
Awards subject to continued employment at end of the period.
The forfeiture thresholds, if not achieved, result in the loss of up to 
50 per cent of unpaid awards.
Malus and clawback provisions also apply.
150 per cent of salary.
MIP Element B Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 
objectives set by Remuneration Committee. Awards are made 
annually in the form of nil-cost options or conditional shares, and 
are subject to continued employment and a financial underpin 
for 3 years.
Awards become exercisable or unconditional after 3 years but, 
once vested, may not be sold for a further 2 years.
Participants build up a shareholding over 5 years.
There is a financial underpin which, if not achieved over 3 years, 
results in the loss of up to 50 per cent of unvested awards.
Malus and clawback provisions also apply.
100 per cent of salary.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors are required to retain 50 per cent of the net 
number of shares earned under the Company’s incentive 
arrangements until the shareholding requirement is satisfied.
A new Executive Director may build up the minimum requirement 
within the first 5 years from the year of joining. Failure to meet 
the shareholding requirement within 5 years of appointment 
will result in a reduction in the future levels of award under the 
Company’s incentive plans.
The minimum shareholding requirement is 200 per cent of salary 
for the CEO and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Non‑ Executive 
Directors’ fees
The Chairman’s fee is set by the Committee. Fees are reviewed annually 
and periodically benchmarked against equivalent roles in the same 
comparator groups as are used for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any bonus, do not 
participate in awards under the Company’s share plans, and are not 
eligible to join the Company’s pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and 
accommodation costs in connection with the performance 
of their duties.
The Company’s policy in relation to fees is:
 — up to median level fees on appointment depending 
on the experience and background of the new 
Non-Executive Director;
 — increases during a term of office will not normally exceed the 
lower of inflation or the general rise for employees; and
 — fees may be adjusted to recognise significant change in 
responsibility levels (for example, if the Company’s ranking 
as a constituent of the FTSE All Share Index changes).
Remuneration policy summary continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
51
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Implementation of policy during 2016 and any changes to
Executive Director earnings for 2015
Decision Rationale
Element (fixed)
Salary 2.5 per cent salary increase for Chief Executive. Chairman 
and Non‑Executive Directors’ fees also rose by 2.5 per cent, 
both with effect from January 2016. Finance Director 
salary increased by 16.75 per cent. 
2016 increase for Chief Executive and Non‑ Executive 
Directors reflects 2.5 per cent inflation award for the 
workforce as a whole. Finance Director salary was below 
median; the increase brings the overall package closer to 
target positioning against median.
Benefits No overall change in range of benefits. The current range and level of benefits remains appropriate.
Martyn Coffey receives travel and accommodation 
expenses within a fixed 3‑ year allowance.
Jack Clarke also received travel and accommodation 
expenses and relocation assistance.
Pension Neither Director participates in the Company scheme: 
both receive their pension contribution entitlement 
in the form of a salary supplement.
Principle of employer pension contributions remains valid 
– no change needed.
Element (variable)
2005 LTIP Historic long‑ term incentive scheme: awards outstanding 
from 2013 and 2014. No further awards ‑ replaced by 
Element B of the MIP . 
Element B of MIP delivers awards in the form of shares based 
on achievement of targets set annually but with deferral 
and underpin condition over a period of up to 5 years.
MIP Combines annual deferred bonus (Element A) and 
long‑ term shareholding (Element B). Details of 2015 awards 
are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report. 2016 
financial targets will be EPS (75 per cent) and the ratio 
of operating cash flow (“OCF”) to EBITDA (25 per cent).
EPS remains a good measure of performance against strategic 
objectives and for 2016 the ratio of OCF to EBITDA has been 
introduced as the secondary measure most closely aligned 
with strategic objectives. Customer service and health and 
safety targets also remain.
Executive Director earnings for 2015
Notes
(a) The base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the single total figure of remuneration table on page 53.
(b) Achievement of “target” financial conditions results in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP being earned.
(c) “ Below threshold” assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for both Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay under 
the MIP is earned.
(d) “Outperformance” represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP.
(e) The 2015 actual excludes Martyn Coffey's 2013 LTIP award which may vest. This award has been included on page 52 in the Directors interests in shares table.
Finance Director
Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Key MIP Element B MIP Element A Salary, benefits and pension
1,000 500 0 1,500 2,000
27% 40% 33%
42% 35% 23%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance 27% 40% 33%
42% 35% 23%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance
2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0
Chief Executive
27% 40% 33% 2015 actual 27% 40% 33% 2015 actual
(£’000) (£’000) Corporate Governance
52
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary continued
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”)
The MIP incorporates:
 — Element A, an annual bonus award carrying a maximum of 150 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent must be deferred into shares; and
 — Element B, an award normally in the form of a nil‑ cost option to acquire shares, carrying a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, conditional 
on continued employment for 3 years from grant and 50 per cent of which is also subject to a financial condition over the 3‑ year period. 
Element B shares must be held for a further 2 years after vesting.
Both awards depend on achievement of the performance conditions set by the Committee at the date of award. The table below shows the 
2015 performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied.
Percentage
of maximum Percentage Percentage
contribution Percentage of salary of salary
based on Minimum Maximum 2015 of target earned earned
Measurement measurement target target Actual achieved (Element A) (Element B)
EPS 75% 12.12p 14.14p 14.32p 100% 112.5 37.5
Net debt 25% £27.5m £22.5m £11.5m 100% 75.0 25.0
Non‑ financial targets 20% deduction 
if not met
95% (customer service)
10% reduction
(health and safety)
N/A All met 100% No 
deduction
No
deduction 
Directors’ interests in shares
Notes:
(a) The 2013 LTIP award for Martyn Coffey is assumed to have fully vested and is shown in Actual.
(b) The information in the above chart is taken from the table showing Directors’ shareholdings on page 59.
Key
200% 100% 0 300% 600%
100%
444%
Percentage of salary
400% 500%
Finance Director
Key  Contingent 
(and deferred)
  Actual 
(non‑ contingent)
 Requirement
200% 100% 0 300% 600%
200%
213%
Chief Executive
500%
Percentage of salary
400% 500%
  Contingent 
(and deferred)
  Actual 
(non‑ contingent)
 Requirement
1% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
53
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Remuneration Report
This report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and explains how the Remuneration Policy 
has been implemented. Comparative figures for the 2014 financial year have also been provided.
Single total figure of remuneration in 2015 – Executive Directors (audited)
Fixed (£'000) Performance related (£'000)
Salary supplement Annual bonus Long-term incentives
Salary Other benefits in lieu of pension MIP Element A MIP Element B LTIP/MIP Total
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Martyn Coffey 412 400 23 21 82 75 525 298 206 199 816 108 2,064 1,101
Jack Clarke 237 58 11 2 47 11 209 43 119 114 – – 623 228
Total 649 458 34 23 129 86 734 341 325 313 816 108 2,687 1,329
Note a Note b Note c Note d
Notes e
and f 
Notes:
(a)  Jack Clarke joined the Group and was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014. The 2014 column includes his remuneration for the period between 1 October 
and 31 December 2014.
(b)  Benefits are car / car allowance, fuel / fuel allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and travel and accommodation expenses.
(c)  All Directors received salary supplement allowance in lieu of contributions into the Group’s pension scheme throughout the year. No Director had any entitlement 
under the defined benefit section of the pension scheme and no additional benefit was received as a result of early retirement.
(d)  The Annual bonus column shows 50 per cent of the total bonus contribution earned under the MIP Element A in respect of 2015 performance, and 50 per cent of the 
total value of Element B shares awarded which are deferred but are not subject to further performance conditions (other than continued employment). The remaining 
50 per cent in respect of 2015 Element A is deferred into shares in the MIP account which are subject to performance and employment-based forfeiture for a further 
holding period. The remaining 50 per cent of 2015 Element B shares is subject to performance and employment-based forfeiture for a 3-year deferred period. These 
deferred elements will be disclosed in the LTIP column when the conditions are satisfied.
(e)  The LTIP column shows the aggregate value of sums released from MIP or LTIP account balances from earlier years that are no longer subject to deferral and forfeiture risk 
based on performance in 2015.
(f)  The LTIP column includes the 2013 Performance Share Award under the 2005 LTIP made to Martyn Coffey on joining in 2013. Vesting of this LTIP award was, exceptionally, 
dependent on achieving a minimum share price target over a predetermined period of 30 days following the announcement of the 2015 results and on continued 
employment. As at the latest practicable date for approving this report, the performance condition was not yet capable of measurement. However, as permitted under 
the Regulations, where the performance targets are substantially (but not fully) completed by the end of the relevant financial year, an expected value may be shown. 
The average mid-market price of the Company’s shares for the 30-day period ending on 31 December 2015 was 324 pence. This is above the share price target of 250 pence 
required for maximum vesting and, accordingly, the LTIP column for 2015 shows Martyn Coffey’s 2013 LTIP Performance Share Award as vesting in full. The award has been 
valued in accordance with the Regulations as the number of shares assumed to be vesting multiplied by the average share price over the last quarter of 2015 (335 pence). 
The outcome of the 30-day measurement period and any vesting will be the subject of a separate announcement, and if Martyn Coffey’s 2013 LTIP Performance Share 
Award has not vested in full, an explanatory note will be included in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration and the single figure for 2015 will be restated.
Setting pay in context
The following graphs illustrate the relationship between total expenditure on remuneration and other disbursements from profit over the 
past 3 years.
The 4 elements represent the most significant outgoings for the Company during the financial year. In addition to staff pay and shareholder 
distributions, capital investment and taxation are shown for the following reasons:
 — investment – the Company increased capital investment during 2015 as part of its stated plan to invest strategically to take advantage 
of market demand and in order to ensure that the business grows in a sustainable manner with a corresponding long-term benefit for 
all stakeholders; and
 — tax – the Company is a UK taxpayer and feels that it is beneficial to demonstrate to all its stakeholders its total UK tax contribution. 
The most significant elements of the Company’s UK tax contribution are VAT, employer’s NI, corporation tax, fuel duty and aggregates 
levy. As profitability increases, corporation tax will also increase. In 2015 the Group was accredited with the Fair Tax Mark. Corporate Governance
54
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Relative importance of spend on pay
 
Total shareholder return
This chart shows the Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance compared to (i) the FTSE Small Cap Index and (ii) the FTSE 250. 
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends. Marshalls plc was a constituent of the FTSE Small Cap Index for the period from 
January 2009 to August 2015 and became a constituent of the FTSE 250 in August 2015. This chart shows the value at 31 December 2015 
of £100 invested in Marshalls plc on 1 January 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in (i) the FTSE Small Cap Index and 
(ii) the FTSE 250. The other plotted points are the intervening financial year ends. Marshalls’ TSR performance was 32 per cent better than 
the overall performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index and 30 per cent better than the FTSE 250 in 2015.
CEO pay in last 7 years
This table shows how pay for the CEO role has changed in the last 7 years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
(Note a) (Note b)
Year £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Single figure remuneration 711 671 752 938 3,143 1,101 2,064
% of maximum annual 
bonus earned 46.4% 38.6% 78.1% 33.0% 63.6% 99.3% 100%
% of maximum LTIP 
awards vesting 0 0 0 0 63.0% 0 100%
Notes:
(a) The years up to 2013 show the previous CEO’s (Graham Holden’s) remuneration.
(b)  The 2013 single figure is made up of the previous CEO’s base salary and benefits up to 10 October 2013 and Martyn Coffey’s proportionate entitlement to salary, 
benefits and annual bonus for his period of service in 2013. It also includes the various incentive payments that crystallised as a result of Graham Holden being a “good 
leaver” by reason of retirement in 2013 (see 2013 Remuneration Report for full details).
2013 2013 2013 2013
67.1
10.3
6.1
50.5
2014 2014 2014 2014
Staff pay (£’m) Distributions to 
shareholders (£’m)
Capital investment (£’m) Tax (£’m)
2015 2015 2015 2015
76.6
10.8 12.0
60.4
79.7
12.3
15.5
69.0
Percentage change
+19.4%
+154.1%
+36.6%
+18.8%
 Marshalls plc
 FTSE 250
Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Jan 09
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Dec 15
 FTSE Small Cap Index Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
55
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Percentage change in CEO’s remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2014 and 2015 compares with 
the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the UK-based employees of the Group as a whole.
Percentage
Salary change Taxable benefits Percentage Bonus (Notes b and c) Percentage
£’000 (Note a) £’000 change £’000 increase
2015 2014 % 2015 2014 % 2015 2014 %
CEO pay 412 400 2.9 23 21 9.5 731 497 47.1
UK total pay 79,279 73,412 8.0 290 304 (4.6) 1,875 2,336 (19.7)
Number of employees 2,236 2,131 4.9 346 438 (21.0) 382 273 39.9
Average per employee 35.5 34.4 2.9 0.8 0.7 20.8 4.9 8.6 (42.6)
Notes:
(a)  Martyn Coffey’s salary was increased on 1 January 2015 by 2.9 per cent, the same percentage increase as given to the workforce as a whole.
(b) The bonus is the non-deferred amount earned for the relevant year taken from the total remuneration table.
(c)  The comparative bonus figure for 2014 includes the exceptional acceleration of incentives for "good leavers" at senior management and Executive Director level. 
This explains the decrease in employee bonus in 2015.
Outcomes of incentive schemes in 2015 (audited)
This section explains how 2015 performance is reflected in rewards earned under the Company’s incentive schemes.
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”)
The MIP incorporates:
 — Element A, an annual bonus award carrying a maximum of 150 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent must be deferred into shares; and
 — Element B, an award normally in the form of a nil-cost option to acquire shares, carrying a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, conditional 
on continued employment for 3 years from grant and 50 per cent of which is also subject to a financial condition over the 3-year period. 
Element B shares must be held for a further 2 years after vesting.
Both awards depend on achievement of the performance conditions set by the Committee at the date of award. The table below shows the 
2015 performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied.
Percentage Percentage Percentage
of maximum Percentage of salary of salary
contribution based Minimum Maximum 2015 of target earned earned
Measurement on measurement target target Actual achieved (Element A) (Element B)
EPS 75% 12.12p 14.14p 14.32p 100% 112.5 37.5
Net debt 25% £27.5m £22.5m £11.5m 100% 75.0 25.0
Non-financial targets 20% deduction 
if not met
95% (customer service)
10% reduction (health and safety)
N/A All met 100% No
deduction
No
deduction 
Performance conditions were set at the beginning of 2015 and the Committee took account of both internal budgets and external factors 
such as the market consensus of investors for the full year 2015. During the year, cash flow from sales improved significantly and pre-tax profit 
grew by 57 per cent. This performance meant that the stretching EPS and net debt targets set at the beginning of the year were achieved 
in full, resulting in a 100 per cent achievement against target. The share price improved by 39 per cent during the year (31 December 2014: 
234 pence; 31 December 2015: 325 pence), which means the underlying value of share awards increased.
EPS
EPS relates to our strategic objective to grow profits. The Group’s profit before tax increased by 57 per cent from £22.4 million to £35.3 million. 
EPS improved by 41 per cent from 10.13 pence in 2014 to 14.32 pence in 2015. EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) based on the audited results of the Group and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard to one-off items.
Net debt
Net debt is relevant for measurement of cash flow and overall sustainability. The Group’s net debt at 31 December 2015 of £11.5 million was 
better than the lower (better) end of the target range set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
Additional performance conditions
Our customers are at the heart of our business model, and our measurement of customer service uses factors such as product availability, 
on-time delivery performance and administrative and delivery accuracy to assess performance. The Group’s average customer service 
performance, assessed monthly, exceeded its minimum target of 95 per cent throughout 2015. The Group also continued its excellent 
performance against its stated objective of reducing days lost to accidents by 10 per cent year on year. The actual reduction in days lost to 
accidents year on year was 43 per cent. Had these 2 targets not been met, the overall level of MIP award would have reduced by 20 per cent; 
the achievement of these measures means that no reduction factor will apply. Corporate Governance
56
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Remuneration Report continued
MIP awards 2015
Element A
Plan accounts Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke
Opening balance (number of shares) (Note a) 431,715 62,058
2015 contribution (% of salary earned) 150.0% 150.0%
Value £617,400 £355,005
2015 element released (Note b) £(524,557) £(208,532)
Closing balance (deferred into shares) £524,558 £208,531
Number of shares represented by closing balance (Note c) 161,900 64,361
Element B
Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke
Number of shares awarded 127,037 73,046
Percentage of salary 100.0% 100.0%
Value £411,600 £236,670
EPS forfeiture threshold (Note d) 10.13p 10.13p
Notes:
(a)  50 per cent of the earned Element A award is released to the participant as annual bonus; the remaining 50 per cent is deferred into the participant’s MIP account and converted 
into shares. The deferred proportion of the 2014 Element A award was converted into shares by reference to the mid-market average value for the 30-day period ending on 
31 December 2014. Dividends paid during the year are also added to the carried-forward plan account. The chart above shows the resulting opening balance value calculated by 
reference to the mid-market average value for the 30-day period ended 31 December 2015 and adding the value of dividends of 6.25 pence per share paid during 2015.
(b)  2015 is year 2 of the 5-year MIP. The earned Element A award for 2015 is added to the individual’s plan account, and 50 per cent of the resulting balance is released 
to the participant as annual bonus; the remaining 50 per cent is deferred into the participant’s MIP account and converted into shares. The deferral is repeated 
in each subsequent year up to the final year, in which, subject to any forfeiture provisions, 100 per cent of any balance in the MIP account is released.
(c) The carried-forward balance is converted back into shares by reference to the mid-market average value for the 30-day period ended 31 December 2015 (324 pence).
(d)  If the actual EPS falls below the forfeiture threshold over the 3 years before vesting, 50 per cent of the balance of the award is forfeited. Once Element B shares have 
vested, they must normally be held for a further 2 years. Element B shares lapse on cessation of employment except in “good leaver” circumstances, in which case they 
vest on leaving and must be held for 2 years from the date of leaving.
2005 LTIP: 2013 Performance Share Awards
A proportion of Performance Share Awards granted in 2013 under the 2005 LTIP may vest following the announcement of the 2015 annual 
results. Vesting of the LTIP award granted to Martyn Coffey on joining in 2013 was, exceptionally, dependent on achieving a minimum share 
price target over a predetermined period of 30 days following the announcement of the 2015 results and on continued employment. As at 
the latest practicable date for approving this report, the performance condition was not yet capable of measurement but, as noted above, 
the expected outcome of this award has been included in the LTIP column of the single total remuneration table.
The expected outcome of the 2013 performance award against the targets is set out in the table below:
Share price target % of award vesting Actual* Number of shares vesting
Below 200p 0% 324p 243,412 (100%)
Between 200p and 250p Between 50% and 100% pro-rata on a straight line basis
* The share price used to estimate the expected outcome of the 2013 award has been taken as the average share price in the 30 days ending 31 December 2015 (324 pence).
Jack Clarke, having joined in 2014, does not hold a 2013 Performance Share Award under the 2005 LTIP .
201 3 LTIP awards made to other senior managers below Board level and to past Directors were made on the basis of EPS and OCF growth performance 
targets measured over the financial years ended 31 December 201 3, 2014 and 201 5. These targets were met in full, so these awards will vest in April 2016.
2005 LTIP awards: previous awards outstanding as at 31 December 2015
Executive Director
Number of Performance
Shares awarded 2014
2014 target EPS (75%) 
and OCF (25%) growth Actual 2014 awards
Potential level of vesting 
of 2014 award
Martyn Coffey 222,124 EPS growth (75% to 125%) EPS growth = 154.8% EPS 100% 
Jack Clarke 115,676 OCF growth (5% to 15%) OCF growth = 65.5% OCF 100% 
Notes:
(a) All estimates are measured as at 31 December 2015. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
57
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Single total figure of remuneration: Non‑ Executive Directors (audited)
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company’s incentive arrangements. Their fees are reviewed periodically and were last 
reviewed in October 2015. The Chairman’s fees are set by the Committee and the Chief Executive; other Non-Executive Directors’ fees are set 
by the Board as a whole. The Non-Executive Directors also received travel and accommodation expenses associated with attendance at Board 
meetings, and where this is a taxable benefit it is shown below as a grossed-up taxable amount.
Board fee Committee fees Expenses Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Andrew Allner
Chairman and Chairman 
of Nomination Committee
137 133 – – 1 10 138 143
Alan Coppin
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee and member of Audit 
and Nomination Committees
44 43 6 6 1 6 51 55
Janet Ashdown
Member of Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
33 – – – 1 – 34 –
Mark Edwards
Chairman of Audit Committee 
and member of Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
43 42 6 6 1 6 50 54
Tim Pile
Member of Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
43 42 – – 1 6 44 48
Total 300 260 12 12 5 28 317 300
The fees were increased by 2.5 per cent from 1 January 2016 in line with other Group employees.
In 2014 the Non-Executive Directors received a fixed allowance for travel and accommodation associated with attendance at Board Meetings. 
The grossed-up taxable amount is included in the 2014 column. In 2015, the policy was changed so that Non-Executive Directors no longer 
received this allowance but instead reclaimed travel and expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Payments to past Directors
Ian Burrell retired from the Board on 1 October 2014 and his employment ceased on his agreed retirement date of 30 June 2015. The total 
amount paid to Ian Burrell in respect of the financial year 2015 is set out below.
Salary Taxable benefits Pension allowance MIP Element A Total Date of
Director £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 leaving
Ian Burrell 123 4 37 189 353 30 June 2015
As a “good leaver” on retirement, the Committee made the following determinations in respect of Ian Burrell’s incentive awards:
2005 LTIP
Performance Share awards where the vesting period had not yet expired were pro-rated for the period from the date of grant to the actual 
date of cessation of employment subject to the proportionate satisfaction of the performance conditions on the date of cessation. Ian Burrell 
received 244,991 Performance Shares in respect of his 2013 and 2014 awards, representing his pro-rated entitlement at the date of leaving. 
The remaining balance of 104,109 Performance Shares awarded in 2013 and 2014 lapsed.
2014 MIP
98,941 shares, being Ian Burrell’s accrued MIP balance on his leaving date of 30 June 2015, vested following the leaving date. 8,295 of these 
shares are Element B shares awarded in respect of performance in 2014 and must be held for a further period of 2 years.
2015 MIP
Ian Burrell also received an award in respect of service during 2015 up to his leaving date under Element A of the MIP , shown above, which was 
paid in cash.
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office have been made or are due to be paid. Corporate Governance
58
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year (2016)
Executive Directors
Salary
The Committee approved a 2.5 per cent salary increase for Executive Directors effective from 1 January 2016, in line with inflation and 
increases for UK employees generally, and an exceptional increase of 16.75 per cent for Jack Clarke, in line with policy, to reflect that he 
is now established in the role and his performance as Finance Director is for the full year 2015.
1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Change 
Director £'000 £'000 %
Martyn Coffey 422 412 2.5
Jack Clarke 276 237 16.75
Benefits and pension
Benefits continue on the same basis as in 2015.
Variable pay / incentives
Executive Directors will be granted performance awards under the MIP conditional upon achieving certain performance conditions in 2016. 
The Committee has discretion under the Remuneration Policy to change the weightings of performance criteria to align with its priorities, 
including measures relating to performance on ESG issues. Our strategic priorities for 2016 are focused on improving profit margins, growing 
our business and developing our brand, while also remaining innovative and operating sustainably with the highest standards of health, 
safety and social responsibility. The Committee believes that EPS and the ratio of OCF to EBITDA are the most appropriate criteria for 
measuring achievement of our financial objectives and that the combination of financial and non-financial criteria avoids inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour. The weighting for the operation of 2016 awards under the MIP will be:
EPS   75%
OCF to EBITDA  25%
Targets are set between a minimum (0 per cent) and maximum (100 per cent) range in each case, with on-target (budget) performance 
expected to deliver 70 per cent of maximum.
Additional non-financial performance conditions to reflect our focus on brand, customers and employees will apply:
 — customer service (must remain at or above 95 per cent); and
 — health and safety incidence: the rate of accidents must not fall below the 2015 level achieved.
2015 was an exceptional year for health and safety performance, resulting in only 5.1 lost time accidents per 1 million hours worked, following 
the Group’s success in achieving a year on year reduction of significantly more than 10 per cent for the previous 8 years. The target is therefore 
to remain below this ratio during 2016.
There is a reduction of award value earned by 20 per cent if these additional conditions are not met.
Element A awards have a forfeiture threshold set annually at the time of confirmation of the award. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the 
deferred balance in a participant’s Element A MIP account is forfeited.
Element B awards also have a long-term financial underpin based on a minimum EPS threshold that must be maintained over the 3 years from 
the date of grant. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the Element B award is forfeited. Element B awards are granted after the end of the financial 
period by reference to which they have been earned and the underpin is set at the time of grant.
The measurement period under the MIP by reference to which these targets must be met will be the full financial year ending 31 December 2016. 
It is the view of the Committee that the targets for the MIP are commercially sensitive as they are primarily related to budgeted future profit and 
debt levels in the Company and therefore their disclosure in advance is not in the interests of the Company or shareholders. The Committee will, 
however, provide full retrospective disclosure to enable shareholders to judge the level of award provided against the targets set. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
59
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Non‑ Executive Directors
The Board approved an increase in the fee by 2.5 per cent from 1 January 2016, in line with Executive Directors and employees. Non-Executive 
Directors reclaim business expenses incurred in the performance of their duties retrospectively against duly presented invoices.
1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Percentage
Director £'000 £'000 increase
Andrew Allner (Chairman) 140.5 137.1 2.5
Janet Ashdown 43.8 – 2.5
Alan Coppin (SID) 51.7 50.4 2.5
Mark Edwards 50.6 49.4 2.5
Tim Pile 43.8 42.8 2.5
Shareholdings of Directors (audited)
In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a meaningful 
shareholding in the Company. There are no minimum holding requirements for Non-Executive Directors, but they would usually be expected 
to hold some shares in the Company.
The minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors are as follows:
Executive Director Percentage of salary Timescale to achieve/achieved
Martyn Coffey 200% Within 5 years of appointment
Jack Clarke 100% Within 5 years of appointment
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The following table sets out, in respect of each of the Directors:
 — the number of shares the Director holds unconditionally;
 — the number of deferred and conditional shares held under the incentive schemes that will vest following the 2015 results; and
 — the number of shares subject to unvested incentive awards.
Shares that may vest
Deferred and 
contingent Total interests
Beneficially following 2015 results Deferred shares share interests in shares (including
Shareholding requirement owned (Note b) (Note c) (Note d) contingent interests)
Number
of shares
% of required Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of
Director salary (Note a) shares shares shares shares shares
Executive
Martyn Coffey 200 253,292 26,558 243,412 124,846 508,869 903,685
Jack Clarke 100 72,822 371 – 71,786 251,824 323,981
Non‑ Executive
Andrew Allner – – 41,329 – – – 41,329
Janet Ashdown – – 5,900 – – – 5,900
Alan Coppin – – 10,000 – – – 10,000
Mark Edwards – – 78,000 – – – 78,000
Tim Pile – – 44,740 – – – 44,740
Notes:
(a) The closing price on 31 December 2015 of 325 pence per share has been used to measure the number of shares required.
(b)  The 2005 LTIP Performance Shares awarded to the CEO in 2013 shown in this table represent 100 per cent of the award; however, the 2013 award remains subject to 
outstanding performance conditions at the date of this report so the shares are contingent and may not vest or only a proportion may vest.
(c)  This column includes the 50 per cent proportion of share interests awarded in 2014 and 2015 under Element B of the MIP in the form of nil-cost options or conditional 
shares that may be exercised after the 3-year deferral period but where vesting is only dependent on continuing employment throughout the 3-year deferral period 
with no other performance conditions.
(d)  This column includes outstanding conditional interests under the 2005 LTIP in the form of Performance Shares awarded in 2014, and share interests awarded under the MIP 
(Element A deferred shares and Element B deferred shares) that remain subject to a financial performance conditions as well as to continued employment over the relevant 
deferral period. 50 per cent of Element A awards and 100 per cent of Element B awards shown in this column may be forfeited if the financial condition is not satisfied.
(e)  Share interests under Element A and Element B of the MIP are calculated by reference to the mid-market average value for the 30-day period ended 31 December 2015 (324 pence).
(f) The table above includes the interests of “connected persons” as defined under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Corporate Governance
60
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Service contracts and policy on termination payments
Each Executive Director has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company on not more than 12 months’ notice 
and by the Director on 6 months’ notice. Directors’ service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses. There are no contractual 
arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement. There is no agreement 
between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because 
of a takeover bid.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed under letters of appointment, usually for a term of 3 years. Either the 
Company or the Non-Executive Director may terminate the appointment before the end of the current term on 6 months’ notice. If the 
unexpired term is less than 6 months, notice does not need to be served. All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election. 
No compensation is payable if a Non-Executive Director is required to stand down.
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office on application 
to the Company Secretary and will also be on display at the Company’s Annual General Meeting.
The Committee and its advisers
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s responsibilities include:
 — setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors;
 — determining specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors and for the Chairman;
 — operating the Company’s employee share incentive arrangements;
 — providing guidance on remuneration for senior employees who report to the CEO; and
 — considering the broader remuneration policies for Group employees below Board level.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. No Director plays a part in any decision about his own remuneration. 
Alan Coppin, Janet Ashdown, Mark Edwards and Tim Pile are all Independent Non-Executive Directors within the definition of the Code, 
and Andrew Allner satisfied the independence condition on his appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in 2010. None of them have 
any personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in matters to be decided, nor do they have any conflicts of interest from 
cross-directorships or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
External advisers
The Company has appointed external remuneration advisers, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”). PwC attends meetings of the Committee 
by invitation. The Chief Executive attends as appropriate but may not participate in discussions about his own remuneration. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings.
PwC’s fees are agreed by the Remuneration Committee according to the work performed. The terms of its engagement are available on 
request from the Company Secretary. PwC also provided advice to the Company during the year in relation to corporate tax and pension 
matters. The Committee is satisfied that the advice from PwC is independent based on the separation of the team advising the Committee 
from any other work undertaken by PwC and the fact that PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group’s Code of Conduct. 
PwC’s work relating to Executive remuneration during 2015 included assistance in the preparation of the 2014 Remuneration Committee 
Report, benchmarking of total remuneration in respect of the Company and its comparator group, and general advice on remuneration 
trends, regulations and best practice. The amount paid to PwC in respect of remuneration advice received during 2015 was £15,000. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
61
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Mark Edwards
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report to you on the Audit Committee’s activities 
and objectives during 2015. This report, which is part of the 
Directors’ Report, explains how the Audit Committee has discharged 
its responsibilities during 2015, and reflects the recent changes to 
reporting under the Code. I hope you find it useful and informative.
The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting and 
to review the ongoing effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. 
The Committee provides assurance on the Group’s risk management 
processes and assesses information received by the external and 
internal audit functions. 
KPMG LLP, who were appointed to carry out the internal audit 
in 2015, following their replacement as statutory auditor during 
the year, conducted 8 separate detailed reviews and reported 
to the Committee with recommendations, all of which have been 
implemented or will be implemented during 2016.
Key areas of focus during the year included the Group’s cyber 
security policies and procedures and other processes and procedures 
relating to cyber risk and data protection generally. 
The Committee has reviewed the Group’s Financial Statements 
contained in this Annual Report and, following its review, is satisfied 
that the Committee has provided assurance to this effect to the 
Board that they present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
Mark Edwards
Audit Committee Chairman
Audit Committee members
 — Mark Edwards
 — Janet Ashdown
 — Alan Coppin 
 — Tim Pile
Audit Committee Report
Role and responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are:
 — to keep under review the Group’s financial and other systems 
and controls and financial reporting procedures;
 — to plan and scope the annual audit and half-yearly audit review, 
receive audit reports and review financial statements, taking 
account of accounting policies adopted and applicable 
reporting requirements;
 — to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements and 
advise the Board on whether they give a fair, balanced and 
understandable explanation of the Company’s business and 
performance over the relevant period;
 — to conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the 
internal audit process and report findings at least twice yearly 
to the Board;
 — to review and update the Company’s Risk Register;
 — to review external auditor independence and audit and 
non-audit fees and make recommendations regarding audit 
tender and the appointment and remuneration of the auditor; and
 — to review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious 
Concerns Policy and other policies relevant to financial security, 
compliance and business ethics.
The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board with 
responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the Listing 
Rules DTR 7.1.3R.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the 
Board is satisfied he has recent and relevant financial experience as 
required by the Code. Other members also have relevant financial 
experience. Their attendance at meetings is shown on page 40. 
During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and 
there were also meetings between the Audit Committee Chairman, 
the Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee’s performance was evaluated during 2015 as part of 
the Board evaluation process described in the Corporate Governance 
section of this Annual Report (pages 36 to 41). 
Committee Terms of Reference 
www.marshalls.co.uk/documents Corporate Governance
62
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Audit Committee Report continued
Highlights of 2015
When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee 
exercises its judgement in relation to matters drawn to its attention 
by the Finance Director from the internal audit function, the Risk 
Committee and the Group’s external auditor. The Committee meets 
the external auditor independently of management, giving the 
opportunity to ensure that it has full visibility of matters that have 
been the subject of particular discussions. The Committee also 
reports to the Board in relation to the going concern statement and 
the viability statement and whether the accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable.
The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control 
system, covering all material controls including its financial, operational 
and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year 
to 31 December 2015. 
The areas for particular focus in 2015 are summarised below.
Inventory provisioning
The Committee critically reviewed the carrying value of the Group’s 
finished goods inventory, particularly with regard to management’s 
assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory 
obsolescence. 
The gross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions 
recorded against obsolescence were reviewed by the Committee. 
This review was undertaken in the context of current trading and 
the forecast for the next financial year. In addition, the external 
auditor presented its findings with regard to the key audit testing 
over inventory valuation. The Committee also reviewed the 
effectiveness of controls in relation to inventory counting procedures 
and the satisfactory adjustment of any stock differences. KPMG 
undertook a specific review of this area. The Committee concurred 
with management’s assessment of the carrying value of Group 
inventories, and noted that there was considerable management 
focus on both the reduction in finished goods inventory and the 
general review of accounting controls within the management of 
inventory during 2015.
Revenue and rebate recognition
The Committee considered and critically reviewed the operating 
effectiveness of controls surrounding revenue recognition and 
management’s assessment of the appropriate level of provisions 
to recognise for rebates due to customers.
In addition, the external auditor presented its findings with regard to 
the key audit testing in this area. The Committee is satisfied with the 
controls and procedures that support the recognition of rebates due 
to customers.
Authorisation controls
During the year the Group undertook an internal review of 
the delegation of powers to operational management and the 
appropriateness of authorisation limits across all functional areas. 
The Committee noted management’s focus in this area and considered 
the conclusions of the review. The Committee is satisfied that robust 
controls are in place that cover delegation of authority procedures 
across the Group.
Other matters
Other matters considered by the Audit Committee included the risk 
management framework and cyber security controls.
External audit, auditor independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation to the Board on the appointment, reappointment 
and removal of the external auditor. It keeps under review the scope 
and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence 
and objectivity of the auditor. The Group’s current auditor, Deloitte 
LLP , has processes in place designed to maintain independence, 
including regular rotation of the audit partner. Deloitte LLP was 
appointed in May 2015 to replace KPMG LLP as statutory auditor 
following a tender process and, consequently, the Company has 
complied with the Competition and Markets Authority's final order 
on mandatory tendering. The Company has no contractual 
commitment obliging it to select any particular audit firm.
The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the independence 
of its external auditor. Any work awarded to the external auditor 
with a value of more than £5,000 in aggregate in any financial year, 
other than an audit, requires the specific approval of the Committee. 
Where the Committee perceives that the independence of the 
auditor could be compromised, the work will not be awarded 
to it. Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and 
non-audit services in 2015 are analysed in Note 3 on page 86, with 
no amounts paid for non-audit work. The aggregate amount paid 
to other firms of accountants for non-audit services in the same 
period was £156,000 (2014: £195,000).
An annual review of external audit effectiveness is undertaken 
by the Committee.
Risk management
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system of risk management and control, and for ensuring that it 
meets the necessary standards. They are also subject to a regular 
rolling programme of review, the results of which are periodically 
reported to the Board. The Group’s Risk Committee, comprising 
the Executive Directors and members of senior management 
with Executive accountability for particular risk areas, meets at least 
twice yearly to identify, evaluate and consider steps to manage any 
material risks which might threaten the Group’s business objectives.  Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
63
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the 
Group’s key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and 
the impact they would have on the Group. Against each risk, the 
effectiveness of the controls that exist to manage and, where 
possible, minimise or eliminate those risks are also listed. The Risk 
Register process identifies areas for action and independent audit 
assessment in order to test the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
control systems. Information relating to the management of risks 
and any changes to the assessment of key risks is regularly reported 
to the Board, and the Risk Register is updated to reflect changes. 
To the extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified during 
the review process, appropriate measures are taken to remedy these. 
During 2015, there was also a high level review of strategic risk by 
Non-Executive Directors, which was subsequently integrated into 
the overall Risk Register.
The Group has an established internal control framework, the 
key features of which include clearly defined reporting lines and 
authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly 
reporting system. The internal control framework governs the 
internal financial reporting process of the business, with checks 
and balances built into the system that are designed to reduce 
the likelihood of material error or fraud. 
Internal controls and audit
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal 
controls on an ongoing basis. The process of reviewing and reporting 
on the internal control system is carried out by KPMG LLP in their 
capacity as internal auditor for the Group. The annual internal audit 
programme is now derived from a risk-based assessment that takes 
into account the Risk Register and management input. This risk-based 
assessment is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. 
This process is overseen by the Finance Director. KPMG LLP 
are independent from the Company’s external auditor and have no 
other connection with the Group. Their work includes regular site 
visits and internal audit assignments of a financial and systems nature, 
including checks against previously completed self-assessment 
questionnaires. The results are reported to the Audit Committee. 
The Company operates a self-certification internal control 
process to support the internal audit process throughout the 
year. The internal audit programme includes both regular audit 
checks and assignments to look at areas of critical importance. 
These assignments form part of a much wider programme of 
independently audited aspects of the Group’s operations. Any areas 
of weakness that are identified through this process prompt a 
detailed action plan and a follow-up audit check to establish that 
actions have been completed. Instances of fraud or attempted 
fraud (if any) and preventative action plans are also reported to the 
Committee and recorded in a fraud register.
The Committee is pleased to report that no significant failings or 
weaknesses were identified during the year, and there were no losses 
identified as a result of fraud.
The Committee has reviewed the current process and has concluded 
that the utilisation of KPMG LLP as independent internal auditor is an 
efficient and effective means of managing the internal audit function. 
The Committee will be considering, with KPMG LLP , how this process 
can be developed further during 2016.
Whistleblowing and bribery
The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under 
the Serious Concerns Policy (our whistleblowing policy), which 
is available to all employees. This policy is displayed on operating 
site noticeboards and on the Company’s intranet, and sets out the 
procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any 
wrongdoing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal. 
The Serious Concerns Policy was reviewed during the year and 
the Committee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for 
the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters 
and for appropriate follow-up action. There was 1 matter raised 
under this policy during 2015 relating to an allegation of bullying 
at one of the Group’s operating sites, at which there were already 
steps in place to improve behaviours and employee relations at the 
time of the allegation. The allegation was investigated and action 
taken to address the issues identified, with the assistance of ACAS 
as an independent facilitator. 
The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing 
the policies and procedures adopted by the Company to prevent 
bribery. The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with 
regard to bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and 
supporting guidance for its employees, agents and contractors on 
hospitality and gifts. The policy and procedures are published on the 
Company website and displayed on operating site noticeboards. 
Online training is available to all employees via the Group’s internal 
learning zone to reinforce the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, and 
classroom-based training sessions are also held throughout the year. 
To date, 485 employees in decision-making roles with potential 
exposure to bribery risk have completed the training. There is a 
maintained register of employee interests and a gifts and hospitality 
record. The internal audit review programme included a review of the 
adequacy of the Company’s procedures in relation to the prevention 
of bribery, and recommendations from the internal audit process 
have been implemented in 2015, including the establishment of the 
Fraud Register.
The Report of the Audit Committee has been approved by the Board 
and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Edwards
Audit Committee Chairman
11 March 2016 Corporate Governance
64
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report – Other Regulatory Information
The information required by the Listing Rules (DTR 4.1.8R) is 
contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. 
Marshalls plc is registered with company number 5100353.
The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 34 and 35. 
Political donations: The Group made no donations during 
the year to any political party or political organisation or to any 
independent election candidate, whether in the European Union 
or elsewhere (2014: £nil).
Risk management: The Group’s risk management objectives, 
its approach to managing risk generally and its use of financial 
instruments are described in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 23. 
Further details of the Group’s risk management in relation to financial 
risks and its use of financial instruments to mitigate such risks are set 
out in Note 17 on pages 94 to 99.
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Group’s CO
2
 (greenhouse gas) 
emissions in 2015 are disclosed in the Strategic Report on pages 26 
and 27.
Employees: The Company’s policies in relation to disabled 
employees and employee involvement and communication are 
explained in the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 26.
Corporate governance: Details of how the Group complies with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out on pages 36 to 41.
Post balance sheet events of importance since 31 December 
2015: There have been no important events affecting the Group 
since the end of the financial year. Details of developments since the 
financial year ended 31 December 2015 are included in the Strategic 
Report on pages 1 to 33.
Research and development: Activity and likely future 
developments for the business are described in the Strategic Report 
on pages 1 to 33.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.75 pence 
(2014: 4.00 pence) per share which, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.25 pence (2014: 2.00 pence) per share, makes a 
combined dividend of 7.00 pence (2014: 6.00 pence) per share. 
The Board is also recommending payment of a supplementary 
dividend of 2.00 pence per share, which is discretionary and 
non-recurring. Payment of the final dividend and the supplementary 
dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be 
made on 8 July 2016 to shareholders registered at the close 
of business on 3 June 2016. The ex-dividend date will be 
2 June 2016.
The dividend paid in the year to 31 December 2015 and disclosed 
in the Consolidated Income Statement is 6.25 pence (2014: 5.50 
pence) per share, being the previous year’s final dividend of 4.00 
pence (2014: 3.50 pence) per share and the interim dividend of 
2.25 pence (2014: 2.00 pence) per share in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2015 and these were paid on 3 July 2015 
and 4 December 2015 respectively.
Share capital and authority to purchase shares
The Company’s share capital at 1 January 2016 was 199,378,755 
Ordinary Shares of 25 pence. There has been no change between 
31 December 2015 and 11 March 2016. Details of the share capital 
are set out in Note 20 on page 108. 
The Ordinary Shares of the Company carry equal rights to dividends, 
voting and return of capital on the winding up of the Company, 
as set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. There are no 
restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company and there 
are no restrictions on any voting rights or deadlines, other than those 
prescribed by law, nor is the Company aware of any arrangement 
between holders of its shares which may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or voting rights, nor any arrangement whereby 
a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive dividends (other than 
the EBT – see below).
The Marshalls plc Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”) holds shares 
for the purposes of satisfying future awards that may vest under the 
Company’s share-based incentive schemes. The EBT may purchase 
shares in the Company from time to time to satisfy awards granted 
to Directors and Senior Executives subject to the achievement of 
performance targets under the Company's incentive schemes. 
At 31 December 2015 the EBT held 2,715,747 Ordinary Shares in 
the Company (2014: 3,181,327 shares) in respect of future incentive 
awards under the Company’s employee share schemes. Details 
of outstanding awards are set out in Note 18 on pages 103 to 106. 
The EBT has waived its right to receive dividends on shares that it 
holds beneficially in respect of future awards. The Trustee of the EBT 
exercises any voting rights on such shares in accordance with the 
Directors’ recommendations.
UK-based employees of the Group with more than 6 months’ service 
may participate in the Marshalls plc Share Purchase Plan during any 
offer period. Employees purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company 
with their pre-tax salary. The shares are purchased in the market and 
then held in trust by Yorkshire Building Society. Employees receive 
dividends on these shares and may give voting instructions to 
the Trustee. 
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2015 shareholders gave 
authority to the Directors to purchase up to 29,523,367 shares, 
representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital in the Company, in the market during the period 
expiring at the next Annual General Meeting at a price to be 
determined within certain limits. No Ordinary Shares in the Company 
were purchased during the year or between 31 December 2015 
and 11 March 2016 under this authority, which will expire at the 
Annual General Meeting in May 2016. The Directors will seek to 
renew the authority at that meeting. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
65
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Contracts of significance and related parties
There were no contracts of significance between any member of the 
Group and (a) any undertaking in which a Director has a material interest, 
or (b) a controlling shareholder (other than between members of the 
Group). There have been no related party transactions between any 
member of the Group and a related party since the publication of 
the last Annual Report.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Group. None of these are considered 
to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the 
Group as a whole.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association give powers to the Board to 
appoint Directors. Newly appointed Directors are required to retire 
and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first 
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. 
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company, 
subject to the provisions of relevant laws and the Company’s 
Memorandum and Articles of Association. These include specific 
provisions and restrictions regarding the Company’s power to borrow 
money. Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares 
are included in the Articles of Association and such authorities are 
renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association may be amended by Special Resolution 
of the shareholders.
Directors’ indemnities are referenced on page 39 of the Corporate 
Governance section.
Directors’ interests
Details of Directors’ remuneration, interests in the share capital 
(or derivatives or other financial instruments relating to those 
shares) of the Company and of their share-based payment awards 
are contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 46 
to 60. No change in the interests of the Directors has been notified 
between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Listing Rule requirements
The applicable requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.4R in respect of 
long-term incentive schemes (pages 103 to 106) and contracts of 
significance (page 65) are included in this Annual Report.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has no controlling shareholder. As at 11 March 2016, 
the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR Rule 5, 
of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or more in its 
voting rights:
As at As at
11 March 31 December
 2016 2015
% %
Majedie Asset Management 8.91 8.98
Standard Life Investments 8.07 6.79
BlackRock 6.70 5.11
JP Morgan Asset Management 4.95 4.28
Old Mutual Global Investors 4.91 4.64
Royal London Asset Management 4.76 4.73
Unicorn Asset Management 3.79 3.82
Henderson Global Investors 3.68 3.68
Montanaro Investment Managers 3.67 3.67
M&G Investment Management 3.46 3.46
The Directors’ Report, comprising the Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees, has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
11 March 2016 Corporate Governance
66
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the members of Marshalls plc only
Opinion on Financial Statements of Marshalls plc
In our opinion:
 — the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
 — the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
("IFRSs") as adopted by the European Union;
 — the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and
 — the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, 
the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, 
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related Notes 1 
to 40. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment 
of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
Statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis 
of accounting contained within Note 1 to the Financial Statements 
and the Directors’ Statement on the longer-term viability of the 
Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 23. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 — the Directors’ Confirmation on page 23 that they have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 — the disclosures on pages 20 to 23 that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 — the Directors’ Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements 
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability 
to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of the Financial Statements; and
 — the Director’s Explanation on page 23 as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they consider that period to 
be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis 
of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent 
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not 
provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in 
those standards. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
67
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Carrying value of inventories
The Group is primarily involved in the manufacture and sale of landscape 
products and natural stone products, selling to both Public Sector and 
Commercial and Domestic end users. It records inventory at the lower of 
cost and net realisable value, carrying a large amount of inventories in order 
to meet customer needs on demand. The Group offers a wide range of 
non-perishable products that are manufactured and subsequently stored 
in large quantities at various locations, and therefore carries a high level of 
inventories at any given point. 
A risk therefore exists that inventories, particularly those which are aged, 
may need to be discounted before they can be sold. The risk of discounting, 
combined with potential costs to move the inventories to a location where 
demand exists, may result in the inventories being sold at below cost.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding:
 — the length of time required to sell inventories;
 — the level of discounts necessary to sell inventories 
(ie. provisioning levels); 
 — whether inventories will need to be discounted below 
their cost price; and
 — the appropriateness of standard costs and the level 
of provisioning applied.
The carrying value of the Group’s finished goods inventory as disclosed 
in Note 12 is noted as a critical accounting estimate in Note 26 to the 
Financial Statements. 
We have:
 — reviewed business processes surrounding the recording of 
inventory quantities and management's review for the valuation 
of the items;
 — tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness 
of controls around the key accounting cycles relating to 
purchasing, inventory quantities and inventory provisioning 
across the Group’s sites;
 — used analytical techniques to review sales of product lines by site 
to focus on areas of risk in the provisions for net realisable value; 
 — selected a sample of inventory items and agreed key inputs in the 
valuation such as materials costs and expected sales prices, rebates 
and shipping costs to supporting documentation;
 — challenged the key assumptions concerning overhead 
absorption by assessing the appropriateness of costs included 
in the calculation; 
 — tested the standard cost assessment and year-end adjustment to 
actual cost by performing walkthroughs of the costing exercise 
and verifying the actual costs of production for a representative 
sample of products; and
 — assessed the accuracy of prior year provisions for indications that 
current year provisions may be materially misstated.
Completeness of rebate expenses
The Group enters into a number of commercial agreements with its 
customers which have varying terms and as such a risk exists that 
rebate agreements with customers are not correctly accounted for, 
potentially resulting in an overstatement of revenue and profit. This 
becomes increasingly pertinent as the Group’s revenues increase, 
rebate expenses become larger, and new agreements are initiated.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding 
the level of provisions to apply for rebate agreements.
As described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, revenue 
recognised represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less 
returns, allowances and value added tax. This is further noted as a 
critical accounting estimate in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
We have:
 — reviewed business processes and tested the design 
and implementation of controls surrounding the rebate 
expense cycles;
 — reviewed a sample of rebate agreements for key customers to assess 
whether provisions are calculated in line with contractual terms;
 — performed procedures to assess the accuracy of the brought 
forward rebate accrual including verification to subsequent 
cash payments;
 — assessed post year-end transactions to consider the 
completeness of the closing accrual; and
 — selected a sample of sales transactions to agree to customer 
order and to receipt of cash to gain assurance over the completeness 
and existence of revenue and rebate expenses.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed 
on pages 61 to 63.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Corporate Governance
68
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Marshalls plc only
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.75 million which 
is below 5 per cent of pre-tax profit, and below 1 per cent of equity. 
In 2014 the previous auditor set materiality at £1.3 million on the 
basis of 5.8 per cent of pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of £35,000 (in 2014 
the previous auditor reported on all amounts in excess of £65,000) 
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of 
the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. 
The Group and Parent Company audits are performed at the Group’s 
head office in Elland, West Yorkshire. All subsidiaries of the Group 
except Marshalls NV, based in Belgium, are based in the UK at Elland. 
The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components, 
which accounted for 96 per cent of Group revenue, 98 per cent 
of Group net assets and 98 per cent of Group profit before tax. 
Marshalls NV accounted for the remaining revenue, net assets and 
profit before tax and was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the 
supervision of the Group audit team to a component materiality 
of £500,000.
In our first year as the Group’s statutory Auditor, the Group audit team 
followed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so 
that senior members of the audit team have visited all of the Group’s 
key locations, including the Group’s Belgian site and a number of UK 
manufacturing locations. In addition, the senior statutory Auditor 
has visited a number of manufacturing sites in the UK and been 
involved in the planning and reporting procedures for all of the Group’s 
components. In future years we will continue to include the component 
audit partner and team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, 
and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 — the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 — the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and 
accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 — the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
69
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the Audited 
Financial Statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial 
Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). 
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality 
control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality 
controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 
review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an Auditor’s Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial 
Statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Robertson (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Manchester, UK 
11 March 2016 Financial Statements
70
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 2014
Notes £'000 £'000
Revenue 2 386,204 358,516
Net operating costs 3 (348,752) (333,211)
Operating profit 2 37,452 25,305
Financial expenses 5 (2,181) (2,889)
Financial income 5 7 5
Profit before tax 2 35,278 22,421
Income tax expense 6 (7,387) (4,198)
Profit for the financial year 27,891 18,223
Profit for the year
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Parent 28,149 19,857
Non-controlling interests (258) (1,634)
27,891 18,223
Earnings per share
Basic 7 14.32p 10.13p
Diluted 7 14.10p 9.89p
Dividend
Pence per share 8 6.25p 5.50p
Dividends declared 8 12,291 10,791
All results relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
71
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2014
2015 £’000
£’000 (Restated)
Profit for the financial year 27,891 18,223
Other comprehensive (expense) / income
Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (3,866) 3,244
Deferred tax arising 773 (649)
Total items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement (3,093) 2,595
Items that are or may in the future be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (940) (3,984)
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the Income Statement 1,984 1,076
Deferred tax arising (209) 582
Impact of the change in rate of deferred taxation (375) –
Exchange difference on retranslation of foreign currency net investment (980) (944)
Exchange movements associated with borrowings 847 869
Foreign currency translation differences – non-controlling interests (78) (186)
Total items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement 249 (2,587)
Other comprehensive (expense) / income for the year, net of income tax (2,844) 8
Total comprehensive income for the year 25,047 18,231
Attributable to:
 Equity shareholders of the Parent 25,383 20,051
 Non-controlling interests (336) (1,820)
25,047 18,231
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements
72
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 147,489 149,745
Intangible assets 10 40,168 40,581
Investment in associates 11 – 782
Trade and other receivables 13 415 –
Employee benefits 18 3,427 3,449
Deferred taxation assets 19 1,316 1,394
192,815 195,951
Current assets
Inventories 12 65,254 67,323
Trade and other receivables 13 44,542 44,950
Cash and cash equivalents 14 24,990 20,320
Assets classified as held for sale 9 2,231 –
137,017 132,593
Total assets 329,832 328,544
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 79,607 73,416
Corporation tax 5,281 4,276
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 34 85
Derivative financial instruments 17 2,149 3,192
87,071 80,969
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 36,418 50,715
Deferred taxation liabilities 19 13,625 14,966
50,043 65,681
Total liabilities 137,114 146,650
Net assets 192,718 181,894
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent
Called-up share capital 20 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 22,695 22,695
Own shares (5,529) (6,689)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 75,394
Consolidation reserve (213,067) (213,067)
Hedging reserve (1,653) (2,488)
Retained earnings 263,894 254,729
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent 191,579 180,419
Non-controlling interests 21 1,139 1,475
Total equity 192,718 181,894
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 11 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board:
Martyn Coffey   Jack Clarke
Chief Executive   Finance Director
The Notes on pages 76 to 110 form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
73
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the financial year 27,891 18,223
Income tax expense 7,387 4,198
Profit before tax 35,278 22,421
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 13,054 11,982
Amortisation 1,322 1,231
Associates 582 (118)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (149) (360)
Equity settled share-based payments 2,202 2,496
Financial income and expenses (net) 2,174 2,884
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and pension scheme contributions 54,463 40,536
Increase in trade and other receivables (443) (1,050)
Decrease in inventories 1,706 3,102
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 7,262 (1,765)
Operational restructuring costs paid (175) (235)
Pension scheme contributions (4,350) (4,600)
Cash generated from operations 58,463 35,988
Financial expenses paid (1,775) (2,840)
Income tax paid (7,003) (4,031)
Net cash flow from operating activities 49,685 29,117
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 933 3,077
Financial income received 7 5
Net proceeds from disposal of associates 200 –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (14,016) (11,269)
Acquisition of intangible assets (909) (741)
Net cash flow from investing activities (13,785) (8,928)
Cash flows from financing activities
Payments to acquire own shares (4,582) (4,266)
Net (decrease) / increase in other debt and finance leases (166) 269
Decrease in borrowings (14,182) (2,690)
Equity dividends paid (12,291) (10,791)
Net cash flow from financing activities (31,221) (17,478)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,679 2,711
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 20,320 17,652
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (9) (43)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 24,990 20,320
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements
74
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current year
At 1 January 2015 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 (213,067) (2,488) 254,729 180,419 1,475 181,894
Total comprehensive  
income / (expense) for the year
Profit / (loss) for the financial year 
attributable to equity shareholders  
of the Parent – – – – – – 28,149 28,149 (258) 27,891
Other comprehensive  
income / (expense)
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – – (133) (133) (78) (211)
Effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – – (940) – (940) – (940)
Net change in fair value of cash 
flow hedges transferred to the 
Income Statement – – – – – 1,984 – 1,984 – 1,984
Deferred tax arising – – – – – (209) – (209) – (209)
Defined benefit plan actuarial losses – – – – – – (3,866) (3,866) – (3,866)
Impact of change in rate of  
deferred tax – – – – – – (375) (375) – (375)
Deferred tax arising – – – – – – 773 773 – 773
Total other comprehensive 
income / (expense) – – – – – 835 (3,601) (2,766) (78) (2,844)
Total comprehensive income / 
(expense) for the year – – – – – 835 24,548 25,383 (336) 25,047
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Share-based payments – – – – – – 2,202 2,202 – 2,202
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – (5) (5) – (5)
Corporation tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 445 445 – 445
Impact of the change in rate  
of deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 8 8 – 8
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – – (12,291) (12,291) – (12,291)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,582) – – – – (4,582) – (4,582)
Disposal of own shares – – 5,742 – – – (5,742) – – –
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners – – 1,160 – – – (15,383) (14,223) – (14,223)
Total transactions with owners 
of the Company – – 1,160 – – 835 9,165 11,160 (336) 10,824
At 31 December 2015 49,845 22,695 (5,529) 75,394 (213,067) (1,653) 263,894 191,579 1,139 192,718 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
75
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Prior year
At 1 January 2014 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 (213,067) (162) 246,944 172,137 3,295 175,432
Total comprehensive  
income / (expense) for the year
Profit / (loss) for the financial 
year attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Parent – – – – – – 19,857 19,857 (1,634) 18,223
Other comprehensive  
income / (expense)
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – – (75) (75) (186) (261)
Effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – – (3,984) – (3,984) – (3,984)
Net change in fair value of cash 
flow hedges transferred to the 
Income Statement – – – – – 1,076 – 1,076 – 1,076
Deferred tax arising – – – – – 582 – 582 – 582
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains – – – – – – 3,244 3,244 – 3,244
Deferred tax arising – – – – – – (649) (649) – (649)
Total other comprehensive 
income / (expense) – – – – – (2,326) 2,520 194 (186) 8
Total comprehensive 
income / (expense) for the year – – – – – (2,326) 22,377 20,051 (1,820) 18,231
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Share-based payments – – – – – – 2,496 2,496 – 2,496
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 460 460 – 460
Corporation tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 332 332 – 332
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – – (10,791) (10,791) – (10,791)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,266) – – – – (4,266) – (4,266)
Disposal of own shares – – 7,089 – – – (7,089) – – –
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners – – 2,823 – – – (14,592) (11,769) – (11,769)
Total transactions with owners 
of the Company – – 2,823 – – (2,326) 7,785 8,282 (1,820) 6,462
At 31 December 2014 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 (213,067) (2,488) 254,729 180,419 1,475 181,894
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity continued
for the year ended 31 December 2015 (restated) Financial Statements
76
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies
Significant accounting policies
Marshalls plc (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 11 March 2016.
The following paragraphs summarise the significant accounting policies of the Group, which have been applied consistently in dealing with 
items which are considered material in relation to the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU and therefore the Group 
Financial Statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations. The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations 
issued by the IASB and International Financial Reporting Committee relevant to its operations and which are effective in respect of these 
Financial Statements.
In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) 
that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2015 (except as noted below). Their adoption has not 
had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 — Amendments to IAS 19 “Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions” . The amendments are effective in the EU for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 February 2015. However, earlier application is permitted so that companies applying IFRSs, as adopted in the EU, 
are able to adopt the amendments in accordance with the IASB effective date of 1 July 2014. The amendments to IAS 19 clarify the 
requirements that relate to how contributions from employees, or third parties, that are linked to service should be attributed to periods 
of service. In addition, they permit a practical expedient if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of 
service. These amendments have been applied retrospectively. The application of these amendments has had no material impact on the 
disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
 — Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle. The amendments are effective in the EU for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 February 2015. However, earlier application is permitted so that companies applying IFRSs, as adopted in the EU, are able to adopt the 
amendments in accordance with the IASB effective date of 1 July 2014. The majority of the amendments are in the nature of clarifications 
rather than substantive changes to existing requirements. However, the amendments to IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” - (aggregation of 
operating segments) and IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures” - (key management personnel) represent changes to existing requirements. 
The amendments to IFRS 8 require an entity to disclose the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria to 
operating segments, including a description of the operating segments aggregated and the economic indicators assessed in determining 
whether the operating segments have similar economic characteristics. The amendments to IAS 24 clarify that a management entity 
providing key management personnel services to a reporting entity is a related party of the reporting entity. Consequently, the reporting 
entity must disclose as related party transactions the amounts incurred for the service paid or payable to the management entity for the 
provision of key management. The application of the amendments has had no material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts 
recognised in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following standards and amendments to standards are in issue but not yet effective, and have not yet been adopted by the EU, and 
therefore have not been applied in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 — IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”;
 — IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”;
 — IFRS 11 (amendments) “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations”;
 — IAS 1 (amendments) “Disclosure Initiative”;
 — IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amendments) “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation”;
 — IAS 16 and IAS 41 (amendments) “Agriculture: Bearer Plants”;
 — IAS 27 (amendments) “Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements”;
 — IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendments) “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture”;
 — IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 (amendments) “Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption”;
 — Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012 – 2014 Cycle – Amendments to: IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”, 
IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures, ” IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” and IAS 34 “Interim Financial Reporting”;
 — IFRS 14 “Regulatory Deferral Accounts”;
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
77
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
 — IFRS 16 “Leases”; 
 — IAS 12 (amendments) “Income Taxes”; and
 — IFRIC 21 “Levies”.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the 
Group in future periods, except that IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and leases 
respectively and IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures. Beyond the information above, it is not 
practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed. 
(a) Statement of compliance
The Group Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“adopted IFRSs”). The Parent Company has elected to prepare its Financial Statements 
in accordance with FRS 101 and these are presented on pages 111 to 118.
(b) Basis of preparation 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also set out 
in the Strategic Report. In addition, Note 17 includes the Group’s policies and procedures for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Group’s funding position are set out in Note 17 and are subject to normal covenant arrangements. The Group’s on-demand 
overdraft facility is reviewed on an annual basis and the current arrangements were renewed and signed on 10 July 2015. In the opinion of the 
Directors there are sufficient unutilised facilities held which mature after 12 months. The Group’s performance is dependent on economic and 
market conditions, the outlook for which is difficult to predict. Based on current expectations, the Group’s cash forecasts continue to meet 
half-year and year-end bank covenants and there is adequate headroom which is not dependent on facility renewals. The Directors believe 
that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their 
fair value: derivative financial instruments and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements 
and are also set out on the Company’s website (www.marshalls.co.uk).
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. These are set out in 
Note 26 on page 110. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and 
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 26.
The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity have been restated in respect of 
the year ended 31 December 2014 (£792,000 reduction to other comprehensive income). The restatement was in respect of deferred taxation 
and corporation tax on share-based payments which were previously presented within other comprehensive income. The Statements have 
also been restated to show the effects of the net investment hedging on a gross basis in both periods. There is no impact on retained profits or 
net assets. Financial Statements
78
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control is achieved when the Company:
 — has power over the investee;
 — is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
 — has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the 
3 elements of control listed above. When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it considers that it has power 
over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. 
The Company considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are 
sufficient to give it power, including:
 — the size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
 — potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
 — rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
 — any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control 
of the subsidiary. Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income 
Statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary. 
(ii) Associates (equity accounted investees)
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity. Associates are 
accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are recognised initially at cost. The Group’s investment includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s share 
of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity accounted investees, after adjustment to align the accounting policies with 
those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s 
share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) 
is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made 
payments on behalf of the investee.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(iv) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Those interests of non-controlling 
shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets are initially measured at the 
non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of 
non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at the initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests' share of subsequent 
changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests 
having a deficit balance.
(d) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
79
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(e) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, fuel pricing and interest rate risks arising from 
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement when incurred. The gain 
or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. However, where derivatives qualify for 
hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy (f )). 
(f) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly 
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated 
cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset. For cash 
flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the 
income or expense. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship, but the 
hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, it no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting. The cumulative gain or loss at that 
point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no 
longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated 
Income Statement and cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
(ii) Economic hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or 
liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting 
policy (m)). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of directly 
attributable production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to 
adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant 
and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Property, plant and 
equipment acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see overleaf ) and impairment losses (see accounting policy (m)).
(iii) Subsequent costs
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that 
cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred. Financial Statements
80
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(g) Property, plant and equipment continued
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of 
property, plant and equipment. Depreciation on quarries is based on estimated rates of extraction. This is based on a comparison between the 
volume of relevant material extracted in any given period and the volume of relevant material available for extraction. Depreciation on leased 
assets is charged over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life. Freehold land is not depreciated. The rates are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings – 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent per annum
Short leasehold property  – over the period of the lease
Fixed plant and equipment  – 3.3 per cent to 25 per cent per annum
Mobile plant and vehicles  – 14 per cent to 30 per cent per annum
Quarries    – based on rates of extraction
The residual values, useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reassessed annually. Assets under construction are not depreciated 
until they are ready for use.
Site preparation costs associated with the development of new stone reserves are capitalised. These costs would include:
 — costs of clearing the site (including internal and outsourced labour in relation to site workers);
 — professional fees (including fees relating to obtaining planning consent);
 — purchase, installation and assembly of any necessary extraction equipment; and
 — costs of testing whether the extraction process is functioning properly (net of any sales of test products).
Depreciation commences when commercial extraction commences and is based on the rate of extraction.
In accordance with IAS 37, provision is made for quarry restoration where a legal or constructive obligation exists, it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will occur and the financial cost of restoration work can be reliably measured. The lives of quarries are almost always long 
and it is difficult to estimate the length with any precision. The majority of quarry restoration work is undertaken while extracting minerals from 
new areas (backfilling) and therefore work can be completed without additional cost. As a result of the particular characteristics of the Group’s 
quarries, the IAS 37 criteria have not been met to date based on the assets so far acquired and, therefore, no provisions have been recognised. 
(h) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2004, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 — the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
 — the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
 — the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
 — the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at their fair value or at their proportionate 
interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition 
and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities acquired. The classification and accounting treatment of business 
combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2015 were not adjusted in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2015.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
81
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(h) Intangible assets continued
(i) Goodwill continued
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded 
under the Group’s previous accounting framework. The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior 
to 1 January 2004 were not adjusted in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is subsequently stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment (see accounting policy (m)). In respect of equity-accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in 
the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
In respect of acquisitions where there is a contingent consideration element, an accrual is created for the estimated amount payable if it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and this can be measured reliably.
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, 
is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process meets the recognition criteria for development expenditure as set 
out in IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”. The expenditure capitalised includes all directly attributable costs, from the date which the intangible asset 
meets the recognition criteria, necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised 
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy (m)).
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses 
(see accounting policy (m)). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the 
specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
(v) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets 
unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are 
amortised from the date they are available for use. The rates applied are as follows:
Customer and supplier relationships – 5 to 20 years
Patents, trademarks and know-how – 2 to 20 years
Development costs   – 10 to 20 years
Software    – 5 to 10 years
(i) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount (discounted if material) less impairment losses (see accounting policy (m)).
(j) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less the estimated costs to completion and of selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing 
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share 
of overheads based on normal operating capacity, which were incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.  Financial Statements
82
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(l) Assets classified as held for sale
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Assets are classified as held 
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as 
met only when the sale is highly probable, expected to be completed within 1 year from the date of classification, and the asset is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition.
(m) Impairment 
(i) Impairment review
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy j) and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy w), 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is 
estimated at each balance sheet date. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash generating unit is the group 
of assets identified on acquisition that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of assets or cash generating units is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairments 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(n) Share capital
(i) Share capital
Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Company’s 
option. Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity. Non-equity share capital is classified as 
a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
thereon are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as a financial expense.
(ii) Dividends 
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis. Equity dividends are recognised as 
a liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company).
(o) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(p) Pension schemes
(i) Defined benefit schemes 
The net obligation in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of 
any scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated corporate bonds that have maturity 
dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected-unit credit method.
If the calculation results in a surplus, the resulting asset is measured at the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of 
refunds from the plan, or reductions in future contributions to the plan. The present value of these economic benefits is discounted by 
reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
83
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(p) Pension schemes continued
(i) Defined benefit schemes continued
When the benefits of the scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an 
expense in the Income Statement in the period of the scheme amendment.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of a plan are recognised immediately within the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(ii) Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
(q) Share-based payment transactions
The Group enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees. In particular, annual awards are made to 
employees under the Company’s Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) and there are also outstanding awards from previous years under the 
2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”).
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at 
grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. Where appropriate, the 
fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based 
on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting. A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on 
the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
(r) Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases 
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(s) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, it can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect 
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(t) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount (discounted if material).
(u) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement upon the despatch of goods, when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less 
returns, allowances, rebates and value added tax.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods or 
continuing management involvement with the goods.
(v) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the lease.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is 
allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Financial Statements
84
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(v) Expenses continued
(iii) Financial expenses
Net financial expenses comprise interest on obligations under the defined benefit pension scheme, the expected return on scheme assets 
under the defined benefit pension scheme, interest payable on borrowings (including finance leases) calculated using the effective interest 
rate method, dividends on non-equity shares, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses, 
and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (see accounting policy (f )).
(w) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
(x) Segment reporting
IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of discrete financial information about components of the 
Group that are regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) to allocate resources to the segments and to assess 
their performance. As far as Marshalls is concerned the CODM is regarded as being the Executive Directors. The Directors have concluded that the 
Group’s Landscape Products business is a single reportable segment, which includes the UK operations of the Marshalls Landscape Products hard 
landscaping business, servicing both the UK Domestic and the Public Sector and Commercial end markets. Financial information for Landscape 
Products is now reported to the Group’s CODM for the assessment of segment performance and to facilitate resource allocation.
2 Segmental analysis
Segment revenues and results 
2015 2014
Landscape Landscape
Products Other Total Products Other Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total revenue 299,650 90,915 390,565 280,508* 82,933* 363,441
Inter-segment revenue (123) (4,238) (4,361) (194) (4,731) (4,925)
External revenue 299,527 86,677 386,204 280,314* 78,202* 358,516
Segment operating profit 41,816 1,763 43,579 36,066 (4,549)** 31,517
Unallocated administration costs (5,545) (6,330)
Associates (582) 118
Operating profit 37,452 25,305
Finance charges (net) (2,174) (2,884)
Profit before tax 35,278 22,421
Taxation (7,387) (4,198)
Profit after tax 27,891 18,223
* The comparative revenue figures have been restated to ensure consistent classification with the analysis reported for the year ended 31 December 2015.
** After charging £1,995,000 in respect of restructuring costs in the Belgian business.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
85
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2 Segmental analysis continued
Segment revenues and results continued
The Group has 2 customers who each contributed more than 10 per cent of total revenue in the current and prior year.
The Landscape Products reportable segment operates a national manufacturing plan that is structured around a series of production units 
throughout the UK, in conjunction with a single logistics and distribution operation. A national planning process supports sales to both of 
the key end markets, namely the UK Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets and the operating assets produce and deliver 
a range of broadly similar products that are sold into each of these end markets. Within the Landscape Products operating segment the focus 
is on the one integrated production, logistics and distribution network supporting both end markets.
Included in “Other” are the Group’s Street Furniture, Mineral Products, Stone Cladding and International operations, which do not currently 
meet the IFRS 8 reporting requirements.
The accounting policies of the Landscape Products operating segment are the same as the Group’s accounting policies. Segment profit 
represents the profit earned without allocation of the share of profit of associates and certain central administration costs that are not capable 
of allocation. Centrally administered overhead costs that relate directly to the reportable segment are included within the segment’s results.
Segment assets 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Fixed assets and inventory:
Landscape Products 156,112 156,509
Other 56,631 60,559
Total segment fixed assets and inventory 212,743 217,068
Unallocated assets 117,089 111,476
Consolidated total assets 329,832 328,544
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Group’s CODM monitors the tangible 
fixed assets and inventory. Assets used jointly by reportable segments are not allocated to individual reportable segments.
Other segment information
Depreciation and amortisation Fixed asset additions
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Landscape Products 10,465 9,919 11,678 7,994
Other 3,911 3,294 3,816 4,016
14,376 13,213 15,494 12,010
Geographical destination of revenue
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
United Kingdom 367,248 338,483*
Rest of the World 18,956 20,033*
386,204 358,516
* The comparative revenue figures have been restated to ensure consistent classification with the analysis reported for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Group’s revenue is subject to seasonal fluctuations resulting from demand from customers. In particular, demand is higher in the summer 
months. The Group manages the seasonal impact through the use of a seasonal working capital facility. Financial Statements
86
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
3 Net operating costs
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 141,471 137,250
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (1,801) (3,484)
Personnel costs 96,716 93,439
Depreciation – owned 13,054 11,907
– leased – 75
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,322 1,231
Own work capitalised (1,810) (1,473)
Other operating costs 100,707 94,910
Restructuring costs in Marshalls NV – 1,995
Operating costs 349,659 335,850
Other operating income (1,340) (2,161)
Net gain on asset and property disposals (149) (360)
Associates 582 (118)
Net operating costs 348,752 333,211
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs include:
Auditor’s remuneration (see below) 160 167
Leasing costs 9,203 8,081
Hire of plant and machinery 4,881 4,640
Research and development costs 3,134 2,684
In respect of the year under review, Deloitte LLP (2014: KPMG LLP) carried out work in relation to:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Audit of Marshalls plc 20 20
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 120 103
Half-yearly review of Marshalls plc 20 40
Taxation compliance services – 4
160 167
4 Personnel costs
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Personnel costs (including amounts charged in the year in relation to Directors):
Wages and salaries 79,691 76,645
Social security costs 9,260 8,960
Share-based payments 2,490 3,062
Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 5,275 4,772
Included within net operating costs (Note 3) 96,716 93,439
Personnel costs included in operational restructuring costs – 507
Total personnel costs 96,716 93,946
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
87
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4 Personnel costs continued
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Remuneration of Directors:
Salary 649 859
Other benefits 34 46
MIP Element A bonus 734 877
MIP Element B bonus 325 333
Amounts receivable under the LTIP 816 2,729
Salary supplement in lieu of pension 129 205
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and fixed allowances 344 300
3,031 5,349
The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable under the MIP and the LTIP of the highest paid Director was £2,064,000 (2014: £1,924,000), 
including a salary supplement in lieu of pension of £82,000 (2014: £54,000).
There are no Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of qualifying services. As set out in the Remuneration Report 
on page 49, the Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension equal to their contractual entitlement of 20 per cent 
of basic salary.
Further details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans and Directors’ pension entitlements are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2015 2014
Number Number
Continuing operations 2,237 2,132
5 Financial expenses and income
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
(a) Financial expenses
Net interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme 406 48
Interest expense on bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 1,767 2,835
Finance lease interest expense 8 6
2,181 2,889
(b) Financial income
Interest receivable and similar income 7 5
Net interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme is disclosed net of Company recharges.
6 Income tax expense
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current tax expense
Current year 8,164 5,670
Adjustments for prior years 289 (1,834)
8,453 3,836
Deferred taxation expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
Current year (684) (319)
Adjustments for prior years (382) 681
Total tax expense 7,387 4,198 Financial Statements
88
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6 Income tax expense continued
2015 2014
% £’000 % £’000
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax 100.0 35,278 100.0 22,421
Tax using domestic corporation tax rate 20.2 7,144 21.5 4,821
Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation 2.0 710 3.8 845
Short-term timing differences (0.2) (81) (1.0) (221)
Adjustment to tax charge in prior year 0.8 289 (8.2) (1,834)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.1 391 1.0 225
Corporation tax charge for the year 23.9 8,453 17.1 3,836
Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation (1.0) (355) (4.2) (953)
Short-term timing differences (0.2) (79) (1.0) (227)
Pension scheme movements 2.1 746 4.1 930
Other items (0.3) (100) (0.3) (69)
Adjustment to tax charge in prior year (1.1) (382) 3.0 681
Impact of the change in the rate of corporation tax on deferred taxation (2.5) (896) – –
Total tax charge for the year 20.9 7,387 18.7 4,198
The net amount of deferred taxation credited / (debited) to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year was £189,000 
credit (2014: £67,000 debit).
The majority of the Group’s profits are earned in the UK with the standard rate of corporation tax being 20.25 per cent for the year to 31 December 2015.
Capital allowances are tax reliefs provided in law for the expenditure the Group makes on fixed assets. The rates are determined by Parliament 
annually, and spread the tax relief due over a number of years. This contrasts with the accounting treatment for such spending, where the 
expenditure on fixed assets is treated as an investment with the cost then being spread over the anticipated useful life of the asset, and / or 
impaired if the value of such assets is considered to have reduced materially.
The different accounting treatment of fixed assets for tax and accounting purposes is one reason why the taxable income of the Group is not 
the same as its accounting profit. During the year to 31 December 2015 the depreciation charge for the year exceeded the capital allowances 
due to the Group.
Short-term timing differences arise on items such as depreciation in stock and share-based payments because the treatment of such items is 
different for tax and accounting purposes. These differences usually reverse in the years following those in which they arise, as is reflected in 
the deferred tax charge in the Financial Statements.
Adjustments to tax charges arising in earlier years arise because the tax charge to be included in a set of accounts has to be estimated before 
those financial statements are finalised. Such charges therefore include some estimates that are checked and refined before the Group’s 
corporation tax returns for the year are submitted to HM Revenue & Customs, which may reflect a different liability as a result.
Some expenses incurred may be entirely appropriate charges for inclusion in the Financial Statements but are not allowed as a deduction 
against taxable income when calculating the Group’s tax liability for the same accounting period. Examples of such disallowable expenditure 
include business entertainment costs and some legal expenses.
As can be seen from the tax reconciliation, the process of adjustment that can give rise to current year adjustments to tax charges arising in 
previous periods can also give rise to revisions in prior year deferred tax estimates. This is why the current year adjustments to the current year 
charge for capital allowances and short-term timing differences are not exactly replicated in the deferred taxation charge for the year.
The Group’s overseas operations comprise a manufacturing operation in Belgium and sales and administration offices in the USA, China and Dubai. 
The sales of these units, in total, were less than 5 per cent of the Group’s turnover in the year to 31 December 2015. In total, the trading profits 
were not material and no tax was due.
7 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share of 14.32 pence (2014: 10.13 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 
for the financial year, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £28,149,000 (2014: £19,857,000) by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period of 196,574,435 (2014: 196,116,404).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
89
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7 Earnings per share continued
Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Profit for the financial year 27,891 18,223
Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 258 1,634
Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 28,149 19,857
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
2015 2014
Number Number
Number of issued Ordinary Shares (at beginning of the year) 199,378,755 199,378,755
Effect of shares transferred into employee benefit trust (2,804,320) (3,262,351)
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares at end of the year 196,574,435 196,116,404
Diluted earnings per share of 14.10 pence (2014: 9.89 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year, after adjusting 
for non-controlling interests, of £28,149,000 (2014: £19,857,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 
196,574,435 (2014: 196,116,404) plus potentially dilutive shares of 3,092,619 (2014: 4,646,375), which totals 199,667,054 (2014: 200,762,799).
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (diluted)
2015 2014
Number Number
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 196,574,435 196,116,404
Potentially dilutive shares 3,092,619 4,646,375
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (diluted) 199,667,054 200,762,779
8 Dividends
After the balance sheet date a final dividend of 4.75 pence (2014: 4.00 pence) per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors. 
In addition a supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors. These dividends have not 
been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. The total dividends proposed in respect of the year are as follows:
Pence per 2015 2014
qualifying share £’000 £’000
2015 supplementary 2.00 3,988
2015 final 4.75 9,470
2015 interim 2.25 4,425 
9.00 17,883 
2014 final 4.00 7,975
2014 interim 2.00 3,924
6.00 11,899
The following dividends were approved by the shareholders and recognised in the year:
Pence per 2015 2014
qualifying share £’000 £’000
2015 interim 2.25 4,425 
2014 final 4.00 7,866 
6.25 12,291 
2014 interim 2.00 3,924
2013 final 3.50 6,867
5.50 10,791 Financial Statements
90
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8 Dividends continued
The Board recommends a 2015 final dividend of 4.75 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share (amounting to £9,470,000), alongside 
a supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share (amounting to £3,988,000), to be paid on 8 July 2016 to shareholders 
registered at the close of business on 3 June 2016.
9 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant, machinery
buildings Quarries and vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 89,343 20,101 297,084 406,528
Exchange differences (428) – (236) (664)
Additions 894 1,072 9,303 11,269
Reclassification (237) 237 – –
Disposals (3,640) – (1,301) (4,941)
At 31 December 2014 85,932 21,410 304,850 412,192
At 1 January 2015 85,932 21,410 304,850 412,192
Exchange differences (449) – (300) (749)
Additions 1,343 1,541 11,701 14,585
Reclassified as held for sale (2,231) – – (2,231)
Disposals (203) – (2,817) (3,020)
At 31 December 2015 84,392 22,951 313,434 420,777
Land and
Plant, machinery
buildings Quarries and vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2014 35,009 5,786 211,012 251,807
Depreciation charge for the year 1,567 235 10,180 11,982
Exchange differences 1 – 44 45
Reclassification (635) 635 – –
Disposals (1,190) – (930) (2,120)
Impairments – – 733 733
At 31 December 2014 34,752 6,656 221,039 262,447
At 1 January 2015 34,752 6,656 221,039 262,447
Depreciation charge for the year 1,825 348 10,881 13,054
Exchange differences (3) – (158) (161)
Disposals (7) – (2,045) (2,052)
At 31 December 2015 36,567 7,004 229,717 273,288
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 54,334 14,315 86,072 154,721
At 31 December 2014 51,180 14,754 83,811 149,745
At 31 December 2015 47,825 15,947 83,717 147,489
Mineral reserves and associated land have been separately disclosed under the heading of “Quarries” .
During the year ended 31 December 2015, land and buildings with a book value of £2,231,000 have been reclassified as held for sale in 
accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations”.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
91
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9 Property, plant and equipment continued
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets includes £402,000 (2014: £568,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases. Group cost 
of land and buildings and plant and machinery includes £140,000 (2014: £168,000) and £8,011,000 (2014: £872,000) respectively for assets 
in the course of construction.
The impairment charge of £nil (2014: £733,000) relates to the restructuring of the Marshalls NV business (page 86) and writes down its value to 
its fair value less costs to sell.
Capital commitments
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but for which no provision has been made  
in the Consolidated Financial Statements 550 246
Depreciation charge
The depreciation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs (Note 3) 13,054 11,982
10 Intangible assets
Patents,
Customer Supplier trademarks Development
Goodwill relationships relationships and know-how costs Software Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2014 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,026 58,946
Additions – – – – – 741 741
At 31 December 2014 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,767 59,687
At 1 January 2015 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,767 59,687
Additions – – – – – 909 909
At 31 December 2015 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 11,676 60,596
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2014 8,912 2,210 608 1,302 77 4,766 17,875
Amortisation for the year – – 60 32 8 1,131 1,231
At 31 December 2014 8,912 2,210 668 1,334 85 5,897 19,106
At 1 January 2015 8,912 2,210 668 1,334 85 5,897 19,106
Amortisation for the year – – 60 32 8 1,222 1,322
At 31 December 2015 8,912 2,210 728 1,366 93 7,119 20,428
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2014 34,779 – 592 358 82 5,260 41,071
At 1 January 2015 34,779 – 532 326 74 4,870 40,581
At 31 December 2015 34,779 – 472 294 66 4,557 40,168
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units (“CGUs”) and 
these CGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is 
monitored for management purposes. The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that 
goodwill might be impaired. Financial Statements
92
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10 Intangible assets continued
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations and at both 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 
the full amount of goodwill in the Group Balance Sheet related to the Landscape Products CGU. These calculations use cash flow projections 
based on a combination of individual financial 5-year forecasts, containing assumptions for revenue growth and operational gearing, and 
appropriate long-term growth rates of 2.6 per cent. To prepare value-in-use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are discounted back to present 
value using an appropriate market-based discount rate. The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 10.0 per cent 
(2014: 9.2 per cent). The Directors have reviewed the recoverable amounts of the CGUs and do not consider that any reasonable change 
in the assumptions would give rise to the need for further impairment.
Included in software additions is £739,000 (2014: £718,000) of own work capitalised.
Amortisation charge
The amortisation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs (Note 3) 1,322 1,231
11 Investment in associates
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Carrying value
At 1 January 782 664
Share of results of associates 71 118
Impairment losses (653) –
Disposals (200) –
At 31 December – 782
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Investment at cost 2,250 2,250
Impairment losses (2,219) (1,566)
Cumulative share of results of associates 169 98
Disposals (200) –
Carrying value at 31 December – 782
On 31 December 2015 the Group disposed of its 25 per cent stake in Creeton Quarry Limited and Oathill Quarry Limited for proceeds of £200,000.
The Group’s share of results of associates in the year ended 31 December 2015 was £71,000 profit (2014: £118,000 profit) and, on the grounds 
of materiality, no additional disclosure has been made.
12 Inventories 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 12,998 13,266
Finished goods and goods for resale 52,256 54,057
65,254 67,323
Inventories stated at fair value less cost to sell at 31 December 2015 amounted to £6,745,000 (2014: £7,875,000). The write down of inventories 
made during the year amounted to £3,797,000 (2014: £1,236,000). There were no reversals of inventory write-downs made in previous years in 
either 2015 or 2014.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
93
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13 Trade and other receivables 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 38,101 34,641
Other receivables 2,174 2,885
Prepayments and accrued income 4,267 7,424
44,542 44,950
Ageing of trade receivables
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due 20,133 18,821
Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 13,304 10,353
Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 2,400 3,301
Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 3,097 2,554
Allowance for doubtful debts (833) (388)
38,101 34,641
Receivables totalling £415,000 (2014: £nil) were due after more than 1 year. All amounts disclosed above are considered recoverable.
The comparative amounts for trade receivables and other payables (Note 15) have been restated by £12,696,000 to reflect comparability with 
regard to gross-settled transactions. Notes 2 and 17 have also been updated accordingly.
14 Cash and cash equivalents 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Bank balances 24,964 20,289
Cash in hand 26 31
Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 24,990 20,320
15 Trade and other payables 
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current liabilities
Trade payables 37,356 31,186
Taxation and social security 8,775 8,401
Other payables 16,942 18,524
Accruals 16,534 15,305
79,607 73,416
All trade payables are due in 6 months or less. Financial Statements
94
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16 Loans
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Current liabilities
Finance lease liabilities 34 85
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 36,125 50,307
Finance lease liabilities 293 408
36,418 50,715
Bank loans
The bank loans are secured by intra-group guarantees with certain subsidiary undertakings.
Finance lease liabilities
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Less than 1 year 40 6 34 95 10 85
1 to 2 years 40 6 34 96 9 87
2 to 5 years 120 13 107 148 16 132
In more than 5 years 160 8 152 200 11 189
360 33 327 539 46 493
17 Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate, liquidity and currency risks. The Group 
primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings. The Group’s bank loans are non-equity funding instruments, 
further details of which are set out on page 97.
As directed by the Board, the Group does not engage in speculative activities using derivative financial instruments. Group cash reserves are 
held centrally to take advantage of the most rewarding short-term investment opportunities. Forward foreign currency contracts are used in 
the management of currency risk.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks and they have remained unchanged since 2014.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as its total equity and net debt balances. The Group manages its capital structure in light of 
current economic conditions and its strategic objectives to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The Group manages its medium-term bank debt to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is to arrange funding ahead of requirements 
and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed facilities. A key objective is to ensure compliance with the covenants set out in the Group’s 
bank facility agreements.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Primarily the 
shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group’s incentive schemes. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction 
basis by the Board.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regard to capital management during the years ended 31 December 2015 
and 31 December 2014.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
95
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks
The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations. Risk management is governed by the Group’s 
operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures, which are outlined in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 23. The key financial 
risks resulting from financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the 
longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. For instance, 
a weakening of Pound Sterling on the foreign currency market would increase the cost of certain raw materials, whereas a strengthening 
would have the opposite effect.
(a) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Board is responsible for ensuring 
that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due and does so by monitoring cash flow forecasts and budgets. 
Cash resources are largely and normally generated through operations and short-term flexibility is achieved by bank facilities. Bank debt is 
raised centrally and the Group aims to maintain a balance between flexibility and continuity of funding by having a range of maturities on its 
borrowings. Details of the Group borrowing facilities are provided on page 98.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short-term borrowing facilities and to assess individually and manage each 
long-term borrowing commitment accordingly. The Group borrows principally at floating rates of interest and, where appropriate, uses interest 
rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile, thereby managing the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Approximately 60 to 70 per cent of core debt is covered by interest rate swaps of varying maturities up until 2018, which reflects the maturity 
date of the related loans and medium-term requirements, in accordance with Group policy. The Group classifies its interest rate swaps as cash 
flow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of interest rate swaps is a £77,000 liability (2014: £76,000 liability) and is adjusted 
against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. 
The period that the swaps cover is matched against the debt maturity in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement. During the year 
£144,000 (2014: £536,000) has been recognised in other comprehensive income for the year with £109,000 (2014: £320,000) being reclassified 
from equity to the Income Statement. The interest rate swaps have been fully effective in the period.
With the addition of the fuel hedges (Note 17(e)) and forward contracts this gives a total of £940,000 (2014: £3,984,000) recognised in other 
comprehensive income for the year with £1,984,000 (2014: £1,076,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below. 
The sensitivity analysis has been undertaken before the effect of tax. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk has 
been determined based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period. 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial 
instruments with variable interest rates, financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale with fixed interest 
rates and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps. The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2014.
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Increase of 100 basis points (349) (244)
Decrease of 100 basis points 349 244 Financial Statements
96
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks continued
(c) Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed 
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and, where appropriate, credit insurance cover is obtained. This provides excellent 
intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred. An ageing 
of trade receivables is shown in Note 13 on page 93.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a credit rating equal to or better than the Group. 
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with whom the Group has a signed netting agreement as 
well as sound credit ratings. Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the 
carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
(d) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Sterling. The currencies 
giving rise to this risk are primarily Euros and US Dollars.
The Group’s policy is to cover all significant foreign currency commitments in respect of trade receivables and trade payables by using forward 
foreign currency contracts. All the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than 1 year after the balance sheet date. Where 
necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of forward exchange 
contracts is £19,000 liability (2014: £16,000 asset) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. At 31 December 2015 all 
outstanding forward exchange contracts had a maturity date within 6 months.
The foreign currency profile of monetary items was:
2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 2014
Sterling Euro US Dollars Total Sterling Euro US Dollars Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 22,925 1,164 901 24,990 18,807 1,254 259 20,320
Trade receivables 35,341 2,549 211 38,101 31,798 2,693 150 34,641
Secured bank loans (20,000) (16,125) – (36,125) (35,000) (15,307) – (50,307)
Trade payables (35,083) 2,743 (5,016) (37,356) (22,729) (7,901) (556) (31,186)
Forward exchange contracts (2,110) (23) (16) (2,149) (3,175) (17) – (3,192)
Balance sheet exposure 1,073 (9,692) (3,920) (12,539) (10,299) (19,278) (147) (29,724)
A 10 per cent strengthening and weakening of the following currencies against the Pound Sterling at 31 December 2015 would have 
increased / (decreased) equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the 
balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant. The analysis was performed 
on the same basis for 2014:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
10 per cent strengthening of £ against € 1,045 1,895
10 per cent weakening of £ against € (1,045) (1,895)
10 per cent strengthening of £ against $ 462 17
10 per cent weakening of £ against $ (462) (17)
(e) Pricing risks
Where appropriate the Group uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risks of significant forward price rises of fuel in relation to expected 
consumption. The current hedges held are in place until 31 December 2016. The Group classifies its fuel hedges as cash flow hedges and states 
them at fair value. The fair value of the fuel hedges is £2,053,000 liability (2014: £3,132,000 liability) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve 
on an ongoing basis. The period that the fuel hedges cover is matched against future expected purchases in order to fix the impact on the 
Income Statement. During the year £796,000 (2014: £3,448,000) has been recognised in other comprehensive income, with £1,875,000 
(2014: £756,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. The fuel hedges have been fully effective in the period.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
97
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks continued
(f) Other risks
Further information about the Group’s strategic and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 23.
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities
At 31 December 2015 there were £327,000 (2014: £493,000) of Group borrowings on a fixed rate. Interest rate swaps have been taken out with 
the intention to fix the interest on approximately 60 to 70 per cent of the Group’s core debt. The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities 
was:
Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable interest rate Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate % £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2015
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 14) Variable 2.27 (24,990) (24,990) – – – –
Bank loans Variable 2.27 36,125 – – 19,438 16,687 –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 10.0 327 – 34 34 107 152
11,462 (24,990) 34 19,472 16,794 152
Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable interest rate Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate % £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2014
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 14) Variable 2.41 (20,320) (20,320) – – – –
Bank loans Variable 2.41 50,307 – – 15,000 35,307 –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 8.80 493 26 59 87 132 189
30,480 (20,294) 59 15,087 35,439 189
At 31 December the undiscounted outstanding contractual payments (including interest) of financial liabilities were as follows:
Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable value Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2015
Bank loans Variable 36,125 37,020 204 203 19,746 16,867 –
Trade payables Variable 37,356 37,356 37,356 – – – –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 327 360 3 37 40 120 160
Financial liabilities Fixed 2,149 2,177 1,294 841 42 – –
75,957 76,913 38,857 1,081 19,828 16,987 160
Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable value Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2014
Bank loans Variable 50,307 53,485 504 501 15,901 36,579 –
Trade payables Variable 31,186 31,186 31,186 – – – –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 493 539 31 64 96 148 200
Financial liabilities Fixed 3,192 3,345 1,050 1,005 1,247 43 –
85,178 88,555 32,771 1,570 17,244 36,770 200 Financial Statements
98
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17 Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities
The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2015 amounted to £95.0 million (2014: £125.0 million) of which £58.9 million (2014: £74.7 million) 
remained unutilised. There are additional seasonal bank working capital facilities of £20.0 million available between 1 February and 31 August 
each year. The undrawn facilities available at 31 December 2015, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Committed:
Expiring in more than 2 years but not more than 5 years 43,875 34,693
Expiring in 1 year or less – 25,000
Uncommitted:
Expiring in 1 year or less 15,000 15,000
58,875 74,693
In July 2015, following the continued steady reduction in net debt, the Group undertook a full review of its bank facilities in order to align them 
with current strategy and to ensure headroom against available facilities remains at appropriate levels. On 10 July 2015, the Group decreased its 
committed facility levels by £30.0 million to £80.0 million, comprising new facilities with extended maturities. The committed facilities are all 
revolving credit facilities with interest charged at variable rate based on LIBOR. On 10 July 2015, the Group also renewed its short-term working 
capital facilities.
The maturity profile of borrowing facilities is structured to provide balanced, committed and phased medium-term debt. The current facilities 
are set out as follows:
Cumulative
Facility facility
£’000 £’000
Committed facilities:
Q3: 2020 20,000 20,000
Q3: 2019 20,000 40,000
Q3: 2018 20,000 60,000
Q3: 2017 20,000 80,000
On demand facilities:
Available all year 15,000 95,000
Seasonal (February to August inclusive) 20,000 115,000
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
A comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December 2015 is shown below:
2015 2014
Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 44,542 44,542 44,950 44,950
Cash and cash equivalents 24,990 24,990 20,320 20,320
Bank loans (36,125) (34,906) (50,307) (49,451)
Finance lease liabilities (327) (360) (493) (539)
Trade and other payables (79,607) (79,607) (73,416) (73,416)
Interest rate swaps, forward contracts and fuel hedges (2,149) (2,149) (3,192) (3,192)
Financial liabilities – net (48,676) (62,138)
Other assets – net 241,394 244,032 
192,718 181,894 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
99
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
17 Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities continued
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
(a) Derivatives
Derivative contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price at the relevant rate 
and deducting the current spot rate. For interest rate swaps, broker quotes are used.
(b) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on the expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance 
sheet date. 
(c) Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements. 
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
(d) Trade and other receivables / payables
For receivables / payables with a remaining life of less than 1 year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other receivables 
/ payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
(e) Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments, measured at fair value, into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation techniques used to 
determine fair value.
 — Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 — Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or 
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 — Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2015
Derivative financial liabilities – 2,149 – 2,149
31 December 2014
Derivative financial liabilities – 3,192 – 3,192
18 Employee benefits
The Company sponsors a pension scheme for employees in the UK which incorporates a funded defined benefit pension section and a 
defined contribution section (the "Scheme"). The Scheme is administered within a trust which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee 
Board is appointed by both the Company and the Scheme’s membership and acts in the interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, 
including the members and the Company. The Trustee is also responsible for the investment of the Scheme’s assets.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme, which closed to future service accrual on 30 June 2006, provides pension and lump sums to members 
on retirement and to dependants on death. Members of the defined benefit section became entitled to a deferred pension on closure. Members 
no longer pay contributions to the defined benefit section. Company contributions to the defined benefit section after this date are used to fund 
any deficit in the Scheme and the expenses associated with administering the Scheme, as determined by regular actuarial valuations.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme poses a number of risks to the Company, for example longevity risk, investment risk, interest rate 
risk, inflation risk and salary risk. The Trustee is aware of these risks and uses various techniques to control them. The Trustee has a number of 
internal control policies including a risk register which are in place to manage and monitor the various risks it faces. The Trustee’s investment 
strategy incorporates the use of liability driven investments (“LDIs”) to minimise sensitivity of the actuarial funding position to movements in 
interest rates and inflation rates. Financial Statements
100
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Employee benefits continued
The defined benefit section of the Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every 3 years. The next 
actuarial valuation is expected to be carried out with an effective date of 5 April 2018. These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance 
with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and so include deliberate margins for prudence. This contrasts with these accounting 
disclosures which are determined using best estimate assumptions.
A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2015. The results of that valuation have been projected to 31 December 2015 by a 
qualified independent actuary. The figures in the following disclosure were measured using the projected unit method.
During 2015 an exercise was carried out offering eligible defined benefit section members and current pensioners and dependants the option 
to commute small pensions for a cash lump sum representing the value of their benefits. This represents a settlement of benefits for members 
taking the option. The cash sump sums were determined by the Trustee on a best estimate basis after taking advice from the actuary.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of Scheme liabilities (298,812) (309,067) (262,900)
Fair value of Scheme assets 302,239 312,516 258,553
Net amount recognised at year end (before any adjustments for deferred tax) 3,427 3,449 (4,347)
The amounts recognised in comprehensive income were:
The current and past service costs, settlements and curtailments, together with the net interest expense for the year, are included in the 
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit surplus / (liability) 
are included in other comprehensive income.
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Net interest expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 506 48
Remeasurements of the net liability:
Return on scheme assets (excluding amount included in interest expense) 14,164 (46,766)
(Gain) / loss arising from changes in financial assumptions (5,063) 44,242
Gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions (7,412) –
Experience loss / (gain) 2,177 (720)
Charge / (credit) recorded in other comprehensive income 3,866 (3,244)
Total defined benefit charge / (credit) 4,372 (3,196)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
101
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Employee benefits continued
The principal actuarial assumptions used were:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Liability discount rate 3.70% 3.60%
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.10% 3.10%
Inflation assumption – CPI 2.10% 2.10%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Revaluation of deferred pensions 2.10% 2.10%
Increases for pensions in payment:
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa) 2.10% 2.10%
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa, minimum 3% pa) 3.10% 3.10%
CPI pension increases (maximum 3% pa) 2.00% 2.00%
Proportion of employees opting for early retirement 0% 0%
Proportion of employees commuting pension for cash 50.0% 50.0%
Mortality assumption – before retirement
Same as
post retirement
Same as
post retirement
Mortality assumption – after retirement (males) S2PMA tables S1PMA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth
CMI_2015 1.0% CMI_2012 1.0%
Mortality assumption – after retirement (females) S2PFA tables S1PFA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth
CMI_2015 1.0% CMI_2012 1.0%
Future expected lifetime of current pensioner at age 65:
Male aged 65 at year end 86.5 86.9
Female aged 65 at year end 88.5 89.2
Future expected lifetime of future pensioner at age 65:
Male aged 45 at year end 87.7 88.3
Female aged 45 at year end 89.8 90.7 Financial Statements
102
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Employee benefits continued
Changes in the present value of assets over the year
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Fair value of assets at start of the year 312,516 258,553
Interest income 11,120 11,833
Return on assets (excluding amount included in net interest expense) (14,164) 46,766
Assets distributed on settlement (1,508) –
Contributions from the employer 4,350 4,600
Benefits paid (9,332) (9,236)
Administration expenses (743) –
Fair value of assets at end of the year 302,239 312,516
Actual return on assets over the year (3,044) 58,599
Changes in the present value of liabilities over the year
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Liabilities at start of the year 309,067 262,900
Interest cost 10,930 11,881
Remeasurement (gains) / losses:
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (5,063) 44,242
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (7,412) –
Other experience gains 2,177 (720)
Liabilities extinguished on settlements (1,555) –
Benefits paid (9,332) (9,236)
Liabilities at end of the year 298,812 309,067
The split of the Scheme’s liabilities by category of membership is as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Deferred pensioners 154,905 161,195
Pensioners in payment 143,907 147,872
298,812 309,067
Average duration of the Scheme’s liabilities at the end of the year (in years) 18 18
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
103
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Employee benefits continued
The major categories of Scheme assets are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Return-seeking assets
UK equities 30,928 35,997
Overseas equities 14,863 14,534
Other equity type investments 39,827 39,729
Total return-seeking assets 85,618 90,260
Other
Insured pensioners 1,183 1,396
Cash 711 2,443
Liability-driven investments 214,727 218,417
Total matching assets 216,621 222,256
Total market value of assets 302,239 312,516
The return-seeking assets and LDI assets have quoted prices in active markets. The valuation of the insured pensions has been taken as the 
value of the corresponding liabilities assessed using the assumptions set out above.
The Scheme has no investments in the Company or in property occupied by the Company.
The Company expects to pay no contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme during the year ended 31 December 2016.
Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions
If the discount rate were 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the defined benefit section Scheme liabilities would decrease by approximately £4.9 million 
(increase by £5.1 million) if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
If the inflation assumption were 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the Scheme liabilities would increase by £1.7 million (decrease by £1.7 million). 
In this calculation all assumptions related to the inflation assumption have been appropriately adjusted, that is salary, the deferred pension 
and pension in payment increases. The other assumptions remain unchanged.
If life expectancies were to increase (decrease) by 1 year, the Scheme liabilities would increase by £10.5 million (decrease by £10.6 million) 
if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
Share-based payments
Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”)
The LTIP was replaced in 2014 by the Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") and accordingly no further share-based payment awards were made 
during the year ended 31 December 2015 under the LTIP . The LTIP awards made in respect of the 2013 and 2014 scheme years provide for the 
award of Performance Shares. Performance Shares may be awarded to participants without requiring a qualifying investment, and are subject 
to the achievement of a 3-year performance target. The awards lapse if the performance target is not met over the 3-year vesting period. 
Performance Share awards are dependent on an improvement in reported earnings per share and operating cash flow, each measured using 
IFRSs. The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion with regard to the effect of one-off items. Details of the performance criteria 
applicable to 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60. Financial Statements
104
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
18 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) continued
The Performance Shares take the form of options which are settled by physical delivery of shares. The exercise price is £nil in relation to any of 
these grants and there is no entitlement to dividends during the vesting period. There are no market conditions associated with these instruments.
Number of Date of Vesting
instruments grant period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 243,412 10 September 2013 3 years
222,124 1 April 2014 3 years
115,676 2 October 2014 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 683,147 17 April 2013 3 years
368,667 1 April 2014 3 years
14,120 29 April 2014 3 years
Weighted average Weighted average
share price at share price at
date of grant Number of date of grant Number of
(pence per share) options (pence per share) options
2015 2015 2014 2014
Outstanding at 1 January 137 3,770,513 116 5,570,167
Granted – – 182 1,149,818
Lapsed 137 (615,072) 113 (1,249,946)
Exercised 115 (1,508,295) 112 (1,699,526)
Outstanding at 31 December 141 1,647,146 137 3,770,513
None of the options were exercisable at 31 December 2015.
The fair value of services received in return for shares granted is measured by reference to the fair value of these awards at the date of grant. 
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-Scholes valuation model. 
2 October 29 April 1 April 10 September 17 April
2014 grant 2014 grant 2014 grant 2013 grant 2013 grant
Fair value at grant date (pence per share) 181 160 166 60 106
Share price on date of grant (pence per share) 199 176 180 173 127
Expected volatility used in the modelling under the Black-Scholes  
valuation model 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%
Dividend yield 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
Risk-free interest rate (based on national Government bonds) 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
The Company’s share price at 31 December 2015 was 325 pence.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly 
available information.
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments are as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 710 1,551
Performance Incentive Plan (“PIP”)
The PIP was a 3-year incentive scheme introduced in 2011 which terminated in 2014. Deferred balances in the form of shares carried over from 
the final year of the PIP vested as share-based payment awards in March 2015 in accordance with the rules of the PIP . There are no outstanding 
awards under the PIP at 31 December 2015. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
105
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Performance Incentive Plan (“PIP”) continued
Equity settled awards under the PIP are settled by physical delivery of shares.
Number of Number of
Value options Value options
£’000 2015 £’000 2014
Outstanding at 1 January 2,158 922,281 1,588 901,101
Granted – – – –
Change in value of notional shares – – 570 21,180
Element released (2,158) (922,281) – –
Outstanding at 31 December – – 2,158 922,281
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs – 523
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”)
Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the MIP . Full details of the performance criteria 
and the basis of operation of the MIP are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares. The following equity settled awards have been granted:
Number of
instruments £’000 Date of grant Vesting period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 344,517 1,120 11 April 2014 4 years
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc – – 11 April 2014 4 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 475,423 1,545 11 April 2014 4 years
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 349,068 1,134 10 March 2015 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 58,224 189 10 March 2015 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 466,407 1,516 10 March 2015 3 years
1,693,639 5,504 
Analysis of closing balance (deferred into shares):
£’000 Shares
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 2,254 693,585
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 189 58,224
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 3,061 941,830
5,504 1,693,639
Number of Number of
Value options Value options
£’000 2015 £’000 2014
Outstanding at 1 January 3,344 1,429,056 – –
Granted 2,839 873,699 3,344 1,429,056
Change in value of notional shares 415 (141,494) – –
Lapsed (296) (126,410) – –
Element released (798) (341,212) – –
Outstanding at 31 December 5,504 1,693,639 3,344 1,429,056 Financial Statements
106
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
18 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) continued
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments were as follows:
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 2,858 2,471
Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
Employee Bonus Share Plan
A Bonus Share Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2015 under which a number of senior management employees were granted 
performance related bonuses with an element of this bonus being in the form of shares. The bonus performance criteria are the same as those 
applicable to the MIP awards and are in relation to the year ended 31 December 2015. The bonus shares take the form of nil-cost options to 
acquire shares at the end of a 3-year vesting period from the date of grant, and vesting is conditional on continued employment at the end of 
the vesting period. The first awards will be made to participants following publication of the Group's 2015 results. The total expenses 
recognised for the year arising from share-based payments were £54,000 (2014: £nil).
All-employee Sharesave (“SAYE”) scheme
On 5 October 2015 options were granted over 1,000,000 shares to employees who had subscribed to the SAYE scheme. The option price 
is 291 pence, a discount of 20 per cent to the market price on the date of grant. The option is exercisable by relevant employees after a period 
of 3 years.
Employee profit sharing scheme
At 31 December 2015 the scheme held 42,370 (2014: 42,370) Ordinary Shares in the Company.
19 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Assets Liabilities
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment – – (11,334) (12,934)
Intangible assets – – (283) (315)
Inventories – – (427) (450)
Employee benefits – – (617) (690)
Equity settled share-based payments 1,316 1,394 – –
Other items – – (964) (577)
Tax assets / (liabilities) 1,316 1,394 (13,625) (14,966)
The 2015 Summer Budget on 8 July 2015 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 18 per cent by 2020. Reductions in the rate 
to 19 per cent (effective April 2017) and 18 per cent (effective April 2020) were substantially enacted, following the receipt of Royal Assent, in 
November 2015. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred taxation liability at 31 December 2015 has 
been calculated based on the rate at which the deferred tax is expected to unwind in the future using rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred taxation liability of £617,000 (2014: £690,000) in relation to employee benefits is in respect of the net surplus for the defined 
benefit obligations of £3,427,000 (2014: £3,449,000 net surplus) (Note 18) calculated at 18 per cent (2014: 20 per cent).
Deferred tax assets on capital losses and overseas trading losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of the losses. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
107
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
19 Deferred taxation continued
Movement in temporary differences
Year ended 31 December 2015
Recognised Recognised
in other in statement
1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes 31 December
2015 in income income in equity 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (12,934) 1,600 – – (11,334)
Intangible assets (315) 32 – – (283)
Inventories (450) 23 – – (427)
Employee benefits (690) (700) 773 – (617)
Equity settled share-based payments 1,394 (73) – (5) 1,316
Impact on other comprehensive income of the 
change in rate of deferred tax 367 – (375) 8 –
Other items (944) 184 (209) 5 (964)
(13,572) 1,066 189 8 (12,309)
Year ended 31 December 2014
Recognised Recognised
in other in statement
1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes 31 December
2014 in income income in equity 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (13,206) 272 – – (12,934)
Intangible assets (335) 20 – – (315)
Inventories (500) 50 – – (450)
Employee benefits 869 (910) (649) – (690)
Equity settled share-based payments 757 177 – 460 1,394
Impact on other comprehensive income of the 
change in rate of deferred tax 367 – – – 367
Other items (1,556) 29 583 – (944)
(13,604) (362) (66) 460 (13,572)
Deferred taxation liabilities represent sums that might become payable as tax in future years as a result of transactions that have occurred 
in the current year. The explanation as to why such liabilities may arise is included in the notes to the tax reconciliation (Note 6).
The deferred tax balances on short-term timing differences are expected to reverse within 1 to 3 years.
Based on the current investment programme of the Group and assuming that current rates of capital allowances on fixed asset expenditure 
continue into the future, there is little prospect of any significant part of the deferred taxation liability of the Company becoming payable over 
the next 3 years. It is not realistic to make any projection after a 3-year period.
The deferred tax liabilities disclosed in the year ended 31 December 2015 include the deferred tax relating to the Group’s pension scheme 
assets. Deferred tax assets on capital losses and overseas trading losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of 
the losses. Financial Statements
108
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
20 Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
Issued and paid up
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
At 1 January and at 31 December 49,845 49,845
Number of 25 pence Ordinary Shares 199,378,755 199,378,755
Consolidation reserve
On 8 July 2004 Marshalls plc was introduced as the new holding company of the Group by way of a court-approved Scheme of Arrangement 
under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985. The restructuring was accounted for as a capital reorganisation and accounting principles were 
applied as if the Company had always been the holding company of the Group. The difference between the aggregate nominal value of the 
new shares issued by the Company and the called-up share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account of Marshalls Group 
plc (the previous holding company) was transferred to a consolidation reserve.
Hedging reserve
This represents the gains and losses arising on derivatives used for cash flow hedging, principally from the Group’s interest rate swaps, energy 
price contracts and forward exchange contracts.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided and there were 
no income tax consequences.
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
4.75 pence final dividend (2014: 4.00 pence) per Ordinary Share 9,470 7,975
2.00 pence supplementary dividend per Ordinary Share 3,988 –
13,458 7,975
21 Non-controlling interests
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Non-controlling interests
At 1 January 1,475 3,295
Share of result for the year (258) (1,634)
Foreign currency transaction differences (78) (186)
At 31 December 1,139 1,475
22 Analysis of net debt
1 January Other 31 December
2015 Cash flow changes 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand 20,320 4,679 (9) 24,990
Debt due after 1 year (50,307) 13,191 991 (36,125)
Finance leases (493) 159 7 (327)
(30,480) 18,029 989 (11,462) Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
109
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22 Analysis of net debt continued
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Net increase in cash equivalents 4,679 2,711
Cash outflow from decrease in debt and lease financing 13,350 1,552
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 989 826
Movement in net debt in the year 19,018 5,089
Net debt at 1 January (30,480) (35,569)
Net debt at 31 December (11,462) (30,480)
23 Operating leases 
The Group had non-cancellable minimum lease payments to be paid in respect of operating leases on property, plant, machinery and vehicles 
as follows:
6 months 6 – 12 More than
Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
31 December 2015 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring:
Within 1 year 336 277 59 – – –
Between 1 and 5 years 21,833 3,768 3,748 6,855 7,462 –
In more than 5 years 51,857 2,767 2,751 5,526 16,740 24,073
74,026 6,812 6,558 12,381 24,202 24,073
6 months 6 – 12 More than
Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
31 December 2014 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring:
Within 1 year 749 564 185 – – –
Between 1 and 5 years 20,252 3,147 3,129 5,647 8,329 –
In more than 5 years 48,806 2,221 2,209 4,429 12,887 27,060
69,807 5,932 5,523 10,076 21,216 27,060
The minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases (above) comprise property of £28,482,000 (2014: £29,134,000) and 
plant, machinery and vehicles of £45,544,000 (2014: £40,673,000).
Certain leased properties have been sublet by the Group. Sublease payments of £89,663 (2014: £89,913) are expected to be received during 
the following financial year. An amount of £89,663 (2014: £121,014) was recognised as income in the Consolidated Income Statement within 
net operating costs in respect of subleases. Financial Statements
1 10
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24 Contingencies
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Group’s cap on self 
insurance for employer’s liability and vehicle insurance:
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2016 Employer’s liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (London Management) Limited £865,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2016 Employer’s liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 31 Oct 2016 Vehicle insurance
25 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel
Other than the Directors, there are no senior managers in the Group who are relevant for establishing that Marshalls has the appropriate 
expertise and experience for the management of its business.
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.0135 per cent (2014: 0.0003 per cent) of the voting shares of the Company. 
In addition to their salaries and pension allowances, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors. Further details in relation to 
Directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
26 Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. The accounting policies are set out in Note 1 on pages 76 to 84. As stated in the 
accounting policies revenue is disclosed net of rebates. The estimation of appropriate accruals for rebates requires commercial assessment.
Note 12 contains details of the Group’s inventory. The carrying value of the Group’s finished goods inventory has been reviewed using 
commercial judgement with regard to the assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
Note 2 contains information about the assumptions and judgements made relating to the identification of operating segments for the Group 
as defined in IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”.
In relation to the Group’s intangible fixed assets (Note 10) impairment tests have been undertaken using commercial judgement and a number 
of assumptions and estimates in relation to relevant trading volumes and margins. These estimates have been determined using the best 
available information derived from a combination of business-specific analysis (both current and historic) and the latest available external 
industry forecasts. Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate 
discount rates in order to calculate present values.
Note 18 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations. 
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined 
following advice received from an independent qualified actuary. Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 18 on page 103.
Note 19 contains details of the Group’s deferred taxation. Liabilities recognised are determined by reference to the likelihood of settlement and 
the likelihood that assets are received is based on assumptions of future actions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 1 1
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Share Capital
Share premium Own redemption Equity Retained Total
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current year
At 1 January 2015 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 2,765 166,436 310,446
Total comprehensive expense for the year 
Loss for the financial year – – – – – (4,410) (4,410)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – – – (4,410) (4,410)
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Share-based payments – – – – 1,359 843 2,202
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – (2) – (2)
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – (12,291) (12,291)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,582) – – – (4,582)
Disposal of own shares – – 5,742 – – (5,742) –
Total contributions by and distributions to owners – – 1,160 – 1,357 (17,190) (14,673)
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – 1,160 – 1,357 (21,600) (19,083)
At 31 December 2015 49,845 22,695 (5,529) 75,394 4,122 144,836 291,363
There were no items of other comprehensive income / (expense) in the year other than the loss for the financial year recorded above.
Share Capital
Share premium Own redemption Equity Retained Total
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Prior year
At 1 January 2014 (restated) 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 1,595 187,803 327,820
Total comprehensive expense for the year
Loss for the financial year – – – – – (4,908) (4,908)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – – – (4,908) (4,908)
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Share-based payments – – – – 1,075 1,421 2,496
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – 95 – 95
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – (10,791) (10,791)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,266) – – – (4,266)
Disposal of own shares – – 7,089 – – (7,089) –
Total contributions by and distributions to owners – – 2,823 – 1,170 (16,459) (12,466)
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – 2,823 – 1,170 (21,367) (17,374)
At 31 December 2014 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 2,765 166,436 310,446
There were no items of other comprehensive income / (expense) in the year other than the loss for the financial year recorded above.
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Financial Statements
1 12
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015 2014
Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments 30 342,312 340,953
Deferred taxation assets 31 698 806
343,010 341,759
Current assets
Debtors 32 1,182 1,343
Current liabilities
Creditors 33 (52,829) (32,656)
Net current liabilities (51,647) (31,313)
Net assets 291,363 310,446
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 34 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 22,695 22,695
Own shares (5,529) (6,689)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 75,394
Equity reserve 4,122 2,765
Profit and loss account 144,836 166,436
Equity shareholders’ funds 291,363 310,446
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 11 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board:
Martyn Coffey  Jack Clarke
Chief Executive  Finance Director
The Notes on pages 113 to 118 form part of these Company Financial Statements.
   
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 13
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27 Accounting policies
The following paragraphs summarise the main accounting policies of the Company, which have been applied consistently in dealing with 
items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s Financial Statements. The Company is exempt from the requirement to give 
its own disclosures as the entity forms part of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Marshalls plc which has included disclosures under 
IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
(a) Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with FRS 101
The Parent Company Financial Statements of Marshalls plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
Directors on 11 March 2016. Marshalls plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England 
and Wales. The Company’s Ordinary Shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Company is not under the control of 
any single shareholder.
These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (“FRS 101”).
No profit or loss is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
(b) Basis of preparation
The Company has adopted FRS 101 from the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In these Financial Statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
 — the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 – 52 of IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments”;
 — the requirement of IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”;
 — the requirement of paragraphs 91 – 99 of IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”;
 —  the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” to present comparative information in respect of: 
paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
 — the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f ), 16, 39(c), 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 – 136 of IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”;
 — the requirements of IAS 7 “Statement of Cash Flows”;
 — the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors”;
 — the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”;
 — the requirements in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures” to disclose related party transactions entered into between 2 or more members 
of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and
 — the requirements of paragraphs 134(d) – 134(f ) and 135(c) – 135(e) of IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”.
(c) Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment. The Directors consider annually whether 
a provision against the value of investments on an individual basis is required. 
(d) Share capital
(i) Share capital
Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Company’s 
option. Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity. Non-equity share capital is classified as 
a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
thereon are recognised in the Income Statement as a financial expense.
(ii) Dividends 
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis. Equity dividends are recognised as a 
liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company).
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Financial Statements
1 14
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27 Accounting policies continued
(e) Pension schemes
(i) Defined benefit scheme 
The Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The defined benefit section of 
the Scheme was closed to future service accrual in July 2006.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The defined benefit cost and contributions payable are borne by 
Marshalls Group Limited and, therefore, the defined benefit surplus or deficit is recorded in Marshalls Group Limited. Full details are provided 
in Note 18 on pages 99 to 103.
(ii) Defined contribution scheme
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
(f) Share-based payment transactions
The Company enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees. In particular, annual awards are made 
to employees under the Company’s Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) and, in previous years, the Performance Incentive Plan (“PIP”) 
and the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”).
These schemes allow employees to acquire shares in Marshalls plc. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to the options. Where appropriate, the fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes 
option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to 
be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and 
non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting. A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on 
the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
(g) Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases 
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(h) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount (discounted if material).
(i) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 15
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28 Operating costs
The audit fee for the Company was £20,000 (2014: £20,000). This is in respect of the audit of the Financial Statements. Fees paid to the 
Company’s auditor for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in the Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements since the consolidated accounts of the Group are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans and Directors’ pension entitlements are disclosed on pages 46 to 60 
of the Annual Remuneration Report.
29 Ordinary dividends: equity shares
2015 2014
pence per share £’000 pence per share £’000
2014 final: paid 3 July 2015 4.00p 7,866 3.50p 6,867
2015 interim: paid 4 December 2015 2.25p 4,425 2.00p 3,924
6.25p 12,291 5.50p 10,791
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided and there were 
no income tax consequences.
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
2015 final: 4.75 pence (2014: 4.00 pence) per Ordinary Share 9,470 7,975
2015 supplementary: 2.00 pence per Ordinary Share 3,988 –
13,458 7,975
30 Investments
£’000
At 1 January 2015 340,953
Additions 1,359
At 31 December 2015 342,312
Investments comprise shares in the subsidiary undertaking, Marshalls Group Limited. The Directors have considered the carrying value of the 
Company’s investments and are satisfied that no provision is required.
The increase in the year of £1,359 represents adjustments to the number of shares expected to vest in respect of share-based payment awards 
granted to employees of Marshalls Group Limited.
Pursuant to Sections 409 and 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006, the principal subsidiary undertakings of Marshalls plc at 31 December 2015 
are set out below. With the exception of Marshalls NV, Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited, Marshalls Landscape Products (North 
America) Inc. and Marshalls Landscape Products FZE, all the companies operate within the United Kingdom and are registered in England and 
Wales. Marshalls NV is registered in Belgium. Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited is registered in China, Marshalls Landscape 
Products (North America) Inc. is registered in the USA and Marshalls Landscape Products FZE is registered in Dubai.
Subsidiaries Principal activities Class of share % ownership
Alton Glasshouses Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Bollards Direct Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Capability Brown Garden Centres Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Capability Brown Landscaping Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Classical Flagstones Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Dalestone Concrete Products Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Locharbriggs Sandstone Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Lloyds Quarries Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Building Materials Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Building Products Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Concrete Products Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100 Financial Statements
1 16
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
30 Investments continued
Subsidiaries Principal activities Class of share % ownership
Marshalls Directors Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Dormant No. 30 Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Dormant No. 31 Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls EBT Limited* Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Estates Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Group Limited* Intermediate holding company Ordinary 100
Marshalls Landscape Products Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Landscape Products FZE Landscape products supplier Ordinary 100
Marshalls Landscape Products (North America) Inc. Landscape products supplier Ordinary 100
Marshalls Mono Limited Landscape products manufacturer and supplier and 
quarry owner supplying a wide variety of paving, 
street furniture and natural stone products
Ordinary 100
Marshalls Natural Stone Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls NV Landscape products manufacturer and supplier Ordinary 66.7
Marshalls Profit Sharing Scheme Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Properties Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Register Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Stone Products Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Marshalls Street Furniture Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Ollerton Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Panablok (UK) Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Paver Systems (Carluke) Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Paver Systems Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Premier Mortars Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Quarryfill Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Rhino Protec Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Robinson Associates Stone Consultants Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Robinsons Greenhouses Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Rockrite Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
S Marshall & Sons Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Scenic Blue Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Scenic Blue Landscape Franchise Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Scenic Blue (UK) Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Stancliffe Stone Company Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Stoke Hall Quarry Limited* Non-trading Ordinary 100
Stone Shippers Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Stonemarket (Concrete) Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Stonemarket Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
The Great British Bollard Company Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
The Stancliffe Group Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
The Yorkshire Brick Co. Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Town & Country Paving Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Urban Engineering Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Woodhouse Group Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Woodhouse UK Limited Non-trading Ordinary 100
Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited Sourcing and distribution of natural stone products Ordinary 100
* Held by Marshalls plc. All others held by subsidiary undertakings. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 17
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30 Investments continued
Marshalls NV is largely dependent on the continued support of Marshalls Mono Limited, which has indicated that it intends to continue 
providing this support for the foreseeable future.
31 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
2015 2014 2015 2014
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equity settled share-based payments 698 806 – –
Movement in temporary differences
Recognised
in other
1 January Recognised comprehensive 31 December
2015 in income income 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Year ended 31 December 2015
Equity settled share-based payments 806 (106) (2) 698
32 Debtors
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Corporation tax 1,182 1,343
No debtors were due after more than 1 year.
33 Creditors
2015 2014
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 52,829 32,656
34 Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
As at 31 December 2015, the issued and fully paid up share capital was as follows:
Issued and paid up
2015 nominal 2014 nominal
2015 value 2014 value
Number £’000 Number £’000
At 31 December 199,378,755 49,845 199,378,755 49,845
Equity reserve
The equity reserve represents the number of shares expected to vest in respect of share-based payment awards granted to employees of the Company.
35 Capital and leasing commitments
The Company had no capital or leasing commitments at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
36 Bank facilities
The Group’s banking arrangements are in respect of Marshalls plc, Marshalls Group Limited and Marshalls Mono Limited with each company 
being nominated borrowers. The operational banking activities of the Group are undertaken by Marshalls Group Limited and the Group’s bank 
debt is largely included in Marshalls Group Limited’s balance sheet. Financial Statements
1 18
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
37 Contingent liabilities
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Group’s cap on self 
insurance for employer’s liability and vehicle insurance.
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2016 Employer’s liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (London Management) Limited £865,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2016 Employer’s liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 31 Oct 2016 Vehicle insurance
38 Pension scheme
The Company is the sponsoring employer of the Marshalls plc pension scheme (the “Scheme”) which has both a defined benefit and a defined 
contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held in separately managed funds which are independent of the Group’s finances. 
Full details of the Scheme are provided in Note 18. The Company is unable to identify its share of the Scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent 
and reasonable basis.
The latest funding valuation of the defined benefit section of the Scheme was carried out as at 5 April 2015 and was updated for the purposes 
of the 31 December 2015 Financial Statements by a qualified independent actuary. Active employees are members of the defined contribution 
section of the Scheme, which invests funds in which the contributions for each individual member are separately identifiable and the benefits 
calculated accordingly.
39 Accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these 
judgements and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are disclosed below.
Note 18 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations. 
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined 
following advice received from an independent qualified actuary. Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 18 on page 103.
Note 31 contains details of the Company’s deferred taxation. Liabilities recognised are determined by reference to the likelihood of settlement 
and the likelihood that assets are received is based on assumptions of future actions.
40 Related parties
Related party relationships exist with other members of the Group. All operating costs are borne by Marshalls Group Limited and are recharged 
to Marshalls plc in respect of specifically attributable costs. All related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail 
in arm’s length transactions. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 19
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Year to 
31 December 2011*
Year to
31 December 2012*
,
**
Year to
31 December 2013*
Year to
31 December 2014
Year to
31 December 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Consolidated Income Statement 
Revenue 325,112 300,938 307,390 358,516 386,204
Net operating costs (310,117) (288,087) (291,300) (333,211) (348,752)
Operating profit (before operational restructuring 
and works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments) 14,995 12,851 16,090 25,305 37,452
Operational restructuring and works closure costs, 
goodwill and intangible asset impairments – (21,521) – – –
Operating profit / (loss) 14,995 (8,670) 16,090 25,305 37,452
Financial income and expenses (net) (3,007) (3,578) (3,064) (2,884) (2,174)
Profit before tax (before operational restructuring 
and works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments) 11,988 9,273 13,026 22,421 35,278
Profit / (loss) before tax 11,988 (12,248) 13,026 22,421 35,278
Income tax (expense) / credit (1,071) 5,874 (67) (4,198) (7,387)
Profit / (loss) for the financial year before post-tax 
profit / (loss) of discontinued operations 10,917 (6,374) 12,959 18,223 27,891
Post-tax (loss) / profit of discontinued operations (3,661) 676 503 – –
Profit / (loss) for the financial year 7,256 (5,698) 13,462 18,223 27,891
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Parent 7,390 (5,684) 14,096 19,857 28,149
Non-controlling interests (134) (14) (634) (1,634) (258)
7,256 (5,698) 13,462 18,223 27,891
EBITA 16,174 (7,423) 17,028 26,536 38,774
EBITDA 32,413 6,538 30,227 38,518 51,828
EBITA before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments 16,174 14,098** 17,028 26,536 38,774
EBITDA before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments 32,413 28,059** 30,227 38,518 51,828
Earnings per share (pence):
Basic (continuing operations) 5.66 (3.26) 6.94 10.13 14.32
Basic (total operations) 3.78 (2.91) 7.20 10.13 14.32
Basic continuing operations (before operational 
restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill  
and intangible asset impairments) 5.66 5.52** 6.94 10.13 14.32
Dividends per share (pence) – IFRS 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.50 6.25
Dividend cover (times) – IFRS (continuing) 1.1 1.1** 1.3 1.8 2.3
Dividends per share (pence) – traditional 5.25 5.25 5.25 6.00 7.00
Dividends per share (pence) – supplementary – – – – 2.00
Dividend cover (times) – traditional (continuing) 1.1 1.1** 1.3 1.7 2.0
Year-end share price (pence) 90.5 97.5 176.25 234.0 325.0
Tax rate (%) 8.9 (16.3)** 0.5 18.7 20.9
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations.
** Before operational restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
Financial History – Consolidated Group Financial Statements
120
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Non-current assets 249,271 225,882 198,082 195,951 192,815
Current assets 128,640 116,735 120,832 132,593 137,017
Total assets 377,911 342,617 318,914 328,544 329,832
Current liabilities (88,550) (64,440) (74,137) (80,969) (87,071)
Non-current liabilities (83,297) (94,603) (69,345) (65,681) (50,043)
Net assets 206,064 183,574 175,432 181,894 192,718
Net borrowings (77,101) (63,543) (35,569) (30,480) (11,462)
Gearing ratio 37.4% 34.6% 20.3% 16.8% 6.0%
Financial History – Consolidated Group continued Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Shareholder analysis at 31 December 2015
Number of Number of
Size of shareholding shareholders % Ordinary Shares %
1 to 500 1,900 41.88 276,233 0.14
501 to 1,000 553 12.19 420,043 0.21
1,001 to 2,500 717 15.80 1,226,199 0.62
2,501 to 5,000 510 11.24 1,821,249 0.91
5,001 to 10,000 332 7.32 2,380,354 1.19
10,001 to 25,000 190 4.19 3,012,831 1.51
25,001 to 100,000 161 3.55 8,453,382 4.24
100,001 to 250,000 69 1.52 10,568,774 5.30
250,001 to 500,000 34 0.75 12,574,807 6.31
500,001 and above 71 1.56 158,644,883 79.57
4,537 100.00 199,378,755 100.00
Financial calendar
Preliminary announcement of results for the year ended 31 December 2015 Announced  11 March 2016
Annual General Meeting        18 May 2016
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015    Payable  8 July 2016
Half-yearly results for the year ending 31 December 2016   Announcement  26 August 2016
Half-yearly dividend for the year ending 31 December 2016   Payable   6 December 2016
Results for the year ending 31 December 2016    Announcement  Early March 2017
Shareholder Information
Advisers
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt 
Numis Securities Limited
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Legal advisers
Herbert Smith LLP
Eversheds LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP
Financial advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Shareholders’ enquiries should be addressed to the Registrars at the 
above address (tel: 0870 707 1134).
Registered office
Landscape House
Premier Way, 
Lowfields Business Park, Elland, 
Halifax HX5 9HT
West Yorkshire
Telephone: 01422 312000
Website: www.marshalls.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales: No. 5100353 Marshalls plc, Landscape House, 
Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, 
Elland HX5 9HT
The Group's commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this 
Annual Report which has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin which is 
a mixed source FSC® certified and ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) material. 
This is a certified CarbonNeutral® publication. Printed in the UK by Park 
Communications, using their environmental printing technology; 
vegetable inks were used throughout. Both the manufacturing mill and the 
printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 
and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. 
